# Site: https://www.port.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk:
Search suggestions update instantly to match the search query.
Rooms from £110 per week, en-suite rooms from £131 per week
Unlock your potential with a Master's
If you have your results, you can apply now to start in September 2025.
Apply now through Clearing
Opening times: Monday - Thursday 9am-5pm, Friday 9am-4pm
023 9284 8090
Find your new home in our affordable city by the sea
Discover more reasons to choose Portsmouth
Weigh up the pros and pros of Portsmouth’s unique Connected Degrees.
Pro: 3 years with friends.
Pro: Explore more options.
Pro: Launch your career.
It’s all win.
Find your Connected Degree
Onscreen text reads:
Introducing Connected Degrees.
3 year course with a 4th year placement.
Connect your course directly to your future career.
Portsmouth is the only UK university to give students this option.
Traditional unis only offer a placement in your 3rd year.
At Portsmouth, you can prioritise what matters to you.
Career-ready
Take the extra time to find your perfect placement.
Community
Stay with the same friends throughout your studies.
Support
Glide into professional life with full university support.
Flexibility
If you prefer, you can still choose a 3rd year placement.
You’ll graduate at the end of your 4th year, whether it’s study or placement.
UK students can start a Connected Degree from September 2024.
Connect your degree to your ambitions at Portsmouth.
Explore the UK’s only 3 year course with 4th year placement.
Discover Connected Degrees.
Some of our Postgraduate courses are in Clearing, and our London Campus courses
info@port.ac.uk
london@port.ac.uk
+44 (0)23 9284 8484
The phone line is open Monday–Thursday 8.30am–5.15pm, Friday 8.30am–4.15pm.
University House Winston Churchill Avenue Portsmouth Hampshire PO1 2UP United Kingdom
Juniper House 221 Hoe Street Walthamstow London E17 9PH United Kingdom
© 2025 University of Portsmouth

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/clearing:
If you have your results, you can apply directly to us now to start in September 2025.
Apply through Clearing and you'll be offered a guaranteed room in halls if you accept your offer within 24 hours of receiving it and apply for accommodation as a new full-time undergraduate student by 5pm Wednesday 3 September.
We have a variety of affordable accommodation options with en-suite halls from £131 per week.
View our halls
Clearing gives you another opportunity to find the best course for you - whether you've changed your mind, your results surprised you, or you're just starting to think about going to university.
Clearing at Portsmouth could be the perfect option.
Nana
I'm really glad that I applied for Clearing.
It definitely paid off.
Cristina
Clearing is a process of applying to university after the deadline for applying for your uni.
So if you decide to change your course or to change your university, Clearing is how you can get into those universities.
Jess
I had originally applied to Portsmouth to do Sociology with Criminology, and then decided the course probably wasn't for me.
So very, very last minute I decided in the summer that I wanted to switch courses and I found International Development and then it was too late to change through the normal application process, so I decided, well, the only option was to go through Clearing.
It was very nerve-wracking.
I was afraid that I'd end up with nothing.
However, that definitely wasn't the case and there was so much support and information online that was given to me.
So it was quite straightforward.
It wasn't difficult or scary at all.
It was surprisingly super, super easy.
I was put in touch with my course leader and it was all sorted within the hour, basically, after results.
Senura
The first thing I would say to somebody applying through Clearing is, don't panic.
Fatima
Keep positive and less worried when applying to the Clearing process.
It's actually very quick and very easy.
Literally, the whole process of Clearing took me less than 24 hours.
Max
Whether it's enrolling you to a course that you wanted or even just providing information for you, the Clearing team will always have your back.
I definitely recommend anyone that's worried to just go with their instinct and do it.
I'm really happy with the choice I've made.
Things don't go according to plan on purpose and it happens for the best.
I felt relieved knowing I’d gotten what I wanted and my dream was about to come true.
See what grades you need to get into your preferred course at Portsmouth.
Use UCAS points calculator
Only Portsmouth has Connected Degrees.
3 year course, 4th year placement
If you’re wondering about how to prepare for Clearing, then follow our Clearing checklist to ensure a stress free process.
30 June 2025
Want a step-by-step guide on how to apply through Clearing?
We’ve got you covered!
20 April 2025
Here’s everything you need to know about accepting your Clearing offer.
14 August 2025
You can apply through Clearing if:
Find out more on UCAS
+44 (0)23 9284 8090
Phoneline opening times
Monday - Thursday 9am - 5pm
Friday 9am - 4pm
You can apply online 24/7.
After we make you an offer we'll send you a confirmation email.
This email will let you know what you need to do next and it will tell you what you need to provide us.
In some instances we may ask you to send us copies of certificates or other information.
If you've previously applied through UCAS you'll need to use your UCAS Hub to accept our offer by adding us as your Clearing choice.
If you're having issues, please contact us on +44 (0)23 9284 8090 or admissions@port.ac.uk
Once you've accepted your Clearing course offer, we'll be in touch with details of available accommodation in the area.
This will include our latest hall availability and support to find local rented accommodation via portsmouthstudentpad.co.uk
See our accommodation page for more information.
Yes, our four career-focused undergraduate courses at our growing London campus are available to apply for through Clearing.
Find out more about our London campus
No, it's not too late and you should make your application for student finance as soon as possible.
You don't have to wait for your results.
You can make your application now and just amend it when you know where you're going to be.
If you've already applied for your student loan, you'll need to log into your account and update details about your new course/university.
If you haven't applied for your student loan yet, don't panic.
Apply today – it only takes 30 minutes.
Find out more in our Student finance for Clearing guide .
If you're an EU or international student and you need a visa to study here, you need to start the process quickly as visas can take some time to come through.
Get in touch with our visa support team if you have a question or problem.
See more on visa advice.
If you would like further information or guidance, please contact our international office .
You are welcome to apply for our courses in Clearing, please use the International apply form found on each course page.
See courses in Clearing.
Please note that 2025 applications for the medical degree have now closed and it will not be in Clearing.
If you have any questions, contact us at medicalschoolenquiries@port.ac.uk
Please be advised that not all courses will enter Clearing and some may only have limited spaces, so it's advisable to call our Clearing Hotline to check the latest vacancies on 023 9284 8090 .
Portsmouth is the only UK uni to offer a 3 year course with 4th year placement.
Discover more about Connected Degrees.
There are plenty of great reasons to choose Portsmouth for your university adventure – here are some of the best.
Explore our island city and its many attractions, and find out what student life is really like at the University.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study:
You won’t find them anywhere else
No matter what you're interested in, we'll help you find a Master's or taught course that suits your needs and aspirations.
Get to know us better at our next on campus Postgraduate Open Day, talk to our course and research representatives, expert support teams and current students.
Applying for a postgraduate course is easy with our handy checklist.
Find out more now.
Browse research degree types, find a pre-approved PhD project, explore our research subject areas, and discover your funding options.
Look through our funded and self-funded PhD research projects and find out how to apply.
Take your career to the next level without leaving your job.
Explore our full-time and part-time Learning at Work degrees and degree apprenticeships.
Everything you need to know about distance learning, including how it works and how to prepare for studying online.
On-campus, work-based or distance learning – explore our short and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses, and find out how they can help you take your own career or business forward.
Discover how you could join students from more than 150 countries in Portsmouth, and get all the information you need to apply for a degree course with us, wherever in the world you may be.
University is about more than your studies.
Whether you're a foodie, sports fan, or music lover, Portsmouth student life has something for you.
Got a question to ask?
We're on hand to help and give you the answers you need: whether you're curious about how and when to apply for a course, or want to know where we are and how to get here.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses:
Search results update instantly to match the search query and any filters applied.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Only at Portsmouth
Did you know: Portsmouth is one of the most affordable cities in the UK for university students to live and study.
( 2023, source University Living )
Take a look at where you'll stay when you study at Portsmouth, how much it'll cost, and what you'll get for your money – plus where to get housing support and how to get a guaranteed room in our halls.
Read our guide to undergraduate student finance & learn about tuition fees, student loans, scholarships bursaries, support for disabled students and more.
We're the UK's only island city and life as a student in Portsmouth is unbeatable.
We’ve got beaches, great places to eat, heaps of independent shops and music venues, cultural and artistic hotspots, and stacks of green space to enjoy.
I think Portsmouth is very forward thinking.
It's got such a really friendly atmosphere and even though it's a city, it’s quite a small city, so it feels really welcoming and homely.
When I first came to the open day for Portsmouth, I instantly fell in love with it.
When the sun is shining, there is nowhere better than Portsmouth.
Welcome to Portsmouth, the UK's only island city and home to the University of Portsmouth.
Join us today as we show you some of our favourite spots so you can take advantage of studying at the heart of our community.
It's a very cosmopolitan city, it's got so much to offer.
You have the commercial road, you have the city centre ar the heart where it's all lively.
Student nightlife is really, really good.
You’ve got lots of nightclubs, lots of stuff to do.
But then as soon as you come to Southsea it’s more of a lazy seaside town, you get to go to the beach.
You just have to go down to the beach or the common on a sunny day and everyone's having picnics.
It's just beautiful.
Fuelling up for the day, you’re absolutely spoilt for choice.
Everyone I know has a different favourite café spot.
We’ve got you covered for freshly roasted coffee, doughnuts, fish and chips, vegan food and artisan bread.
And that’s before we even get to the restaurants and bars.
Cheers.
Okay, shopping.
I love to shop local myself and the top spots for that are Palmerston Road, Marmion Road or here, Castle Road.
Commercial Road has you set for your shopping essentials.
Or pop down to Southsea for charity shop bargains and quirky independent businesses to browse for something unique.
Or join us in Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth's Waterfront Shopping Centre to check in on your favourite brand outlets or catch the lights at Christmas.
I love that kind of vibrancy of the city
It's got a real independent spirit about it.
I think it's got a really good mix of independent businesses.
There are so many local independent businesses.
There are entertainment activities in terms of lots of bars and restaurants and loads of cool places to eat.
There's so much to do right here in the place you live.
There's an island’s worth of beautiful coast to explore and unique green spaces like Canoe Lake and the Rose Garden to enjoy with your friends or by yourself as a space for study or reflection.
Or for something a little different, you could wander into an art gallery, try an escape room, or book a table with your friends at DICE, the local board game café.
And don't forget the nights.
There's a ton of live music events happening every week as well as karaoke comedy nights and live theatre.
There are lots of cultural events, art galleries, music venues.
And there are so many shows.
You've got kite festivals.
Food festivals.
The big one that really helps the town is Victorious Festival.
It is such a really lovely community.
And I think after you've been here a while, you feel part of the community.
It just makes you feel like you're at home away from home.
Portsmouth is a one of a kind place, a place for you to explore and thrive.
There's something for everyone here, and we can't wait for you to be part of it.
To find out more about our city, book an open day and get exploring, visit www.port.ac.uk.
How to apply
After you apply
UCAS points calculator

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught:
A postgraduate taught degree is a great way to take your knowledge, expertise and skills to the next level.
Search all Postgraduate courses
Discover flexible study options
Explore Master's funding options, including loans, scholarships, bursaries and more.
From primary to further education, see the teaching PGCEs and teacher training degrees and courses we offer, learn more about how to fund your teacher training, and start your application.
Hear from current Master's students, what they consider to be the main motivators for, and benefits of studying a Master's degree.
Students should do a master’s because I feel like it's just another opportunity to learn even more and to go deeper into your area of interest.
The masters set me up for getting a higher level job after graduation, mainly due to modules that I wouldn't have otherwise learnt and their really good employability skills.
Most of the time when you go to the job market, they will always want to see what you've done, when it comes to academic education.
Being able to make yourself stand out from the crowd by not only having your bachelor's, you've also got a master's.
You've demonstrated that deeper level of learning.
You become a subject expert in your field.
You've proven that you can project manage on your own.
You've gone the extra mile.
The first time I came into the University of Portsmouth, it gave me a feeling like I was already in the industry.
I get a chance to meet mentors.
I get a chance to meet professionals and and I get a chance to learn a lot and the university itself offers a lot of opportunities for students to work on themselves and also improve themselves professionally and socially.
Since I struggle with dyslexia and dyspraxia, the University of Portsmouth can offer you so much support not just in dyslexia but with other disabilities as well.
I've received support from my course leader, from my tutors, and any question that I have has always been answered.
I really truly believe that doing a master's qualification has enabled me to have the job that I actually wanted and to get as far as I have done.
If you'd like to find out more about postgraduate study, you can come along to one of our open evenings.
There's a wealth of information on our website.
Are you a current Portsmouth undergraduate student considering a Master's?
Fast Track your application
Got a question?
Get in touch and we'll be happy to help.
Contact us
Order your digital degree guide.
Request a copy

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Ready to make a contribution to our outstanding research work?
Explore our postgraduate research options
A postgraduate research degree, or PhD, is perfect if you'd like to play your part in tackling challenges and learn from people at the forefront of their disciplines.
Discover our research subject areas
Explore our PhD projects
A research degree at Portsmouth is your chance to put your knowledge to work, and help find solutions to the problems facing society.
Find out about our PhD, PhD by Publication, Professional Doctorates, MD, MPhil and MRes degrees.
Read our guide on how to complete and submit your postgraduate research application.
Take the next step in your academic career today.
Explore funded PhD projects across a range of subject areas.
If you've already got your own research idea, start looking for a supervisor whose research interests match yours.
Find out how you can fund your postgraduate research project, with options including loans, bursaries, and scholarships.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area:
If you're unsure which degree to do at university, but you have a general idea which area you'd like to study, take a look at our subject area pages to see if we have a course in that area that piques your interest.
Each page gives an overview of what's covered in the area and the undergraduate and postgraduate courses we run.
Still not sure which degree to study at university?
Search all our degrees to find the right course for you.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/connected-degrees:
Connect your course directly to your future career
Explore courses with flexible placement options that connect you to the workplace, whenever you're ready.
Browse Connected Degrees
Explore our unique Connected Degrees and get a taste for undergrad life in Portsmouth.
Book now
Most of our full-time undergraduate courses offer you the flexibility to choose when to take your placement: either before your final year or after you’ve completed your degree.
Known as Connected Degrees, this unique option puts you in control of your university experience.
Portsmouth is the only UK university offering this innovative approach to optional work placements, allowing you to pursue real-world work experience at the time that best suits your personal and career goals.
This is only available for students starting their full-time undergraduate degree from September 2024 onwards.
We’re now the highest-ranked university in our region and one of the best in the UK for work experience opportunities - as rated by our own students.
Read more
We'll help you find the best work placement for your studies, and connect you with businesses who partner with us like multinational pharmaceutical companies, national health trusts, national sports clubs and schools across the UK.
Find out more about placements

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/london-campus:
Career-focused courses at our purpose build London campus
At the University of Portsmouth London, you'll enjoy career-focused courses, real-world experiences, flexible learning, state-of-the-art facilities, the vibrant London life, and have access to our seaside campus resources.
A visual summary video of various shots of the new University of Portsmouth London Campus, showcasing the teaching facilities, current students learning and the local area of Waltham Forest.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-online-by-distance-learning:
Everything you need to know about studying a degree online through distance learning
Studying a course online means you study at a location that suits you, at a time that fits with your schedule and other commitments.
On most online courses, all you need is a computer or tablet with Internet access, and you're good to go.
You get a similar level of support as campus-based students, with interactive digital course material, and streamed lectures and seminars on some courses.
Plus access to teaching, support staff and a personal tutor via email, phone and video calls.
At the end of your course, you'll graduate with a respected and recognised qualification with similar skills as students who study on campus.
You can choose from more than 30 online distance learning courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Online degrees and distance learning courses work like any other course, it's just that everything takes place online.
Instead of heading to lecture halls, you attend online lectures and seminars, or get access to interactive reading material you can read in your own time.
Discussion forums and online chat sessions give you a place to connect with lecturers and peers.
Before you apply for an online course, you need to check you meet the entry requirements.
These are on each course page.
We judge each application on its own merit so you don't necessarily need formal educational qualifications.
If you have university-level knowledge, skills and experience, you can use recognition of prior learning (RPL) to convert this into credits you can put towards a qualification.
This means you can start your course at the appropriate level and reduce the amount of credits you need to study to gain a qualification.
As with campus-based courses, coursework, assignments and support from lecturers and staff is available in a virtual learning environment (VLE).
On our VLE, each course module has its own section where you'll find key reading, research papers and reports, and video and audio resources.
A big difference with studying online compared to being on campus is there are fewer or no exams.
Most assessments are submission based – usually essays, reports and blogs.
Some courses may have quizzes or presentations, which you can do remotely.
You can usually test your skills and knowledge informally and get feedback before you do assessments that count towards your final mark.
See course pages for information on how you'll be assessed on specific distance learning courses.
You usually don't need to attend campus when you're studying a course online, but you're welcome to visit and use our facilities if you can get to Portsmouth.
Some of our online degrees include induction days and study events on campus.
These are optional.
You'll have access to the University Library 's extensive electronic library and services for distance learners.
This includes book loans by post for students based in the UK and Ireland and a scanning service, which means we can email you copies of journal articles and book chapters.
Faculty Learning Support Tutors offer subject-specific help.
And, there's IT support if you have questions about working online or accessing course materials remotely.
If you're new to academia or returning to study after a break, you'll get the support you need to make the transition to university-level learning.
Although you're based off campus, you still get access to learning and academic support and health and wellbeing support via email, phone, online chat or video call.
As a distance learning student, there are 3 types of loans you may be eligible for – tuition fee and maintenance loans for undergraduates and the Master's Loan.
A tuition fee loan covers your course tuition fees if you're a UK or EU student.
It's paid directly to the University.
You can get a tuition fee loan if you’re studying at least 25% of a full-time course (30 credits a year).
Ask us if you’re not sure how many credits you’re studying.
A maintenance loan helps cover your living costs, up to £9,706 a year on full-time courses.
It’s paid directly into your bank account in 3 instalments throughout the year.
As a distance learner on a part-time course, you can only apply for a maintenance loan if you can't attend your course in person due to a disability.
Maintenance loans aren't available to non-UK students.
More about undergraduate student loans
If you're studying an online Master's course that's worth at least 180 credits, you could get a Master's Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
To be eligible, you need to be living in England on the first day of the first academic year of your course.
If you're a non-UK EU student, you also need to live in England for the duration of your course.
If you're a non-UK and non-EU student, you need to live in the UK for the duration of your course.
If you or your spouse or civil partner are serving in the armed forces, or you're a dependent parent living with a serving member of the armed forces, it usually doesn't matter where you live.
More about funding a Master's degree
There are several advantages to studying online by distance learning instead of completing a campus-based course:
A key advantage of this course is the fact that it is distance learning, and as such, it is incredibly flexible.
This appealed as I was able to move back home with my parents and work part-time alongside the course.
The online library services are great and easy to use.
It has additional services and advice especially for distance learners, so you don’t miss not being on campus.
Katie L Ward, MA Translation Studies
Whether you're unfamiliar with studying online or you're returning to study after a long break, there are a few things you can do to prepare yourself for studying online by distance learning.
When you're a distance learner it's important to stay connected with other people while you're studying.
Talk to your work colleagues, family and friends about your goals and how you're doing.
Share your achievements, and don't be afraid to talk about your challenges.
Find a study partner you can sit down and have a session with – virtually or face-to-face.
And, make use of VLE forums and course chat sessions, which are usually scheduled at times when most people can join in – often in the evenings.
Set up a personal go-to space that gets you in a study mindset.
Create a coursework and study calendar to manage your workload.
You can study from anywhere as long as you have a suitable Internet-connected device.
You can chip away at your studies at the local library, a coffee shop or on the train.
A tablet or phone is handy if you have 'dead time' during your daily commute or break times to read over coursework and pre-downloaded PDFs.
Using cloud-based programs like Google Docs or Microsoft OneNote lets you edit and update your work across all your devices.
Unless you're comfortable typing on a screen, we recommend you have access to a device that has a keyboard so you can complete assignments easily.
If your course needs a specific device or software, we'll let you know before you apply.
Explore our tips for studying online .
Online seminars and chat sessions are usually recorded, and forum posts are always there for you to see.
So if you can't make it to an online learning event, you're still able to catch up.
Online undergraduate degrees
Online Master's degrees
PhD Distance Learning Support
Admissions
+44 (0) 23 9284 5566
Get a feel for life on campus without leaving home.
Discover panoramic views of the campus, watch course webinars, look at accommodation, browse facilities like labs, workshops and studios, explore our leisure facilities and more.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days:
Plus other ways to meet us
In Portsmouth, the beach is right here, just a stone's throw from your halls, the library and our lecture theatres.
You'll find a warm welcome at Portsmouth.
At our London Campus, you'll enjoy state-of-the-art facilities, the vibrant London life, and have access to our seaside campus resources.
Join us 6 September, 12 October, 8 November, 6 December
Get to know us better at one of our events, talk to our course and research representatives, expert support teams and current students.
Whether you visit us by rail, road or sea – save on travel with up to 50% off
Discover what you can save
Book your place at one of our UoP London Open Days to engage with our passionate academics and explore our brand new campus building in London.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/virtual-experiences:
Find out more about undergraduate and postgraduate life at the University of Portsmouth with our virtual experience
Wherever you are in the world, you can put yourself in Portsmouth with our virtual experience.
Explore a virtual day in the life of a Portsmouth student, tour our accommodation, discover our island city and experience your subject.
Take the virtual experience
Share

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses-january:
Browse our courses starting in January at undergraduate or postgraduate level, with flexible study options to suit you
The new year is a great time to set off on the path towards your next qualification – if you're not ready to start a course this autumn, you can start many of our courses in January.
Take a look at our postgraduate January start courses below, or jump to our undergraduate courses starting in January .
Here you'll find our January start postgraduate courses.
You can browse all postgraduate courses with a January start in one list, or narrow them down depending on how you'd like to study - from part-time to online by distance learning, courses you learn at work to those open to international students.
Once you've found the right January start course, why not book an Open Evening to learn more about postgraduate study with us?
Find your undergraduate course with a January start here.
Choose to view all January start undergraduate courses in one place, or browse by how you'd like to study - from part-time to online by distance learning, Top-Up courses to Learning at Work.
Decided on the January start course for you or simply keen to learn more about us?
Come and see us at an Open Day to see yourself at Portsmouth.
Choose to explore our postgraduate research courses, or view our courses that start in February, March, April, May or June.
Our postgraduate research courses start in February, April and October.
Explore our research subject areas
Courses starting in February Courses starting in March
Courses starting in April Courses starting in May
Courses starting in June

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students:
Join our students from more than 150 countries around the world
Each year, people from 150 countries journey across the globe to join us.
So when you choose to live and study here, chances are you'll make the same life-changing trip as countless other students from wherever you call home.
Here, you'll find all the information you need to make the big leap to studying with us in Portsmouth – from the courses you can take and how much they'll cost and plenty more besides.
Explore everything you need to know about living and studying at our main campus in Portsmouth and our campus in London.
Start your journey towards studying in the UK.
Contact our team or meet with us either in person or online.
Meet us
Check if you meet the language and academic requirements for your course.
Find out about tuition costs and the funding options available to you as an international student.
Learn everything you need to know about applying as an international student.
Get ready for life in Portsmouth and discover all the support and opportunities available to you as a new international student.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/professional-and-flexible-learning:
Discover our part-time and distance learning at work degrees
You'll get a Bachelor's or Master's degree alongside your current job.
You choose what you learn based on your professional and personal aspirations, and you can mix online modules and work based projects to suit what you need to learn.
We'll help you build an approved study programme.
These courses offer a different way to learn.
You'll study while you're working, so you'll need to allocate time to your studies.
You'll be able to put the skills you learn to work instantly in your job, so you perform better and further contribute to the success of your company while you study.
You can choose from a range of qualifications including:
Browse all learning at work courses
Email: learningatwork@port.ac.uk
Phone: +44(0)23 9284 6260
You can get a degree and boost your performance at work with a degree apprenticeship or work-based Learning at Work degree course .
If you want to fit in study around work and your other commitments, you can also choose a part-time or distance learning course .
You can also find out how to do probation officer training , explore our courses for serving and former military personnel , search our range of short or Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses or contact us .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/short-courses-and-cpd:
On-campus, work-based or distance learning – explore our Short and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses
Whether you want to learn more about a specific area relevant to your career, work towards a university qualification, or develop custom-made training solutions for your organisation , our short CPD (Continuing Professional Development) training and development courses can help.
Many of our short courses and CPD training programmes carry academic credits and award professional accreditation, and we develop our courses and training with researchers and industry experts to meet your needs and ambitions.
We’re continuously developing new programmes that are relevant, up-to-date and practical.
We support you to fit your learning around your work commitments and home life, by delivering courses at different times, days and venues.
You can study our short courses on campus – where you'll have access to our facilities, equipment and resources – or you can study through distance learning, online at home or at work.
Choose to take a look at all of our short courses in one list, view the courses by industry, or browse the short courses provided by our Centre for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD).
View all short courses
View short courses by industry
View CCPD short courses
The links established with the University are assisting the company on its journey of continuous improvement and growth.
Managing Director, STS Defence Ltd
Whether you're topping up existing knowledge, looking to accelerate your career by learning new skills, or want to work towards a university qualification at work, short courses are a great option.
Browse the courses we're currently running and book your place now.
Our Centre for Continuing Professional Development offers a range of courses to students and professionals.
From English language learning to courses for career professionals, we provide an excellent and engaging learning experience.
Take a look at our Moving into Senior Leadership in Education short course - Creating a Motivational Workforce - or browse our other short courses below.
If you're an international student and English isn't your first language, find out how to apply for a Pre-Sessional English Language course with us.
Develop your knowledge of Academic English in friendly, accessible settings during your studies.
Study English language and culture in our summer schools for EU and international students in Portsmouth on the south coast of England.
Improve your English language or translation and interpreting skills while also experiencing British culture on our of our short courses, designed for teaching professionals from international institutions.
Need to fill some knowledge gaps before you start your teacher training?
Boost your understanding and confidence with our subject knowledge enhancement courses.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/exchanges-and-study-abroad:
Explore opportunities to live and learn abroad as part of your course
Experience another culture.
Learn another language.
Gain broader knowledge and skills, and develop a network of international contacts.
There are so many reasons to study or work in another country as part of your degree – and whether you’re a UK student interested in studying or working abroad as part of your course – or an overseas student who wants to study in Portsmouth on a UK exchange programme – we’re here to help.
Studying or working abroad as part of your degree can help your CV stand out from other graduates too, so when you apply for jobs or further study after graduation, your experience abroad could improve your chances of finding a great career.
We believe that making global connections is a crucial part of your exchange programme, therefore, to make your experience unforgettable, we are here to support you!
The Global Mobility team is a central team that looks after student and staff mobility for the entire University of Portsmouth:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/dual-degrees:
Develop a more comprehensive knowledge of your subject while you study in Portsmouth and Australia, Germany or France
Dual degrees (also known as double degrees and dual award degrees) allow you to gain 2 Bachelor's degrees or 2 Master's degrees in less time than it takes to study them separately.
Most dual degrees involve studying at 2 universities, so you'll benefit from the teaching expertise, latest research and facilities of both institutions.
And because each university is usually located in a different country, you'll get to experience another culture and build a professional network.
You'll study more modules than on a single degree, developing a more comprehensive knowledge of your subject.
You'll also gain an understanding of different cultures, which helps you work more effectively with people from different backgrounds.
All of this helps you stand out in a competitive job market after you graduate.
Dual Bachelor's degrees typically last 3.5 or 4 years when you study full time, compared to 3 years for a single degree.
They're not the same as joint degrees, where you study with 2 or more universities and graduate with a single certificate signed by all institutions.
Learn about our dual degree programmes with Edith Cowan University in Australia.
[Chris Chang; Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Global Engagement and Student Life]
Chris Chang: We have a strategic partnership with Edith Cowan University in Australia, particularly for students who have not travelled abroad or lived abroad, that gives them the opportunity to experience a dual degree.
The design of our programmes means that we have developed the programme from the ground up, which doesn't require you to study that much more time for a degree programme.
[Heather Massey; Course Leader, BSc (Hons) Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Dual Degree)] Heather Massey: There's lots of reasons why people might want to come and study this dual award course at the University of Portsmouth.
Learning in a different environment from different tutors and the facilities that they have at Edith Cowan are absolutely first-class.
Chris Chang: Students have the opportunity to travel for a year and the question that some students will have is "how will I be able to afford this?" Now the UK Government has launched the Turing programme and what this programme does is fund them to do study abroad, internships, placements.
It makes it accessible to all students from different groups, whether they are international students or students from the UK.
[The University of Portsmouth's participation in the Turing Scheme is subject to annual approval.]
[Credit: Tourism Western Australia]
[Dr Sarah Reynolds; Programme Lead, BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Management (Dual Degree)] Dr Sarah Reynolds: Experiencing life in a different country.
You would mature and develop your confidence during that time and definitely walk out of the degree, I think standing up a bit taller than if you hadn't.
Chris Chang: Now the benefits of this is that you can actually show to employers that you have two degrees from two different universities in two different countries.
Jobs these days have changed quite substantially.
Your future job may not be in the UK and employers are looking for the kind of employees that are able to work in different contexts, different cultures be able to work in multidisciplinary and multinational teams.
One of the other benefits of this programme is that you can actually travel around, not just, Australia but around the ASEAN region because from Perth it's a very short flight to Hong Kong; to Singapore; to Malaysia.
Heather Massey: It's an amazing opportunity to learn both from experts in their field, but also learn about how different people in a different culture operate.
Chris Chang: There are inter-semester breaks of two-three months and you should use that opportunity to see the world.
The other thing that you have is having studied a year abroad, you will make friends who could in the future be your supporters, be your allies, and be your collaborators of the future.
[Dr Leah Fox; Course Leader; BSc (Hons) Counter Terrorism, Intelligence and Cybercrime (Dual Degree)]
Dr Leah Fox: Even though they're geographically away.
They'll still be able to get access to that same level of support as they were getting in Portsmouth.
They'll have access to wellbeing, they'll have access to financial services, they'll have access to personal tutoring.
Chris Chang: These courses that we have delivered so far: Global Sport Management, Cybersecurity, Intelligence and Counter Terrorism, Environmental Science and Management are all in very specialist and niche areas.
Means that wherever you end up working or living, you're prepared for it.
The demand for these courses are high, so we want highly motivated students who will benefit from this programme and benefit from a year abroad.
Dr Leah Fox: We're looking for an applicant who wants to make a change, who is open minded and prepared to be confronted with a number of challenges.
But overall, someone who is curious and wants to learn.
[University of Portsmouth] [Edith Cowen University Australia]
We currently offer 6 dual degrees in partnership with Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Western Australia and 1 dual degree in partnership with Münster University of Applied Sciences in Germany.
You'll be based in Portsmouth for most of your course, then spend 1 year at our partner uni.
We can advise you on travel arrangements, finding accommodation and accessing funding that can help pay for your study and living costs when you're in Australia, Germany or France.
To apply for a dual degree, you apply to us in the normal way – through UCAS or using the direct application form at the bottom of course pages.
You don't need to apply to both universities.
Don't worry if you change your mind about studying abroad after you start the course.
It's easy to transfer to a similar single degree once you're at Portsmouth.
In years 1, 2 and 4, tuition fees on a dual degree are the same as a single degree – £9,535 a year if you're a UK student (£4,767 in year 4 if this lasts 6 months).
You'll pay a reduced fee for your placement year, this is subject to annual increase, which will not exceed 20% of the full time fee.
Fees for EU and international students depend on the course – details are on each course page.
If you're eligible for a student loan, you can use this in years 1 to 4.
All fees are subject to annual increases, please refer to your relevant course page for next year's fees.
If you're eligible for a student loan , you may be eligible for a Student Finance England Travel Grant to cover travel costs, visas, vaccinations and medical insurance.
They are means-tested and vary by local education authority.
The UK Government has launched a new scheme to replace Erasmus+ for UK institutions, named after British code breaker and mathematician Alan Turing.
The Turing Scheme can provide funding for University students to study abroad worldwide (subject to the Scheme's terms and conditions).
We made a successful application to the first year of the Turing Scheme in 2021 and are committed to applying for funding from 2022 to help cover travel expenses and costs of living whilst studying in Australia on one of our planned dual awards.
We'll publish more information about the Scheme here, once confirmed.
Set yourself up for a global media and communication career studying in Portsmouth and Perth, Australia.
Specialise in Media and Journalism or Screen Media and Cultural Studies.
Start date: September 2025 September 2026
On this dual degree, you'll explore the evolving area of international terrorism and cybercrime, studying in Portsmouth and spending a year at Edith Cowan University, Western Australia.
Start date: September 2026
Study in Portsmouth and at Edith Cowan University, Australia and earn two degrees in three-and-a-half years.
Learn the latest environmental theory and get lab and field experience.
Study in Portsmouth and at Edith Cowan University, Australia and earn two degrees in 4 years.
Gain an in-depth knowledge of sport, health and exercise science in a global context.
Study in Portsmouth and at Edith Cowan University, Australia and earn 2 degrees in 4 years.
Gain an in-depth knowledge of sport management in a global context.
Learn how we can use the biology of disease to fight it on this BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Human Biosciences dual degree course.
Study in Portsmouth and spend a year at Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Perth, Australia, gaining two degrees and international scientific study experience.
Develop specialist knowledge and skills in a range of psychological subjects, including social interaction, learning and memory, child development, comparative and evolutionary psychology, clinical and health psychology on this dual degree while studying at Portsmouth and Edith Cowan University, Australia.
Gain the global business skills you need as you study abroad on this flexible international business degree.
You’ll explore a range of business specialisms including marketing, accounting, operations and leadership, and have the option to convert this course to a dual degree.
Foundation year option available

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/our-icp-foundation-year-courses:
Get ready to take on a Bachelor's degree with our ICP foundation year courses.
You'll get a guaranteed place on your chosen degree when you complete your foundation year.
If you want to kickstart your career but aren't yet ready to embark on a full undergraduate degree, our foundation year courses are for you.
During our foundation year degrees, you'll get all the background knowledge and skills you'll need to move on to a full Bachelor's degree.
So, it's ideal if you don't yet meet the entry requirements, if you've taken a break from study, or if you need a bit of extra support to get uni-ready.
You'll spend a year studying with us on campus, through ICP.
You'll get the knowledge and academic skills needed to take on a bachelor's degree, learning how to analyse information, do research, and improve your academic writing.
The skills you'll learn will help you work in teams as well as on your own in culturally diverse workplaces.
You'll develop your understanding of new workplaces and environments, and how to adapt to new environments.
After your foundation year, you'll be ready to move onto the first year of your chosen Bachelor's degree here at Portsmouth.
Once you’ve successfully completed your foundation year, you'll be ready to progress onto the full degree of your choice with a guaranteed place.
Which degrees can I move on to?
You may need to have studied specific subjects – find full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept .
See alternative English language qualifications .
We also accept other standard English tests and qualifications , as long as they meet the minimum requirements of your course.
If you don't meet the English language requirements yet, you can achieve the level you need by successfully completing a pre-sessional English programme before you start your course.
Please note these courses aren't currently open to EU or International students.
While we consider your grades when making an offer, we also carefully look at your circumstances and other factors to assess your potential.
These include whether you live and work in the region and your personal and family circumstances which we assess using established data.
Explore more about how we make your offer
In your foundation year, you'll gain the knowledge you need to move on to the first year of your chosen degree.
It will bridge the gap to uni, with the knowledge and academic skills you'll need to start.
Throughout the year, you'll learn to critically engage with information, undertake literature reviews, enhance your academic writing, and gain awareness of different types of research.
When you successfully complete this year, you'll get a guaranteed place on the first year of your chosen degree.
One of the main differences between school or college and university is how much control you have over your learning.
We use a blended learning approach to teaching, which means you’ll take part in both face-to-face and online activities during your studies.
As well as attending your timetabled classes you'll study independently in your free time, supported by staff and our virtual learning environment, Moodle.
A typical foundation year timetable will have 10 lessons spread out throughout the week, ranging from 2-4 hours in length.
You can expect to be in classes 4-5 days a week depending on your timetable.
Alongside your timetabled sessions, you’ll do independent study such as research, reading, coursework and project work, alone or in a group with others from your course.
Typically, you can expect to do 4-5 hours of independent learning per module, per week.
You'll probably do more independent study and have less scheduled teaching once you begin your full Bachelor's degree.
Most timetabled teaching takes place during the day, Monday to Friday.
You may occasionally need to go to University and course events in the evenings and at weekends.
You'll be assessed in a number of ways on your foundation year, including:
Typically, you can expect to have two assessments per module.
The academic year runs from September to June.
There are breaks at Christmas and Easter.
See term dates
The amount of timetabled teaching you'll get on your degree might be less than what you're used to at school or college, but you'll also get support via video, phone and face-to-face from teaching and support staff to enhance your learning experience and help you succeed.
You can build your personalised network of support from the following people and services:
Your personal tutor helps you make the transition to independent study and gives you academic and personal support throughout your time at university.
As well as regular scheduled meetings with your personal tutor, they're also available at set times during the week if you want to chat with them about anything that can't wait until your next meeting.
You'll have help from a team of faculty learning support tutors.
They can help you improve and develop your academic skills and support you in any area of your study.
They can help with:
During term time, Faculty Academic Skills Tutors (AST) are available for bookable 1-to-1 sessions, small group sessions and online sessions.
These sessions are tailored to your needs.
Support is available for skills including:
If you have a disability or need extra support, the Additional Support and Disability Centre (ASDAC) will give you help, support and advice.
Our online Learning Well mini-course will help you plan for managing the challenges of learning and student life, so you can fulfil your potential and have a great student experience.
You can get personal, emotional and mental health support from our Student Wellbeing Service , in person and online.
This includes 1–2–1 support as well as courses and workshops that help you better manage stress, anxiety or depression.
If you require extra support because of a disability or additional learning need our specialist team can help you.
They'll help you to
Library staff are available in person or by email, phone, or online chat to help you make the most of the University’s library resources.
You can also request one-to-one appointments and get support from a librarian who specialises in your subject area.
The library is open 24 hours a day, every day, in term time.
If English isn't your first language, you can do one of our English language courses to improve your written and spoken English language skills before starting your degree.
Once you're here, you can take part in our free In-Sessional English (ISE) programme to improve your English further.
Fees may be subject to annual increase
These foundation year courses with ICP aren't currently open to EU or International students.
Find out how to fund your studies , including the scholarships and bursaries you could get.
You can also find more about tuition fees and living costs , including what your tuition fees cover.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/learn-a-foreign-language-for-free:
Studying for personal interest and for credits you can put towards your degree
Learning another language at university is a great way to meet new people and make yourself more employable.
Being able to talk confidently with people who speak another language is also useful when you work, study or take a holiday abroad.
When you study with us on campus, you can learn a language for free alongside your course with our Institution-Wide Language Programme (IWLP).
When studying a full-time undergraduate degree, you have the flexibility to choose to study a language for personal interest as well as for credits towards your degree.
These classes are in-person only and are subject to availability.
Upbeat music plays throughout the video.
You can choose one of several language classes options, depending on your level and whether you'd like credit for the module.
These classes are for students who have limited or no previous formal learning or qualifications in their chosen language.
Most students join this beginner route.
If you have more substantial knowledge or existing qualifications in the language you'd like to study, you can apply for advanced language classes outside of your course.
This is for students who have passed an A-level qualification in the language, (or equivalent).
If you wish, you can achieve credits for studying a language at either beginner or advanced level in the second year of a full-time Bachelor's degree only.
Away from language classes, there are plenty of opportunities for you to get extra support to practise your language skills.
The Language Corner service is an optional weekly drop-in session for students enrolled on an IWLP module.
You can meet with a language tutor, get help with specific challenges and practise your skills with a proficient speaker of your chosen language.
The Global Café is a place where students from all over the world meet to learn about each other's cultures and practise speaking in each other's languages.
It is held each week in Park Building.
Moodle is the University’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
When you study with us, you can access all IWLP study resources on Moodle from anywhere with a web connection.
Institution Wide Language Programme
iwlp@port.ac.uk
From water sports to football and quidditch - few cities can compete with Portsmouth's sports opportunities.
How to get involved in your Union including the clubs and societies you can join.
There's so much to see and do in Portsmouth – from art galleries and museums, to creative workshops and cultural festivals.
Discover top places to eat in Portsmouth, from cosy cafés to budget-friendly dining spots.
Enjoy delicious meals and flavours in our vibrant coastal city.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life:
Explore all our affordable city has to offer
If you're looking for an affordable city, Portsmouth is an excellent choice to help with the cost of living for students.
Book an Open Day
Chat to our students
Reasons to choose us
Wherever you are in the world, explore a virtual day in the life of a Portsmouth student, even tour our accommodation.
Uni is about more than just your studies, discover all Portsmouth has to offer outside of the classroom.
Life outside study
Student Joy explains how to use Unibuddy to connect with staff or students like her and ask them your questions about our courses, student life, or simply why they chose to study at the University of Portsmouth.
Joy: Hi, my name is Joy and welcome to UniBuddy.
This is where you can talk to staff and students like me to learn more about life at the University of Portsmouth.
You can ask us anything about our course, our student life, or simply why we chose Portsmouth.
Finding UniBuddy is easy.
Just head to the bottom of the Student Life page, any of the course pages, the Virtual Tour app to start chatting.
We study a wide range of courses, so we're confident that we're able to answer any of your questions no matter how big or small.
Connect with us today and discover why Portsmouth is the perfect choice for you.
Student stories
Guidance and support
Teaching and learning spaces

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
It's where the free wifi is
Portsmouth is a great place to live as well as study.
We’ve got beaches, great places to eat, heaps of independent shops and music venues, cultural and artistic hotspots, and stacks of green space.
Portsmouth is one of the most picturesque, welcoming and interesting places to live in the UK, and was voted the in the top 10 trending hotspots by Airbnb (2022).
To find out more about our city, book an open day and get exploring, visit port.ac.uk.
It's always nice to see a friendly face.
If you and your friend are both joining us at Portsmouth and would like to live together, get in touch with us and we will do our best to allocate you accommodation together.
Email us

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study:
Find home among beaches, history, festivals and food
Find a course
Sport, music and food
Shops, outdoors and culture
Societies
Portsmouth’s coastal location and neighbouring national parks offer the perfect opportunity to get involved in a variety of sports, such as:
Explore sport in Portsmouth
Portsmouth's music scene is vibrant, with live events, festivals, and opportunities to perform, such as open mic nights and music societies.
Top picks include:
Explore Portsmouth's music scene
A diverse range of food options await, both on-campus and off-campus, from quick bites to a variety of cuisines.
Discover:
Explore places to eat in the city
Shopping in Portsmouth provides a unique experience, combining local independent shops, designer outlets, and high street stores.
Explore:
Explore Portsmouth shopping
Our city offers a diverse cultural and social experience, showcasing Portsmouth culture through:
Explore our city's culture
Discover our scenic outdoor scene, including various attractions such as:
Explore our outdoor spaces
Explore the city further by joining one of our University of Portsmouth societies .
There are loads to choose from, covering sport, culture, politics, gaming, faith and much more.
We offer two FREE campus bus services.
We also offer a loyalty scheme with 5% off, free coffee rewards, seasonal deals, and extra discounts for reusable cups.
We’ve got:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/why-choose-portsmouth:
We're a top 10 most affordable UK city for students
See our student accommodation
Find your course
Explore Connected Degrees
"The services that the uni offer are so valuable and I would recommend utilising them if you ever need to - everyone is really friendly, helpful and impartial and have a vested interest in your wellbeing." (Roxanne Smith, MSc Health Psychology student)
Discover our health and wellbeing support
Our outstanding teaching
Learn more about our Global community

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment:
Put your knowledge to work
That's thanks to our focus on work-related learning; our outstanding links with employers and professional bodies; the importance we place on getting our graduates relevant workplace experience while they're studying with us; and the ongoing support we give our graduates once their course is over.
Studying at Portsmouth really helped me prepare for my job, both technically but also generally in day-day working life.
Oakley Cheung, UK Civil Service
Find out how studying with us led Ollie Marsh into his dream career.
Ollie Marsh, a graduate of our BA (Hons) Journalism degree, now works for Portsmouth Football Club in the media team.
Find out how he achieved his dream: from doing a work placement at the club, to securing a full time position.
My name's Ollie Marsh, I studied Journalism at the University of Portsmouth and I now work at Portsmouth Football Club in the media team.
I've always felt that a club's media output has a big impact on the identity of the club, and certainly we bear in mind that everything we do relates to and contributes towards a brand.
So there's a little bit more responsibility than it seems on the surface.
In the briefest possible terms, I look after all of the digital side of things for the club, so that includes their social media channels and their Youtube channel.
I wasn't always interested in sports marketing.
In fact when I started uni, I said that my goal was to become a local journalist and my dream was to work at a football club.
So from my point of view, I'm hugely thankful that my dream has now come true.
And definitely the course equipped us as well, because it gave us a really broad range of skills that can be applied to lots of different situations and it gave us a real insight into all areas of the media industry.
It was easy to secure a placement at Portsmouth Football Club but it wouldn't have been were it not for the university.
The lecturers really go above and beyond to put you on the right path, get your foot in doors and it pays off because I'm here now.
Having a placement here did build my confidence because it's such a difference having your work actually seen by an audience.
It's all well and good handing in assessments and that can be fun, but when your work is actually seen by 100,000 people 0150 which is the audience that Portsmouth have on their social channels – it's such a buzz and it's fantastic to see all the engagement coming through and all the positive feedback.
I think there's definitely a parallel between the lecturers at university and the football manager.
Obviously, football managers have usually had a career in the game and all of our lecturers had a career in journalism so you knew what they were talking about.
And also, they could sometimes give us the hairdryer treatment if they needed to, to motivate us.
And just generally they looked for the right tactics, the right game plan to get us all the results that we wanted and it's that level of commitment that we really appreciated.
And certainly the university and the football club are both massive parts of the identity of the city, so I think it's an incredible thing that there's now a close link between them.
Our latest TEF Gold rating ranks Portsmouth amongst the top universities in the UK for teaching.
Find out more

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support:
Where to turn when you need a helping hand
From how you spend your time between lectures to managing your money, going to uni gives you the chance to be independent.
But you don't have to do it alone...
Find out about the guidance and support you'll get if you need a helping hand with academic life – or life in general – when you study with us.
Need support now with applying to uni or student finance?
See our guides on how to apply and fees and finance or our information for international students .
If you're looking for a personal academic tutor or student support services, you've come to the right place.
We'll give you advice and guidance on money-related issues — speak to us about how to fund your studies, how to manage your money, or how to apply for Student Finance.
Discover the health and wellbeing services you can access when you study with us.
Our graduate employment rates are among the UK's best, with 94% of our students in work and/or further study.
Everyone needs a little help with their studies from time to time.
Find out what learning and academic support you get when you study here.
Every year, thousands of students join us for their studies — from all kinds of backgrounds and circumstances.
Explore the support we offer during the application process and during your studies, and find out who to speak to for more information.
Browse all support
Advice and support for any student or applicant who shares a disability or additional learning need.
If you've spent time in care, find out what support and funding is available when you apply to university, and during your time in higher education.
If you aren't in contact with your parents, find out what support and funding is available when you're at university and before you apply.
If you're seeking asylum or have refugee status, you may find it more difficult to go to university — but we're here to help.
Explore this informational toolkit to help you get the most out of University studies and the application process as a person with autism.
Caring for someone doesn't mean that university isn't available to you.
Explore the support we offer to students with caring responsibilities at the University of Portsmouth.
Join a university where more than a quarter of our students are 'mature' when they start their course — and explore the help we offer at the University of Portsmouth.
If you have children or support a dependant adult, you could get extra financial support while you study with us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/coming-to-uni:
Advice on everything from how to make friends at uni, balancing living at home while studying
There's plenty to think about when you start uni – and preparing properly for such a big moment in your life can make all the difference.
Find out more about what to expect and what to do if you're coming to university soon, and read our helpful hints on everything from how to make new friends, to how you can limit your impact on the environment while you study.
Meet other students in freshers' week, at uni events, in your accommodation and on your course
Studying alongside working a full time job is rewarding, but not always easy.
Read our advice.
Decide whether living at home while you study is right for you.
As a student-parent, you'll have a few extra things to consider during your studies when compared to many of your classmates.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-on-campus:
Find out more about life on campus as a Portsmouth student – from where to study, to how to stay safe
When you study with us, you'll spend a lot of time at various places across our city centre campuses.
Join us on-campus to explore our unique Connected Degrees and everything Portsmouth has to offer.
Join us on-campus and discover your perfect postgraduate adventure at Portsmouth.
On the following pages, you'll find details on where to go when you want to study, where to grab something to eat and drink while you're on campus, as well as tips on how to get around.
Finding a quiet place to study on our campus is easy – see a list of the best places to get your head into your books here.
Located in the vibrant Waltham Forest borough of London, our Walthamstow campus is the home of University of Portsmouth London.
Known for its long and vibrant street market, our campus in Waltham Forest boasts:
Explore our campus Book an Open Day

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni:
If you're thinking about uni, use our guides to make the right decision for your future after school and college
This decision affects your choice to go to college, what you study at college and where you'll live when you take the next step.
We have guides to help you with each stage of the decision-making process, beginning with our guides on reasons to get a degree and different pathways you can take to get to uni.
Advice on pathways, options, choosing a subject, and other decisions at post-16.
Explore what to expect at university and how being at uni will differ from your time at school and college.
Discover the benefits of getting a degree, and explore the opportunities you'll get at uni.
Find out the different ways you can go to uni, including what to do if you don't have A-levels.
Discover the range of ways that you can study for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
17 June 2024
Our students share stories about their journey to university, answering questions like: What did they want to be they were small?
What was their favourite subject at school?
Where are they now and what do they hope to do in the future?

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/make-a-payment:
Pay your tuition, accommodation or language course fees
If you're paying your student tuition or accommodation fees in full or part payments, or have sponsorship support, read the information here to make sure your online payments are made correctly.
You can also find details on fees for our English language courses, international admission fees, how to stay on track with your payments and who to ask when you need help.
University of Portsmouth now welcomes UnionPay Cards for safe and convenient payment online.
Once you register or re-register online, a tuition fee invoice will be generated and an email will be sent advising you of a new transaction on your account.
You can view your account and pay your invoice by logging in to your Student View and accessing payment links via the My Finance tab.
Pre-payments such as deposits aren't shown on your invoice; remember to deduct these before making the payment.
You can check your balance in the My Finance tab.
You can pay via American Express, Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit or Paypal.
You can pay by Flywire international bank transfer .
If you are a sponsor and have been issued with an invoice you will be asked to log-in to the Webpay portal using your account number (found at the top left of your invoice).
Payment can be made online 24 hours after the invoice has been issued using American Express, Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit and Paypal.
Web pay
Instalment plans are set up by registering payment details during online registration and need to be completed in the Financial Registration section, this applies to all plan options (apart from the *International Student plan for 2 instalments, where you are required to make a payment directly to the University for both instalments).
Once you're set up, we'll create your plan, and send you a payment schedule detailing instalment dates and amounts which we will automatically collect.
This will be sent out after your fee invoices have been raised.
See terms and conditions .
Instalment Payment Methods: Direct Debit or by the following cards - Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit, or American Express
4 December  2025
All offers made by the University of Portsmouth to non-EU students are subject to a deposit.
This payment is required before your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) statement can be produced.
Alternatively, you may provide a letter from your financial sponsor (this cannot be a friend or family member).
Details of sponsorship would be required at least 3 weeks prior to the start date of your course and is required before the CAS statement can be produced.
The letter should be emailed to international.admissions@port.ac.uk .
All offers made by the University of Portsmouth are subject to checks for criminal conviction, tuition fee status, regulations for students under 18 years of age, Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS), fraudulent materials, and UKVI regulations.
You can view your account and pay your invoice by logging into your Student View and accessing payment links via the My Finance tab.
If you require a proforma invoice prior to this please email feeenquiries@port.ac.uk .
You can pay using American Express, Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit or Paypal
You can also pay your fees via Flywire, read our Tuition Fees for International Students page to find out more.
A tuition fee deposit is required of which GBP 1000 is non-refundable (deposits will be refunded in full to students who have their visa refused, unless the refusal is due to a fraudulent application.
More details about deposit refunds can be found in the Tuition Fee Policy).
Applicants should not pay this deposit until they have received an offer from us.
Once the academic conditions and the financial conditions have been fulfilled and the deposit payment has cleared, the Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) will be sent out by email.
Please note that the CAS won’t be sent earlier than 3 months before the course start date.
The deposit will contribute towards the tuition fee.
Some students are exempt from paying the tuition fee deposit.
For more details, please see International fees and funding .
Once you register or re-register online, an invoice will be generated and an email will be sent advising you of a new transaction on your account.
You can pay your accommodation fees in termly instalments.
Instalment can be paid via our Webpay portal by American Express, Mastercard, Visa or Visa Debit.
If you wish to pay the termly instalments via Direct Debit or Recurring card instruction this can be set up via your My Finance pages when you register.
Get started by signing up on the Webpay portal .
You will then be taken to a customer validation screen.
You, or the person paying, will enter your student ID, student name and student date of birth.
If a third party (for example, friend or family member) is completing the form, they will need to verify their relationship to you If you are paying your own fees, select “self”.
An invoice will be generated and an email will be sent advising you of a new transaction on your account.
You can pay via American Express, Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit or Paypal
Learn more about English language courses.
For payment methods please visit the ICP web page
Students, especially international students, are particularly vulnerable of falling victim to fraudsters when paying their university fees.
Online and telephone financial fraud is on the rise and often, fraudsters will offer significant discounts, incentives, or attractive exchange rates to encourage students to use these methods of payments.
Please remember that if it sounds too good to be true, then it probably is.
The University of Portsmouth does not offer any incentives for payment via a third party.
Tuition and accommodation fees should always be paid directly to the University of Portsmouth, preferably through SITS applicant view or student view.
Students should never give their log in details to anyone else, especially if that person is offering to pay fees on their behalf.
The most common scams to look out for include:
Losing money on tuition fees can have serious consequences.
Money Laundering is a serious criminal offence and if the University is informed of, or suspects, fraudulent payment activity, it will take appropriate action in accordance with its Anti Money Laundering Policy.
In circumstances of payment fraud, be it wittingly, or unwittingly, the University reserves the right to reject an application, withdraw a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) or de-register a student from the course without further recourse from the student.
Advice for students:
For further guidance please see the action fraud website .
If you or your appointed third party is found to have made a fake/fraudulent payment, the University will hold you responsible and take disciplinary actions against you which may result in your immediate de-registration from the course.
We strongly advise that payments on your account are either made by yourself or an immediate trust-worthy member of family and not by an unknown third party.
The University is not responsible for any financial loss to any student as a result of fraudulent activity
If you are making a payment from one of the following sanctioned countries we will require further information from you confirming the source of funding:
For more information, please contact the Financial Controller at sanctions@port.ac.uk .
Our friendly team can help you with all your questions about fees, payments and invoices.
You can contact us by email at any time via income@port.ac.uk , or call us on +44 (0) 23 9284 5533 at the following times:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/chat:
from the people who know it the best
Unibuddy is an easy way to f ind out more about Portsmouth from the people who know it the best.
We are actively working to ensure that all our web content meets the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA standard .
Some elements of Unibuddy do not pass AA colour contrast standards.
If you are having trouble using Unibuddy, please contact us and we'll find the team you need.
If you’d like to learn more about our commitment to accessibility for all, please read our accessibility statement and Unibuddy's accessibility policy .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/graduation:
Your guide to attending your graduate’s ceremony
How to prepare
Ceremony dates
On the day
International guests
Whether you're a parent, family member, or friend, this page has all the essential details to help you prepare for the big day.
Current students can find information about ceremonies, academic dress, photography, and additional resources on MyPort .
If you’ve already graduated, explore our alumni section for support with award documents, events, benefits, and more.
Ceremony dates for the July 2026 ceremonies will be made available in the first quarter of 2026.
Please check back here for further information
Times are given in British Summer Time (BST).
Want to relive your ceremony?
Watch the ceremonies from 2025 in our Ceremony Playlist.
Graduation 2025 Playlist
Provisional graduation dates:
Dates will be confirmed via email closer to the time.
If you have any questions about graduation as a guest, please get in touch with our Graduation team.
Note, we're unable to discuss specific details regarding the graduate without their permission.
Explore our common inquiries about graduation.
Whether you’re curious about the schedule of events, seating arrangements, or how to obtain extra tickets, we’ve got you covered.
Get answers

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research:
Responsible Innovation: solving problems, enriching lives, creating lasting impact
We want to help shape the future and know it takes more than words to make a difference.
That's exactly what our research aims to do.
We're making a significant difference in the world.
77% of our research impact was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in REF 2021 .
Our belief in knowledge-sharing makes our research exceptional and relevant.
Our approach is always collaborative.
We work with local and global partners in education and industry.
Our media ready experts also regularly contribute their knowledge and expertise to print, broadcast and digital media coverage of the issues their research addresses.
View our Research and Innovation Strategy to find out how we're delivering globally significant research excellence, and explore below how you could become part of our research community with our PhD and research degree opportunities .
Our research centres, institutes and hubs bring together expertise and resources from across the University of Portsmouth to tackle pressing global issues.
Working with industry and academic partners, and across our 5 faculties, our researchers are leading their fields and creating impact.
Discover our unique, collaborative and multi-disciplinary areas of expertise.
Our research responds to challenges, influences policy and helps change the world for the better.
Discover the impact of our research
Take your expertise further by studying for a PhD or other research degree at the University of Portsmouth.
Explore the subject areas you can study & get started on your research journey.
Fellowships give you the step-change opportunity to undertake an individual project alongside activities to develop your career.
Explore our fellowship opportunities.
The University plays a critical role in supporting space industries in the UK and is delivering pioneering research in the space sector.
Discover more

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes:
We're exploring scalable actions and sustainable solutions to build an equitable and sustainable society.
Find out more about our expertise in Artificial Intelligence (AI).
ACRE addresses the gap in provision for autistic adults in terms of employment and to facilitate job retention by developing tools to support employers.
At the Centre for Applied Geosciences, we're investigating natural and manmade hazards and geo-heritage conservation.
We're committed to the protection, restoration and sustainable governance of our aquatic environments
In the Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology, we're exploring evolutionary processes and comparing humans with other animals, to study the origins of behaviour.
Create stunning works for film, TV, music, gaming and immersive reality in the UK's first integrated facility of its kind.
The Centre for Cybercrime and Economic Crime brings together expertise in cybercrime and economic crime to enhance research, teaching and innovation.
We're researching topics such as citizenship, race, language across borders, social theory and transnational politics.
At the Centre for Enzyme Innovation, we are working to solve one of the most pressing environmental issues facing our planet.
We're working to develop technology that makes work more efficient for the organisations that form the National Health Service (NHS).
In the Centre for Interaction, Development and Diversity, we study psychological phenomena in relation to the contexts and situations in which they emerge.
The Centre for Innovative and Sustainable Finance (CISF) is undertaking research that helps governments, organisations, individuals, and society adapt to the evolving national and international financial landscape.
Find out more here.
We're using our expertise in analytics, system design, simulation, programming, and forecasting to help organisations around the world make better decisions.
The interdisciplinary Centre for Port Cities and Maritime Cultures focuses on the past, present and future importance of urban-maritime cultures and communities within a global context.
We're researching the history and culture of the English speaking world through literature.
In the Dog Cognition Centre, we're exploring the behaviour and cognitive processes of man's best friend – and studying everything from human-dog communication, to facial expressions in dogs.
The Global Plastics Policy Centre is helping to find sustainable solutions to tackle plastic pollution around the world.
The Heritage Hub brings together researchers and professionals from across the university to tackle key issues in heritage and heritage conservation locally, nationally and internationally.
Our multidisciplinary research environment supports the translation of science for societal benefit.
Researchers at our Institute of Cosmology & Gravitation explore the evolution of our Universe and aim to inspire the next generation of scientists.
Explore the marine ecosystems of the Solent European Marine Site at our shoreside marine station, complete with floating research platform, £2 million aquarium and laboratory suite.
The ICRFP has an established international reputation for conducting a broad range of criminological and forensic psychology research.
In our Quantum Science and Technology Hub (QSTH), we're studying quantum science and developing novel quantum technologies.
From combatting microplastics to analysing plastic policies around the globe, we’re putting our research into practice, working with local groups, organisations, businesses and individuals to solve the planet's plastic problem.
We're undertaking fundamental and applied research in Materials Science and Engineering Technology with the focus of contributing UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
CERES stands at the forefront of addressing critical challenges in environmental sustainability and renewable energy.
Established as a beacon of innovation, our centre is dedicated to pioneering research and finding solutions that significantly impact both local and global environmental challenges.
The Centre of Excellence in Defence, Risk and Resilience (CEDRR) explores the drivers behind conflict and disaster whilst preparing professionals and organisations to better respond, promote resilience, and seek solutions.
Discover our research into the relationship between law, innovation and technology, and the impact of this relationship on the future of society.
The Institute of the Earth and Environment brings together leading expertise, spanning the six interconnected spheres of the Earth system: geosphere, hydrosphere, cryosphere, atmosphere, biosphere, and the anthroposphere.
Centre for Integrated Health and Wellbeing (CiH-Well), is an international hub dedicated to advancing health outcomes, reducing disparities, and enhancing well-being across all stages of life.
Enhancing academic-policing partnerships through evidence, engagement and educational enrichment

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas:
Working with industry and academic partners, and across our 5 faculties , our researchers are leading their fields and creating impact .
Explore our Areas of Expertise
Browse our postgraduate research degrees - including PhDs and MPhils - find a supervisor and explore our PhD subject areas.
Find a supervisor PhD subject areas

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-impact:
The University of Portsmouth's incredible research is making a positive difference to lives both locally and all across the world.
Our research has benefits far beyond academia, exploring areas such as the environment, economics, culture, government policy, sustainability and so much more.
Upbeat music plays whilst text describes the impact research at the University of Portsmouth has had on engineering and the environment.
Upbeat music plays whilst text describes the impact research at the University of Portsmouth has had on the protection of wildlife around the world.
Upbeat music plays whilst text describes the impact research at the University of Portsmouth has had on people's lives.
View more research videos
Research carried out by Caroline Cox has shaped guidance around ivory sale laws and helped to develop tools used to identify illegal ivory trade.
19 October 2023
Research led by David Sanders has contributed to a higher quality of life for over 2,000 children and young people with disabilities in the UK by improving their mobility.
The forgotten history of feminist campaigning in Portsmouth has been rediscovered thanks to research collaborations between University of Portsmouth researchers and local community groups.
Lives have been saved in the UK and internationally thanks to improved water safety guidelines and public information informed by University of Portsmouth research
Research has resulted in improvements to the quality of life for Reaper drone pilots through the introduction of ethics training and improved awareness of the psychological and emotional impacts.
Diverse international benefits have occurred due to research led by Andy Thorpe on Microfinance.
20 October 2023
Read more case studies

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects:
Browse the full list of current and past projects on our research database, Pure
All research projects
Explore our active projects by research centre
Active projects
Sail to Steam, Carbon to Green: Empowering Port Communities in the Global South

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture:
Developing and enhancing how research and innovation are supported, delivered and communicated
Research Culture has been defined in many ways by many organisations, but is essentially concerned with 'how research is managed, how people are supported to undertake research, how research ensures value and how individuals engage with each other as they attempt to become successful researchers'.
(Vitae, 2023).
The University of Portsmouth's Enhancing Research Culture programme is a core element of the University's strategy and aims to enhance the excellence of our research by supporting our people to be the best researchers they can be.
The project is delivered through several core themes, as outlined below, each designed to foster a thriving and inclusive research environment.
The people, culture, and environment (PCE) of those who conduct, support, or are involved in research will be a key focus in the next Research Excellence Framework (REF 2029).
A central aim of the Enhancing Research Culture programme is to showcase the excellent support and activity we provide in this area.
If you have any comments about the programme, whether you’d like to help, or have any issues you’d like us to tackle, please contact us at researchculture@port.ac.uk .
Discover how we support our researchers, innovators and research enablers with personal and professional development and access practical advice on how to ensure your wellbeing and resilience at work.
Research governance and ethics covers principles, standards, policies and practices that are in place to support researchers in understanding their wider societal, legal and ethical responsibilities.
Upholding the highest standards, we ensure our research is ethical, transparent, and responsible.
Through national standards, robust governance and open practices, we seek to build trust and excellence in all of our research activities.
Explore how we work to ensure and celebrate fairness, inclusivity, and representation in our research activities.
CEDARS is your chance to share your experiences of the research environment and culture you work in.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars:
Sign up for inspiring research seminars led by academic staff from the University of Portsmouth and the wider research community
Disruptive research needs global, interdisciplinary collaboration.
Our research seminars bring together researchers from the University of Portsmouth with academics from around the world to discuss and debate the latest ideas.
Our seminars are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.
You can find details of all seminars on the pages below.
Find out more about research opportunities at Portsmouth, and how you can help us tackle the planet's most urgent challenges.
Start your research journey today.
Find out more about the principles, values and aims that underpin our research culture here at the University of Portsmouth.
A podcast lifting the lid on the latest ideas and discoveries set to change our lives.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework:
Find out more about our REF 2021 submission and results
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the benchmark of a university's research success.
Find out how we performed in REF 2021.
The results of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) provide accountability for public investment in research, demonstrate the benefits of this investment and determine how much public money is given to fund research.
77 per cent of research we submitted is rated in the highest categories — world-leading and internationally excellent — with wide-ranging impacts on society, health, culture, and the environment.
We are ranked third of all modern post-92 universities in the UK for research power, which measures the quality and quantity of research submitted into the exercise.
Our REF submission included 1,407 research outputs and 54 impact case studies across 16 subject disciplines and involved 603 academic staff.
Our REF 2021 submission covered sixteen Units of Assessment.
For detailed information about our results in each area, please click on the Unit names.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is an independent review of the quality of research in the UK's Higher Education institutions.
It's undertaken by the four UK higher education funding bodies.
Our Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF 2021) preparations are led by our REF Steering Committee, coordinated by our REF Operations Group, and administered by a REF Team in our Research and Innovation Services (RIS) department.
All institutions are required to develop a Code of Practice for REF 2021, setting out their approach to the identification of staff and selection of outputs for submission to this exercise.
This code outlines our policies and processes for:
The policies and processes set out in this Code were developed through consultation with staff at all levels across the University and with staff representative groups – including University and College Union (UCU) representatives, who gave their agreement to this Code of Practice.
The University is making a single submission to the REF 2021 and therefore this data notice applies to current and former staff within our submission.
For the purpose of GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018 the University of Portsmouth is the "Data Controller" for processing personal data collected for our REF submission.
REF 2021 is an exercise to assess the quality of UK Research and inform the selective distribution of public funds for research by the four UK Higher Education Funding Bodies; it comprises assessment of research outputs, impact and environment in subject areas ('units of assessment or UoAs) and requires the submission of details of all eligible staff.
Your personal data may be used to support the University's REF 2021 submission, which as a national research assessment exercise is carried out in the legitimate interests of the University, and current and former employees.
We will retain all data used in the development of the REF submission until completion of the REF audit process (April 2022 latest), and will retain a copy of any outputs, impact and environment submission after submission, in order to facilitate future REF submissions.
Data is retained for as long as it is required to perform the above purpose, or for as long as is required by law.
At the end of that retention period, personal data will either be deleted completely or anonymised, for example by aggregation with other data so that it can be used in a non-identifiable way for statistical analysis, equality impact assessment and business planning.
Should you have any queries or concerns regarding data use for REF 2021, please contact Denise Teasdale, Research Manager, at denise.teadale@port.ac.uk.
Download the Staff Privacy Statement (PDF)
With the REF submission deadline of 31 March 2021 having now passed, Research England have confirmed the process for individuals to make a formal complaint where they believe an institution has not followed its agreed Code of Practice.
The process has two phases.
The first phase is open from April 2021 to 30 November 2021, and will address complaints prior to publication of the REF 2021 results.
The second phase will look at complaints that arise after the results are published, expected to be in April 2022.
This phase will end on 30 June 2022.
Submitted complaints will first be examined by the REF Team at Research England, and those that are in scope for the process and where sufficient grounds have been provided will then be considered by an expert panel from across the four Funding Bodies.
Complaints can only relate to alleged breaches of the agreed Code of Practice, and cannot relate to any other REF issues including suitability of the Code itself, academic judgement applied to decisions, and conduct of individuals.
Any individual can submit a complaint directly by email to the REF Team at Research England.
Complaints cannot be submitted anonymously.
Complainants will be advised about the use of any personal data that must be submitted as part of their complaint.
The REF Team may also trigger an investigation where they believe a systemic, rather than individual or isolated, breach of an institution’s Code has taken place.
To be eligible for REF, Research England’s Open Access (OA) Policy requires that journal and conference articles are open access.
This policy applies to articles accepted for publication from 1 April 2016.
To meet the conditions of this policy, our research staff must upload a copy of their articles to our research portal as soon as they're accepted for publication.
If you'd like more information about REF 2021, please visit ref.ac.uk .
If you have questions about our preparations for REF 2021, please contact ref@port.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/work-with-us:
State of the art facilities, world class researchers, top of the range labs
Our lab and testing facilities at Portsmouth have helped us develop strong relationships with businesses.
We have specialist labs and facilities including our Extreme Environments Laboratory and our SAP Next Generation Lab .
We have close partnerships with research centres and businesses off-campus too, which allow us to offer researchers access to a variety of labs and testing facilities to suit their requirements.
Explore more
Whether you're a large organisation, a start-up, or considering taking your business global - we can help.
Here at the University of Portsmouth we have a range of opportunities for businesses.
Why not speak to one of our experts for advice in your industry?
Take your business forward
Take the steps to further your career.
If you are considering a fellowship as your next career move, here are some steps to take and how we can help.
Discover fellowships
Undertake a postgraduate research degree at Portsmouth.
Explore research degrees
Explore our researchers, their interests, recent projects and contact details.
Visit the directory

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-degrees-subject-areas:
Explore our PhD subject areas and find a research degree that's perfect for you
We're internationally-recognised for the quality of our research, home to superb facilities, and our creative, collaborative research culture is developing all the time.
On this page, you can see all the subjects area where we offer supervision for postgraduate research.
You can also explore the research degrees and opportunities available in each of our subject areas – from accounting, economics and finance, to sports and exercise science.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate:
Support our research, join our business networks or partner with the University by working with our staff, students and graduates
Our students, staff and researchers benefit greatly from working with our local community – and in return, we're committed to making a positive difference to the people and businesses in our city and beyond.
Our partnerships in the local community include working with children in care and care leavers , the black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) communities and other under-represented groups to improve access to education .
We also support military service children in Portsmouth, the home of the British Royal Navy.
One of our biggest partnerships is with Portsmouth Football Club, which includes supporting the work they do through their charity, Pompey in the Community.
Organisations and individuals can collaborate with the University by taking part in or supporting our research and working with our students .
Our Careers and Employability Service can also help you recruit skilled student volunteers, placement students on their sandwich year and new graduates.
You can work with us to develop your employees' skills too, through work-based learning courses , or grow your business by using our incubation services – from the coworking, hotdesking and private office spaces we offer, to mentoring programmes and networking events designed to help develop your business.
From offering our expertise and facilities, to finding office space and business support, we can help your organisation succeed.
If you're self-employed or running a small to medium enterprise and need space to grow, Innovation Connect offers desk and office space options in Portsmouth, as well as expert advice and support.
Discover our partnerships and the positive impacts they're making.
Our Schools and Colleges Team can show your students what higher education offers, and help you guide them towards achieving their goals.
Discover how we get involved locally and how you can participate too, from providing housing for our students to helping with our research projects.
We welcome suppliers of all kinds, including small and medium-sized enterprises.
Find out more about working with us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/business:
Big or small, new to the market or well-established – whatever your business, we can help it go further
Whether you’re a start-up or a multinational, taking your business to the next level is hard work.
But whatever the challenges or opportunities that lie ahead for your business, we can help.
Find out more about all the ways we can help your business

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/coworking-and-office-space:
Join our community and build your business
Unlock exclusive benefits, discounts, and events designed to accelerate your business growth.
Visit our dedicated website, Innovation Connect, to explore the full range of our offerings and discover how we can help you achieve your business goals.
See a map of our office space, coworking space, and event space locations below.
Related news, blogs, and events will appear here.
If there are no listings below check out other news across the University .
26 August 2025
20 August 2025
19 August 2025
Frank Ledwidge
18 August 2025
Steve Fletcher
Sep 15 2025
1.00pm - 3.00pm
Free
Sep 17 2025
5.30pm - 7.00pm
Sep 18 2025
12.30pm - 3.45pm
1.00pm - 2.00pm
Sep 23 2025
22 August 2025
21 August 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/schools-and-colleges:
Give your students an insight into higher education
If you work with KS2-KS5 students, we’ll help you show them the opportunities that higher education has to offer.
Whether they need a hand with big decisions after school or college, or you want to explore the latest sector updates, you can count on us.
Speak to our team about organising a face-to-face event, workshop and campus visit for pre-16 and post-16 students.
And discover digital resources to use in class, CPD, subject tasters, live webinars and useful blogs.
Access free online KS2-KS5 workshops, activities, lesson plans and resources for students to use at home or in the classroom.
Discover pre-16 events, talks and workshops, designed for young people from groups who are under-represented in higher education.
Explore presentations, workshops, events, webinars and activities for students to learn more about higher education and going to uni.
Get an insight into studying subjects at university with our subject-specific events and Taster Days.
Explore our bespoke training, conferences and events designed to help you continue what you do best – teach, inspire and support your students’ learning.
Read the latest blogs on schools and colleges, hear from students and get an inside look into what's happening at the University.
Get in touch below to stay up to date with relevant news for schools and colleges, to arrange a campus, school or college visit and to enquire about any specific online or face-to-face events delivered through the academic year.
Email: schoolsandcolleges@port.ac.uk Phone: 023 9284 6214

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/our-partnerships:
Discover our partnerships and the positive impacts they're making
Our success as a university is shaped by our willingness to collaborate.
Our teaching, research and outreach activities all make use of the skills and expertise of our collaborators.
We have a long track record of working with partners in education, industry and the community, and we're always excited to make new connections at the local, national and international level.
Find out more about our partnerships with the military, Portsmouth Football Club and other organisations, both large and small – and discover the positive impacts they're making.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/our-community:
Find out how you can get involved with our community of students and academics
We owe much of our continued success to our relationship with the Portsmouth community – they provide housing, make use of our public facilities, help our researchers to make important discoveries, and offer opportunities for our students to learn in the workplace.
We wouldn't be who we are without their input.
Follow the links below to find out more about how you can get involved as a volunteer organiser, landlord or research participant.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/procurement-and-suppliers:
Find out more about becoming a supplier
Our Procurement team plays an important role in University business and are responsible for the strategy and processes involved in acquiring goods and services for the University in a sustainable and financially viable way.
We operate fairly and transparently within the law governing public sector procurement, as well as within the University Financial Regulations.
We usually engage with suppliers via a tender or quotation process for a specific requirement.
We don't operate an approved supplier list; suppliers are engaged following a tender or quotation process.
We trade on our standard terms and conditions and require suppliers to provide evidence of their financial and technical or professional standing as part of our due diligence practices.
As part of our due diligence checks we'll require copies of relevant certification and insurances.
We'll also require confirmation of company status and a declaration of any conflict of interest.
We welcome suppliers of all kinds, including small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
We don't accept speculative sales calls or meetings, instead please register on our tendering portal In-Tend , where we advertise opportunities.
If you wish to contact us more generally about your products or services, then contact the procurement team by email or register directly on our In-Tend portal .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs:
Read the latest news from the University, including student successes and research breakthroughs, browse our calendar of upcoming events, listen to the latest podcast episodes, and read blogs from academics across our 5 faculties.
Got an enquiry?
Contact our Press and Media team at pressoffice@port.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0)23 9284 2728 , and our Events Team at events@port.ac.uk .
There's no better way to get to know the University of Portsmouth and the city, than to come to see it for yourself.
Come to one of our open experience days, and we'll help you explore our island city, and get to know what life as a student is like.
Book your place now
We're developing our podcasts to bring you expert insight on topical issues, stories from our students and alumni, and University news.
Find out more about our existing podcast series below.
Hear from our academics and experts directly from wherever in the world you are, by viewing one of our webinar series.
Our Research Futures webinar is focused on furthering conversations between our various disciplines to support our researchers’ projects and interactions while in isolation.
View all of the episodes in the webinar series from the Faculty of Business and Law
Our 'Getting Started' webinar series is designed to give you up-to-the-minute information, tips and guidance to help you get started with your uni application.
Want an expert opinion on a story?
Our press officers can put you in touch with the right person.
For urgent, out-of-hours media enquiries, call +44 (0)7594 502 933 .
Please do not use the out-of-hours media number for enquiries about coronavirus.
Please use the University Coronavirus Information line +44 (0)23 9284 5588 .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/events:
Discover the upcoming events in our calendar – from public lectures, performances and exhibitions, to conferences, seminars and open days.
Our Life Solved Live events are your chance to hear first-hand how research changes the world – and why people do it.
Join us Live

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs:
Get an inside look into what’s happening at the University
Come to an Open Day and get a more personalised and immersive taster into your course, speak with academic and support staff, meet your potential new classmates, explore our campus and discover student life.
You can browse all of our blog posts or choose from one of our specialist blogs below if you have a specific interest.
Disclaimer: Any views or opinions expressed are those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of the University of Portsmouth or its community
Look through our informative blogs about university life written by our current students, or read about what our Alumni students have been up to since graduating.
Keep up with the latest University news in research with blogs by our academics and experts.
Discover the upcoming University events we have for prospective students and how you can support young people taking the next step.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/podcasts:
We're working on new ideas for other podcast series – so check back here for updates.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/webinars:
Our academics and experts are hosting webinar series that cover a range of topics related to the work we're doing at the University.
You can view all of the episodes in each of our series by clicking below.
You can also keep track of our upcoming episodes and register your place to attend.
If you've missed a webinar, we also have all of the episodes recorded for you to view.
Catch up, or re-watch our work-based learning webinars.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/press-and-media:
Get in touch below or read our latest news .
Telephone: +44 (0)23 9284 2728 (8:30am-5:30pm) Email: pressoffice@port.ac.uk
For urgent, out-of-hours media enquiries, call +44 (0)79 8041 9979
If you have a non-media related enquiry, call us on +44 (0)23 9284 8484 (switchboard) or email info@port.ac.uk .
For all other contact information, see our 'Contact us' page .
+44 (0)7980 419 979 robyn.montague@port.ac.uk
+44 (0)23 9284 5760 cathy.banks@port.ac.uk
Communicating research findings to audiences beyond academia is essential to impact generation.
Carefully planned media engagement can raise the profile of your research, engage audiences, change public opinion and influence change.
The University’s media and communications team can provide advice on promoting your research in the media or producing an article for publication in The Conversation .
The team produces and distributes a wide range of media content including press releases, media pitches, blogs, podcasts and social media videos, and takes a proactive approach to promoting its research and researchers through local, national and international media.
All of these activities have been supported by our Press and Media team who provide dedicated media training to academics enabling them to engage with high-profile media.
Being taught how to handle interviews and practising those skills is the surest way to improve both the result and alleviate much of the anxiety many people suffer when engaging with the media.
If you would like to talk to the Press and Media team about promoting your research, writing for The Conversation or to sign up for media training, please contact the team at pressoffice@port.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-ambition/global-outlook:
Discover how we're growing our reputation as an international institution in every corner of the planet
Portsmouth is our home, but our reach and ambitions have always been global.
As a port city, we’re open to adventure and prepared to explore the world.
We’re home to over 5,000 international students from 150 countries.
We take our belief in higher education for all to every corner of the planet, through our network of regional offices in 78 countries, and our academic partnerships across Europe, America, Asia, the Middle East and Australia.
From Greece and Hong Kong to Oman and Singapore, we also partner with local colleges and institutions on courses in architecture, biochemistry, graphic design, accountancy and all types of engineering – civil, software, marine, aeronautical and mechanical.
Through our strategic global partnerships, we validate many courses and programmes too.
We’re always expanding our global reach, but our worldwide outlook starts at home – together with International College Portsmouth (ICP) and the Navitas Ltd Australia group, we’ve established a pathway for students abroad to get a University of Portsmouth degree.
Global Week is one of our most popular annual events where we celebrate the diversity of the people who make up the University of Portsmouth community
Discover how you can study or work abroad as part of your degree and explore the opportunities open to overseas students who want to study with us on an Exchange programme.
Our international profile, presence and reputation is growing all the time.
In everything we do, we’re developing a global mindset, and getting a better understanding of how we work in a global environment.
At a time when the global climate is uncertain and changing, we’re developing a strong international focus and awareness in our staff and students.
In doing so, we’re creating a culture that offers new opportunities and challenges for future generations of staff and students.
Our ambition is to grow our profile as a truly global institution with a diverse international community, and a track record of worldwide collaboration in research, teaching and innovation.
We want our students to be global graduates, who take the skills they’ve learned to every corner of the planet.
Over the next three years, we’ll be expanding our collaborative links and entering strategic alliances with high-quality partners who share our values and mission.
We’ll also continue pursuing opportunities to enhance the global profile, reach, standing and status of our research and teaching.
We’ll expand our global communities of learners through transnational education (TNE) with key strategic partners.
We'll provide opportunities for worldwide access to a Portsmouth education through digital delivery.
In doing so, we’ll give our on-campus students access to global communities through exchange programmes, internships, placements, volunteering and digital collaboration.
We’re growing our international footprint and reach through new strategic collaborations and opportunities around the world.
To grow our international presence and reputation, we will:
We’ll support and enhance our global research and innovation activities together with our cross-disciplinary themes.
To do this, we will:
19 June 2025
1 May 2025
3 October 2023
28 September 2023
20 September 2021
3 June 2021
6 May 2021
27 April 2021
19 March 2021
18 February 2021

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us:
Find out how we make a positive difference to the world and how you can join us
We’re proud to be a breath of fresh air in the academic world – a place where everyone gets the support they need to achieve their best.
We’re always discovering.
We don’t fit the mould, we break it.
Just as the world keeps moving, so do we.
We’re closely involved with our local community and we take our ideas into the global marketplace.
We partner with business, industry and government to set the course for a better future.
And we educate and transform the lives of our students to help them achieve their potential.
We stand out, not just in the UK but in the world.
We excel in research areas from cosmology and astrophysics to cyber security, forensics and sport science.
Since the first day we opened our doors, we've looked towards the future.
And we're here to help you shape it.
Study in London at the University of Portsmouth, in the heart of Waltham Forest.
Our purpose-built, capital city campus puts world-class teaching and industry connections on your doorstep, allowing you to fuel your ambition in one of the world's greatest financial centres.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-ambition:
Read the strategies that are shaping how we take the University forward
Three things tie together our plan for the future : our ambitious mission, our vision for bringing it to life, and the values that define the way we work, collaborate and behave.
We've already made giant leaps towards our goals – we're developing our campus and becoming a more sustainable university, and the strategies and plans we have in place are ready to be explored below.
Discover what we're aiming to achieve by 2030 to make our Vision a reality.
Find out how we're becoming more sustainable by improving energy efficiency, minimising waste, cutting back on plastic and reducing carbon emissions.
Read more about our ambitious campus development project.
We're based in Portsmouth, but our reach and ambitions are global.
Learn more about our international vision and activities, including our international research collaborations and our plans to grow further.
Discover how we're promoting inclusion and enriching economic, social and cultural life in Portsmouth and our region through collaboration, volunteering and partnerships.
Find out how we're ensuring equality of opportunity for all by creating a working, learning, cultural and social environment based on dignity and respect.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-story:
See where we've been and what we've achieved – from our earliest days to right now
Find out more about our major achievements, the positive impacts we're making at home and around the world, and the facts and figures behind who we are.
Our teaching gives you everything you need to succeed on your course and thrive in your career, wherever it takes you.
We are ranked third of all modern post-92 universities in the UK for research power in REF 2021.
Take a closer look at our work in sixteen Research Excellence Framework Units of Assessment.
As well as teaching the next generation of graduates, we use our facilities and expertise to make a positive impact in our local community and around the world.
QS World University Rankings give us 5 stars for teaching, employability, internationalisation, facilities, arts and culture, and inclusiveness.
See what else we've achieved.
Explore the facts and figures highlighting who we are and what we've achieved as an institution.
The Park building opened as a Municipal college and public library.
We focused on chemistry and engineering.
Our Student Union got up and running.
The opening was featured in the earliest edition of our Student Union newspaper, The Galleon.
After World War II, we started teaching arts and humanities subjects to respond to a growing demand from students.
We became Portsmouth Polytechnic.
Three years of building work began on Frewen Library – on the site of what is now our University library.
After a decade as one of the largest and best performing polytechnics in the UK, we out-grew our old name and received university status.
The University of Portsmouth was born.
Across the last decade and a half, we've been investing in all areas of the University, improving our campus and our services along the way – check out a few of our highlights below.
2006: New Library, halls and sports centre
New halls of residence and sports centres are built and we finish an £11m expansion of our Library.
2009: Dennis Sciama Building opens
The Dennis Sciama Building opens for teaching and research, and becomes home to our Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation .
2011-onwards: new partnerships flourish
We begin new local, national and international partnerships , with everyone from Portsmouth's New Theatre Royal to King's College London.
2014: Eldon Building
A new wing of our Eldon Building officially opens after a £14 million investment, bringing new facilities for the creative arts – including a 200-seat cinema-quality screening room and creative studios.
2017: Rebrand and 25th Anniversary
Our second rebrand: we retain our name but refresh our identity to better reflect who we are and what we stand for today.
Our new image emerged out of an in-depth consultation with over 10,000 participants from the staff and student body.
It's just one part of our 25th anniversary celebrations, during which we mark our first quarter of a century as The University of Portsmouth.
2017: Karen Blackett OBE appointed as Chancellor
Karen Blackett OBE, an alumna of the University, returned as our Chancellor in October 2017.
Karen is CEO of GroupM UK, the world's leading media investment company.
She was appointed Race Equality Business Champion by the Prime Minister as part of the Race at Work Charter in October 2018.
2018: Our Future Technology Centre
Our new £12 million Future Technology Centre (FTC) is opened.
Further proof of our excellence in engineering – one of the first two subjects we offered students, back in 1908 – it's where our engineering students can get hands-on experience of specialist technology, and develop creative answers to the next generation of challenges facing the world.
2019: Launch of the Centre for Enzyme Innovation
We launched the Centre for Enzyme Innovation after the discovery of a plastic eating enzyme – an enzyme capable of breaking down plastics into parts that can be repurposed and recycled within a circular plastics economy.
2020: Launch of the Centre for Blue Governance and CCIXR
We launched the Centre for Blue Governance in February 2020 to drive the sustainable development of marine and freshwater environments.
We also received £3.6 million from the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership to develop a Centre for Creative and Immersive eXtended Reality .
2020: Launch of Revolution Plastics
Revolution Plastics aims to lead a transformation in the world’s relationship with plastics.
The initiative is assembling scientists, businesses, campaigners and citizens to transform the way we make, use and dispose of plastic.
2022: Ravelin Sports Centre launch
In 2022, we completed our new £57 million Ravelin Sports Centre , which has been awarded an ‘Outstanding’ rating from BREEAM UK, the world’s leading sustainability assessment for buildings.
Staff, students and the community have access to an 8-court sports hall, 8-lane 25m swimming pool, 175 station fitness suite, multipurpose studios, squash courts, climbing wall and a ski simulator.
2023: London campus launch
In 2023, we launched our London campus in Waltham Forest.
Our London campus aims to boost the local economy by an estimated £372 million over the next 20 years, creating over 500 new jobs.
This initiative also aligns with our goal to become a leading modern university in the UK.
Our graduates – including our Chancellor Karen Blackett and Paralympian Lauren Steadman – talk about why they're proud to be part of our community
Karen Blackett: I am incredibly proud to always be part of Portsmouth.
Ollie Marsh: I studied journalism at the University of Portsmouth and I now work at Portsmouth Football Club in the media team.
Lauren Steadman: I love Portsmouth – it's got so much character and I think you'd agree that it's cool.
Karen Blackett: It's part of my soul, it's part of who I am today, it's made me who I am today.
To be able to go back and keep giving back is great.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/organisational-structure/our-academic-structure:
Find out more about the faculties, schools and departments that make up our academic structure
Explore the alphabetical list of our faculties below, and find out more about the teaching and research activities taking place across the University.
Our Faculty of Business and Law is home to our teaching and research in all major areas of law, business and management – from accounting, economics, logistics and human resource management, to International and European law.
Explore the Schools that sit within the Faculty below.
Our Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries is home to our teaching and research in subjects such as fashion, design, illustration, creative writing, media studies, architecture, animation, film and computer games technology.
Our Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences is where we deliver courses and conduct research in humanities and social sciences subjects, such as criminology, sociology, linguistics, history, politics and international relations, and education.
Explore the Schools and Institutes within the Faculty below.
Our Faculty of Science and Health is home to our courses and research in environmental, health, and life sciences.
Our work focuses on subjects such as earth and environmental science, physical and human geography, psychology, dental and oral health, and sport and exercise science.
Explore the Schools and Departments in the Faculty below.
Our Faculty of Technology is home to our courses and research in engineering, cosmology and astrophysics, computing, health informatics, mathematics and physics.
Explore the Schools and Institutes in the Faculty below.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance:
From our organisational structure and how we spend our money, to the ways we champion diversity, equality, sustainability and transparency – our policies, practices and standards shape our work.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-facilities:
Start exploring our facilities or learn more about our Estate Masterplan, which outlines how we'll be developing our campus
From sports facilities to teaching spaces and laboratories, we're investing in our facilities to improve the experience we deliver to our students, academic and researchers, our partners in business, and the local community.
Our undergraduates can access the latest equipment during their studies.
There's also academic and personal support available to help them make the most of their time with us.
The continuing investment we're making in our laboratories and research capabilities is leading to major breakthroughs – such as the development of a plastic eating enzyme within our Centre for Enzyme Innovation .
Our ambitious Estate Masterplan includes constructing new landmark buildings, refurbishing existing facilities and creating new public spaces.
Discover the Masterplan
The same facilities we use for our research are also open to businesses – whether they're looking to access our experts for training, conduct their own research, or partner with us on a collaborative research project.
Off campus, we've developed facilities in partnership with other businesses and organisations – including the Southern Water treatment plant, the Harwell Science and Innovation Centre in Oxfordshire, and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France.
We're continuing to develop our campus as part of our £400m Estate Masterplan – which features refurbishments, redevelopments and new buildings across our campus and city.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/working-at-portsmouth:
From lecture hall to head office, we recruit the best people to deliver the best experience for our students
Working with us is rewarding in more ways than one.
We are a new breed of university in a buzzing, diverse city with plenty of stories to tell, and it's not just our students who enjoy the benefits.
We've been awarded an Athena SWAN silver award for our commitment to gender equality, and we've got plenty of other awards and rankings successes to shout about too – but first and foremost, we're here to create bigger and better opportunities for all.
We're building a brighter future and we're looking for people to help us get there.
If that sounds like something you'd love to do, find out how to apply for a role with us today.
Explore our latest external and internal job vacancies here at the University of Portsmouth, and apply for a new role at a top UK university.
We're looking for talented people to help us become a digitally enabled and empowered university through M365, within a variety of permanent and fixed-term roles.
We're a truly global university and we welcome visiting academics, scholars and researchers from institutions around the world.
Discover the financial, personal and social benefits available when you start a new role at the University of Portsmouth – including staff discounts, pension schemes, generous holiday allowances and more.
The University of Portsmouth encourages sustainable commuting to Portsmouth options for all members of staff.
If you're coming to work at the University from overseas, find all the information you need, including getting your visa, finding accommodation and paying your council tax.
Information and support for University staff from the EU/EEA.
The University of Portsmouth has joined the Technician Commitment, ensuring visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/publications:
We believe in transparency and openness – and that’s reflected in the many documents and reports we make available to the public.
Get transparency on where our money comes from and a breakdown of how we spend it.
Every academic year, our Board of Governors publishes an audit of our financial statements.
View and download our most recent financial statements.
Read our Gender, Ethnicity and Disability Pay Gap Report for 2024 to see what we are doing to close the gender pay gap.
The University has a responsibility to provide student data to external regulators.
Find out more about the data we submit.
Read More
Every year we report on cases received by the complaints team.
The University’s mission is to create, share and apply knowledge to make a difference to individuals and society.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/key-dates:
Including term dates, vacation dates and graduation ceremonies
Dates may differ depending on your course.
You can check your specific course, teaching and vacation dates with your Course Admin Team or department.
Monday 15 September 2025 to Sunday 21 September 2025 (for courses starting in September 2025)
Monday 19 January 2026 to Sunday 25 January 2026 (for courses starting in January 2026)
Monday 22 September 2025 to Friday 26 September 2025 (for courses starting in September 2025)
Monday 19 January 2026 to Friday 23 January 2026 (for courses starting in January 2026)
Monday 22 September 2025 to Friday 19 December 2025
Monday 12 January 2026 to Friday 27 March 2026
Monday 20 April 2026 to Friday 26 June 2026
Monday 22 December 2025 to Friday 9 January 2026
Monday 30 March 2026 to Friday 17 April 2026
Summer Monday 29 June 2026 to Friday 18 September 2026
*If you're a student with a visa, visit our working during your studies page for more information about your vacation dates.
For information about graduation dates, please see our graduation page .
Monday 13 July 2026 to Friday 31 July 2026
Find out more about your term time and vacation working restrictions.
See key dates
Whether you're thinking of joining us, already studying here, or you're a parent or guardian with a child on their way to Portsmouth, there's plenty to discover.
Find an undergraduate or postgraduate degree course that suits you at Portsmouth.
Find out how we support young people at university, and get answers to pressing questions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/alumni:
Connect with your global alumni community
Update your details
Graduate support
Your alumni community
Benefits
Events
Stay connected
Whether you graduated in the last five years or decades ago, you’ll always be part of Portsmouth.
Explore how you can stay involved, plan a return visit to the university campus, give back or reconnect
You can also can find out information about your graduation, request academic certificates and transcripts, and access resources and benefits to help you succeed.
Make sure we have your correct details to stay up to date with the latest alumni community news, events and benefits.
We’re here for you, every step of the way.
Whether you're preparing to graduate or you're already part of our alumni community, find the key information you need:
Get prepared
Explore our Graduate Toolkit
Get support
Have more questions?
Read our FAQs
Use your alumni benefits to move forward, grow your career, return to study with a discount, access university facilities, or start a business.
You can also stay connected by sharing your experience, supporting future students, and being part of what comes next.
Get inspired by exploring how other Portsmouth alumni are making an impact across sectors.
The connections you make at university last a lifetime.
Our alumni events can help you:
Discover graduate events here
Receive updates on alumni benefits, news and research from the University, event invitations, or follow us on socials to keep up to date.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us:
Find all the contacts you need on MyPort or call +44 (0)23 9284 4444 .
From questions about your course, to what support services are available to help you.
University of Portsmouth Mercantile House Hampshire Terrace Portsmouth PO1 2EG
Lines are open Monday–Thursday 8.30am–5.15pm, Friday 8.30am–4.15pm.
+44 (0)23 9284 3333 (Security Lodge)
For life threatening emergencies, call 999 .
Help with finding part-time jobs, career planning, work experience and more.
+44 (0)23 9284 2684
careers@port.ac.uk
UK student enquiries
+44 (0)23 9284 5566
admissions@port.ac.uk
International student enquiries
+44 (0)23 9284 5113
globaladmissions@port.ac.uk
Help with halls or finding a property.
+44 (0)23 9284 3214
student.housing@port.ac.uk
Support for students and applicants who disclose a disability or require additional support for their academic studies.
+44 (0)23 9284 3462
asdac@port.ac.uk
clearing@port.ac.uk
Or go to our Clearing Hub to chat with us online or apply.
Support if you're an international student coming to study in the UK - including visa and work advice.
+44 (0)23 9284 3488
global@port.ac.uk
opendays@port.ac.uk
Enquiries about making payments and checking if payments have been received.
+44 (0)23 9284 5533
income@port.ac.uk
+44 (0)23 9284 2728 (8.30am-5.30pm)
+44 (0)7594 502 933 (out of hours)
pressoffice@port.ac.uk
Find more information on Press and media .
Questions about registering for your course.
+44 (0)23 9284 7744
regform@port.ac.uk
Enquiries about managing your money effectively, grants and other financial support available.
+44 (0)23 9284 3014
studentfinance@port.ac.uk
Enquiries about the tuition fees charged and payment of student loans.
+44 (0)23 9284 5259
tuition.fees@port.ac.uk
Find out how to get to/around Portsmouth and our campus with our interactive and downloadable maps.
Are you looking for a building, facility or service but don't know where to go?
Find the addresses and opening hours of our buildings here.
We take complaints seriously, and use them as an opportunity to learn and improve.
Explore our complaints procedures and support services available.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/guaranteed-room-in-halls:
What you need to do to secure a room
Received an offer and accepted us as your firm choice?
You will receive an email from our Student Housing team with details of how to login to our Student Home Portal to secure your room in halls when we open our 2025-26 Halls Application process, which will be from the end of February 2025 onward.
This includes full accommodation details – including deadlines, a student housing guide and our allocation policy.
Students with a Firm offer of study, who have submitted a completed online Hall application via the Student Home Portal by 20 June 2025 will be guaranteed a place in halls.
Portsmouth is a great place to live – a friendly city bursting with culture and character.
We have four miles of beach and almost everything is within walking distance.
All our halls are centrally located and close to the main campus.
Plus, NatWest ranks Portsmouth as one of the top 10 most affordable student cities (NatWest Student Living Index 2024) – so you'll have a place to call your own in a modern city that won't break the bank.
What to expect from living in halls at the University of Portsmouth
When you stay with us in halls, you get the keys to your own place and open the door to a community of new people.
All our halls are in the centre of Portsmouth, close to our campus.
Find out more on our accommodation page .
Video showing benefits of University of Portsmouth halls - fully furnished, in the heart of the city, with bills covered.
If you’re a new student starting at Portsmouth in the first semester of the academic year, you can secure a guaranteed room in halls of residence.
All you need to do is meet our accommodation deadlines.
So, make sure you apply early.
As an exchange student, you can apply for accommodation as soon as we’ve sent your official acceptance email.
If you miss our deadlines or prefer not to live in halls, there’s lots of private rented accommodation available in the city to suit a variety of budgets.
If your course starts in January 2026, you'll be sent an email from Student Housing advising you on latest information on your accommodation options once you hold an unconditional offer of study with Portsmouth.
Please note that for students arriving for study in January, halls will be allocated subject to availability, and we recommend that you start considering all other private rented accommodation options as well.
All January arrival students should make sure that they have booked accommodation prior to arriving in Portsmouth.
We will aim to guarantee a place in halls as long as you submit your accommodation application by the deadline outlined in the email you'll receive inviting you to apply for accommodation.
It’s important to complete your application as soon as possible before this deadline to give you the best chance of securing the type of hall you want – places are allocated in order of application receipt.
Please note that if you have not secured long term accommodation prior to your arrival, you are required to book a hotel or bed and breakfast - the University does not have any temporary or emergency accommodation for students (or any dependants).
Please be aware that the University has no family or couples accommodation.
Students who intend to bring dependants/family will need to find suitable accommodation via the private sector rental market.
We would not recommend arriving to the city with family/dependants until you have secured suitable accommodation.
You may need to widen your search outside of the main campus/city area to open up suitable housing options.
Our Student Housing team can give you the latest information on housing options available.
Get in touch with us at Student Housing
Call us on +44 (0)23 9284 3214
Email us at student.housing@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/order-a-digital-prospectus:
View our digital undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus
Our horizons are broad.
Our instinct is to explore.
Our promise is to inspire.
View our undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus and step into our world.
Whatever stage you're at in choosing a degree and university, you'll find everything you need to know about studying in Portsmouth in our prospectus.
Inside our undergraduate prospectus you'll find many reasons to choose Portsmouth: from our Gold-rated teaching, to our student-friendly city, 4 miles of beaches and great nightlife.
Explore our Master's courses and research degrees in our postgrad course guides.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/our-people/our-staff:
Find out about UEB, the University Executive Board , and discover how their work shapes our strategic direction.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/phd:
Ready to make an important contribution to the world through original research?
Discover how to do a PhD at Portsmouth
Explore our PhD subject areas
Find a PhD supervisor
How to apply for a postgraduate degree
A PhD is a globally-recognised postgraduate degree.
To gain a PhD, you'll need to conduct extensive original research into a specific chosen field.
When you study for a PhD with us, you'll work with leading experts with extensive experience in your area of interest.
You'll become a part of our internationally-recognised research , and a member of our research community.
You'll contribute to our collaborative research culture, and use our exceptional facilities too.
And you’ll be following in the footsteps of our previous PhD candidates, many of whom have made important, globally-significant contributions to research – like Harry Austin, whose work on a mutant plastic-eating enzyme is making headlines around the world.
As a general rule, to apply for a PhD you'll need a good first degree from an internationally-recognised university or a Master’s degree in an appropriate subject.
We'll also consider applicants with exceptional equivalent professional experience and/or qualifications.
Your PhD will take 3 years (full-time) or 6 years (part-time) to complete, and you'll produce a thesis of 40,000-80,000 words, depending on your subject area.
All PhD candidates need a supervisor to supervise them – and finding the right one is an important part of the process.
For more details on what you need to do before you apply for a PhD – from what qualifications you'll need, to what your application should contain – visit our how to apply for a postgraduate degree pages.
There are 3 main routes into a PhD at Portsmouth.
If you have an original idea for a research, you can find a PhD supervisor among our academics, whose expertise matches your own.
You can also apply for one of our pre-approved PhD projects – including some fully-funded projects – or explore our PhD subject areas and make an initial enquiry to our postgraduate research team.
The cost of your PhD will vary depending on where you're from, what you're studying, and whether you plan to study full-time or part-time.
If you're applying for a funded PhD, you'll have no fees to pay.
As a guide, PhDs cost £4,596 a year (full-time) or £2,298 a year (part-time) for UK/EU students, and £16,200-18,300 a year (full-time) or £8,100-9,150 a year (part-time) for international students.
If you are an EU student starting a programme in 2022/23 please visit this page .
If you need help funding your PhD, you may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan – a government loan that you can use for tuition fees, living costs and other course costs.
The loan is paid directly to you and you can apply online here .
The amount you’ll receive isn’t based on your or your family’s income.
So you can choose how much you borrow (up to £27,265 over your whole course).
The loan will be divided equally across each year of study, and you'll only start repaying your loan after your course when your annual income is more than £21,000.
For more information about the Postgraduate Doctoral Loan – and to see other sources of funding that may be open to you when you apply – visit our page on funding your research degree .
Studying for your PhD at Portsmouth is a great decision, but don't just take our word for it.
Find out why two of our recent PhD candidates chose us and how their research unfolded.
Get support to develop the research, professional and transferable skills you need to succeed.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/brexit-information-for-students:
Tuition fees, student loans, travel and exchange programmes
We are firmly committed to the maintenance of a diverse and multicultural staff and student body and to the benefits of teaching, learning and research that our European collaborations bring.
The purpose of this page is to provide students some information and guidance on key Brexit matters related to their study, or intention to study, at the University.
The UK exited the EU on the 31 January 2020 with a withdrawal deal agreed.
From 1 February 2020 we moved into a post-Brexit transition period which is scheduled to end on 31 December 2020.
Students from the EU who hold an offer with us to start in the academic year 2020/21, or who are considering applying in the future, can find information on this page about studying in the UK following Brexit or via the Government website .
Please check regularly for the most up-to-date information.
Last update: 26 October 2020
In May 2019, the UK government confirmed that EU students starting university in the 2020/21 academic year will have guaranteed home fee status and financial support for the duration of their course.
This applies to the undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research programmes.
EU students starting in the 2021/22 and 2022/23 academic year will receive the EU Scholarship , so you'll pay the same amount as a UK student.
You can see the fees you'll pay with the scholarship applied on each course page .
To find out the latest information about tuition fees for EU students, visit the Government website .
Last update: 8 April 2021
The type of visa you will require will depend on when you arrive in the UK.
If you are a University of Portsmouth offer holder who is an EU, EEA or Swiss national and your course starts before 31 December 2020, you will not require a visa in order to study in the UK before this date.
In order to protect your rights after the UK leaves the EU (meaning you can come to the UK to study, live and work after you have finished your degree), you will need to make an application under the EU Settlement Scheme after you have arrived in the UK, and before 30 June 2021.
The application process is easy, user-friendly and free of charge.
If you are an EU, EEA or Swiss citizen and intend to arrive in the UK on or after 1 January 2021, you will need to apply for a student visa under the UK Government's new Student Route.
Read our information about the Student Route .
More information is on the UK Government website .
Please note you will need to apply before arriving in the UK.
Until we have clarity around the UK’s transition period from the European Union, it is not possible to provide students with specific travel advice.
Students are advised to keep up-to-date with information on the Government website and consider that there might be some delays at entry points into the UK and into EU countries.
If you have any queries that are not covered on this page please contact international.student.adviser@port.ac.uk for further guidance.
You may also find the A prepared by Universities UK helpful.
As a result of the UK leaving the European Union, we won't be able to offer the Erasmus+ scheme after May 2023.
But, if you study with us between now and May 2023, you may still be able to apply to take part in Erasmus+.
For the academic year 2022/23, we’re in discussions with EU partners to ensure current opportunities to study abroad remain.
The UK Government announced the Turing Scheme as a replacement scheme for Erasmus+.
The Turing Scheme will allow you to study and work in countries around the world.
We'll update this page with more information when the details of the Turing scheme firm up.
If you join Erasmus+, you’ll still need to consider how you may be affected by changes to travel, immigration and any other practical arrangements as a result of the UK’s departure from the EU.
For further information about Erasmus+, please visit our age about studying and working abroad .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us/maps-and-directions:
Plan your journey to and from Portsmouth, and explore our campus when you get here
Find your way around our campus.
Our closest station is Portsmouth and Southsea.
It’s a 5-minute walk from the buildings on our Guildhall campus.
There are daily direct trains from London Waterloo and London Victoria (2 hours), and regular services from Southampton, Bournemouth, Chichester and Brighton.
We’re only a 2-hour journey away from Bristol too.
You can plan your route with National Rail or Trainline .
Take the M275 into Portsmouth (signed 'Portsmouth West') whether approaching from the east (A3(M)/A27) or the west (M27 Junction 12).
Ignore the junctions signed to Southsea and Hilsea.
As with any city, parking in Portsmouth is limited.
Therefore it's best to use the park-and-ride service at the entrance to the city on the M275.
The cost is £4 per vehicle and buses run into Portsmouth every 12 minutes.
Up to 5 people can travel using 1 ticket.
If you want to park in the city, follow signs for 'Historic Waterfront/Seafront' from the end of the M275.
This takes you across 3 roundabouts to traffic lights by Unicorn Gate (entrance to the naval dockyard) and St John's Cathedral.
These are the traffic lights at the top of the Guildhall Campus map – the route you take from here depends which part of the campus you're heading to.
Car parks and limited on-street parking is available in the city centre for a small charge, but spaces fill up quickly.
You’ll need a visitor’s permit if you want to use a University car park.
To apply for one, email car.parking@port.ac.uk .
Sorry, we can’t guarantee you a space in advance.
If you have an electric car, there are a number of charging points around the city that you can use.
You can find the locations for all of the points using the carwow interactive tool .
Students and University staff can park at Gunwharf Quays Car Park during weekdays for the discounted rate of £5 for up to 12 hours per day.
The discounted rate is not available on weekends, during Portsmouth school holidays and one-off events.
Please visit the car park office at Gunwharf Quays (G Section of the Upper Basement Level) at the start of the day to get your ticket validated for the discount, you will have to provide valid student or staff ID.
Gunwharf Quays can also offer student discount at Wickham Street Car Park - 3 Wickham Street, PO1 3EF on weekdays during school holidays.
If you have any questions, please call 02392 836773 or email gunwharf.quays@apcoa.com
The University has a number of car parks with spaces available on a first-come first-served basis
University car parks are open to the general public and staff/students without permits outside of permit hours (from 4.00pm - 7.00am Mon - Fri and anytime at weekends) using the pay and display tariff.
Parking charges can be paid by using the Pay By Phone app or by visiting paybyphone.co.uk .
You can also pay by phoning 0330 400 7275.
You will need the location number of the car park which will be displayed on signage at your chosen car park.
EV charging is also available in selected car parks using the SEE-V app at 55p per KW.
You will need to pay for both the car park charge and EV charge separately.
4.00pm - 7.00am
Up to 2 hours
£3.20
Up to 3 hours
£4.20
Up to 4 hours
£6.00
Up to 5 hours
£7.00
Up to 7 hours
£9.00
Up to 9 hours
£12.00
Up to 10 hours
£14.00
Up to 15 hours
£16.00
All Tariffs expire at 7.00am
Same charges as above
All tariffs expire Monday 7.00am
Payment can be made using the Pay By Phone app, website or by phoning 0330 400 7275
Vehicles can be parked for up to 15 hours as long as they are not during permit hours.
Please refer to charges above for parking rates.
Those without University parking permits are able to park using the pay as you go tariff at the following times:
You can easily extend your parking session by using the same method you used previously to pay for your parking.
Simply select ‘extend’ and pay for the additional time you wish to use.
There are 17 pay and display car parks as listed below.
Car parks available for public parking will have relevant signage.
Ravelin Sports Centre car park is for sports centre use only.
The car parks are monitored by ANPR and failure to comply with terms and conditions of the car park will result in a £70 parking charge.
You will be charged for the full pre-paid session whether you stay for the full session or not.
This applies even if you move your car to a different car park as you would still pay for the previous session before it runs out and will need to pay for the new session in the new car park.
Support with the app can be found at paybyphone.co.uk .
Yes, you are welcome to use the EV parking spaces as long as you park outside of the permit hours listed above.
There is an additional charge for using the chargers which is separate to the parking charges.
To use the charging stations simply download the SEE-V app, register and set up payment details, plug in and start charging.
Charging will cost 55p per KW and drivers will need to move the vehicle once charging is complete to avoid idle fees.
Please note that vehicles cannot be left in charging bays for long term or overnight parking.
Below is a map of the University car parks with total spaces, disabled bays, and EV charging points.
If you're travelling to Portsmouth from one of the major London airports, taxis are fairly expensive, costing between £100 and £200.
For this reason, we don't recommend taking a taxi for your journey.
If you do choose to take a taxi, you should book it in advance to get the best offers possible.
Once you arrive in Portsmouth, taxis are common and journeys will generally cost no more than £15 to £20.
Regular daily direct coach services run to Portsmouth from London, Bristol, Birmingham, Heathrow and other locations around the country.
All these services call at The Hard Interchange by Portsmouth Harbour railway station, which is a 15-minute walk from our Guildhall campus.
You can find out coach times and routes with National Express and megabus .
For all international connections, we’re only 1 hour 30 minutes from both Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
Southampton International – which has regular flights to Paris, Cherbourg, the Channel Islands, Belfast, Glasgow and more – is just 30 minutes by car and easy to reach by train too.
There are daily sailings between Portsmouth and Caen, Le Havre and St Malo in France.
There are also twice-weekly services to Bilbao and Santander in Spain, and regular services to Jersey and Guernsey.
There are crossings each day to the Isle of Wight too, by Hovercraft , passenger catamaran , and passenger/car ferry .
A passenger ferry also runs across the harbour to Gosport.
Our University bus is available during term-time.
The circular route runs from Monday to Friday, close to where many students live in Southsea.
Portsmouth has excellent city bus services too.
You can catch local and intercity buses from the main bus station at The Hard Interchange, next to Portsmouth Harbour railway station.
There is also a park and ride from the M275 terminal with stops in the centre of the University campus.
Portsmouth is fairly flat and there's plenty to see, so the best way to discover the city is on foot or by bike.
You’ll find plenty of footpaths and cycleways to follow across the city.
Whether you’re looking for information about local cycle routes, walking maps, or links to public transport you can plan your journey using My Journey Hampshire or the Breeze travel app.
Blue badge holders can park free of charge in most Portsmouth City Council car parks and most on-street parking spaces.
If you have special requirements, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/legal/company-information:
This page provides information to fulfil the requirements of Annex H of the Model Financial Memorandum between The Office for Students (formerly HEFCE) and institutions (July 2010/19).
This information will be updated no later than six months after the end of the previous academic year.
University of Portsmouth Higher Education Corporation
University of Portsmouth and Portsmouth University (Board 4 October 2006 Min 8.5)
The University of Portsmouth is an exempt charity.
An exempt charity is an institution established in England and Wales for charitable purposes which is exempt from registration with, and direct regulation by, the Charity Commission for England and Wales.
As such, it does not have a charity number or registered business number.
The Office for Students (OfS) is the principal regulator for universities in England that are exempt charities.
The Instrument of Government sets out the constitution for, the officers, and the role of the Board of Governors.
The Articles set out the rules for the conduct of the University, procedures for the Board of Governors and Academic Council, the appointment of senior officers of the University and other matters.
This list of the Trustees includes any additional responsibilities that Trustees hold outside of the University.
The University's full audited financial statements or published accounts are presented online.
Annual Report of the Renumeration Committees 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-ambition/sustainability:
Explore the environmental policies and sustainable procedures we have in place, and discover how they're making a real impact
To reach this goal, we will:
We’re aiming to become a climate-positive university by 2030 .
We’re one of only a handful of universities to set such an ambitious target.
By continually improving our sustainability practices, we’re working towards a low-carbon future to minimise our impact on the environment.
Our research is finding innovative and sustainable solutions to major issues threatening the future of our planet and the health of our environment.
We’re already making a positive impact.
Our researchers have developed a plastic-digesting enzyme that could help solve the plastic pollution crisis by breaking down plastic in days, not years.
And our research is tackling other vital issues shaping the future, from climate change to low-carbon design.
Find out more about our research into Sustainability and the Environment .
Our research impact is measured in relation to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as reported in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2022 .
The University of Portsmouth ranks in 3 sustainability categories*
*These rankings are decided based on research, stewardship, outreach and teaching.
We're also ranked No.
25 in the UK for SDG8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and No.
26 in the UK for SDG16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions).
Our Clean Growth UK partnership – a pioneering network of forward-thinking green businesses – was a finalist in the Green Gown Awards 2021 , which recognise exceptional sustainability initiatives being undertaken by UK universities and colleges.
Through strategic partnerships in the city, we’re promoting long-term environmental sustainability and raising the quality of life in our community.
We’re working with our partners to assess the climate risks to our city via the Portsmouth Climate Action Board , chaired by Professor Steve Fletcher, Lead of our Sustainability and the Environment research theme.
We also run Portsmouth Climate Festival in collaboration with the City Council.
As a civic university , we're committed to supporting the local community through our research and activities.
As part of Revolution Plastics , we’re working with partners to facilitate the city’s transition to a sustainable future, particularly in relation to plastic pollution and recycling.
We’ve started a city-wide survey to map Portsmouth’s plastic litter and we’re working with Portsmouth Football Club to arrange beach cleans.
We encourage all members of our community to live, think and work with sustainability in mind, and make positive changes by using less energy and water, reducing waste, and choosing sustainable travel options .
Sustainability is included in our staff induction to support staff in taking meaningful environmental and climate action in the workplace.
We offer advice on sustainable travel to campus , including a term time bus service as part of the University's Travel Plan .
For students we also share guidance on how to live sustainably at university — like eating green and recycling in the city , including our specialist recycling points on campus.
Our Students’ Union provides opportunities for students to help the environment via groups such as the Eco Society.
Many of our degree programmes directly provide students with knowledge and experience relevant to sustainability, such as BEng (Hons) and MEng Renewable Energy Engineering , and courses in the School of the Environment and Life Sciences .
We're continually reviewing our curriculum to identify opportunities for our students to enhance their knowledge on sustainability.
All aspects of society need to adapt to protect our planet.
This is why we’re embedding environmental sustainability and leadership in other disciplines too.
Many of our Business students can study the module 'Responsible and Sustainable Business', our Engineering students study the module 'Sustainable Development and Environmental Management' and our English and Creative Writing students can study the module 'Ecocrisis in the Literary Imagination’.
Our ambition of becoming a climate positive university by 2030 guides every aspect of our operations – from development of our campus and environmentally friendly catering to sustainable corporate systems and procedures.
We’ve already made progress:
Since 2009, we've reduced our carbon emissions by 50%.
We've achieved this through reducing our electricity, gas, water and fuel usage, and improving our waste disposal.
We're continuing to pursue all opportunities to reduce our emissions and minimise our impact on climate change.
All our electricity is sourced from renewable supplies.
We continue to install LED lighting solutions across our campus and have taken greater control of how we heat our buildings.
This helps us reduce our emissions and continue to work towards our goal of becoming carbon positive.
Other sustainability initiatives include:
Throughout the year, we manage and monitor the environmental impact of our estate through our environmental management system.
We've been certified to the international standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001, since 2012.
And we’ve developed an institution-wide plan to achieve a sufficient level for monitoring and controlling our environmental impact.
To achieve the ISO standard, the following operations were rigorously audited: energy efficiency, carbon emissions, recycling, water management, construction, travel, biodiversity and catering.
Our Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2018–2020 provides an overview of these areas and we measure our carbon emissions.
Our measured carbon emissions from the use of energy, water, vehicles  and waste disposal are at their lowest since 2009–10.
Since 2011, we've increased our recycling rate from 40% to 70%.
Our recycling programme saves valuable materials from going to landfill and any non-recyclable waste is processed in an energy recovery facility to create electricity.
We monitor our waste at the university through microchip technology.
Our wheelie bins are tagged, enabling us to collect data on the volume of waste and how often these are being emptied.
Through this process we can calculate our recycling rates.
The more we recycle, the more money we save, and the less of an impact we have on our environment.
We ensure all our waste is disposed of safely.
As part of our recycling programme at Portsmouth, we've installed separate bins for recycling, food, liquids and batteries.
Any non-recyclable items are extracted by our contractor, Suez .
Our waste material is sorted and processed via their materials recycling facility near Bristol.
The separated waste is then managed by different means.
Food waste is anaerobically digested , while general waste (recycling contaminated with food or liquid) goes to a waste-to-energy plant.
At the University of Portsmouth we only use paper and board from sustainable and recycled accredited resources in our printed communications.
The printers we use are accredited to environment management standards, and use lithographic vegetable based inks.
We use specialist finishes such as laminates, which are manufactured from sustainable wood pulp, and the print itself is fully recyclable.
If you would like to know more about our sustainable print please email corporate.communications@port.ac.uk
Explore our policies and accreditations that relate to our environmental sustainability objectives at Portsmouth.
Can't find what you're looking for?
Search all our policies and standards .
Our Director of Estates, Tahir Ahmed, chairs the University's Environmental Sustainability Working Group in collaboration with the Campus Services and the Director of the Sustainability and the Environment research theme .
Our Energy and Environment Team consists of two professionals with a remit that covers sustainable travel, carbon management, environmental legislation compliance systems, energy, water and waste contracts, and associated budget and invoice management.
The team includes:
The team cover operational sustainability project improvements in the region of £200,000 annually.
There are a further eight staff and an external Advisory Council engaged with our Revolution Plastics initiative, which aims to find solutions to global plastic pollution.
If you would like to speak to the team, reach out to us at sustainability@port.ac.uk.
6 September 2024
8 March 2024
22 November 2023
30 May 2023
4 May 2023
15 August 2025
21 July 2025
14 February 2025
19 November 2024
1 July 2024
Discover more about how we're developing our campus with award winning buildings and learn about our approach to sustainable food on campus.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/policies-and-standards/modern-slavery-statement:
This is the ninth statement that the University of Portsmouth (“the University”) has made pursuant to the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The University remains fully committed to tackling human trafficking in its supply chains and in all other areas of our activity.
In this statement we will provide an update on the actions we committed to achieve in our previous annual statement and, reflecting on our previous activity in this area, we will set out the progress that the University plans to take over the coming twelve months to ensure, as far as possible, that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in any part of our organisation or our supply chains.
The core business of the University is teaching, research and innovation, undertaken by five academic faculties, comprising of their own schools and departments, which are supported by a range of professional services departments.
The University is based in Portsmouth, but also operates a campus in Walthamstow Central in London.
The University’s Board of Governors is responsible for determining the educational character and mission of the University and for the oversight of its activities.
The Board of Governors conducts its work through a number of committees.
The University Executive Board is the senior executive decision-making body of the University.
It is chaired by the Vice Chancellor and its membership includes the Executive Deans of each of the University’s five faculties, the Principal of the London Campus, the Senior Deputy Vice Chancellor/Provost, the Deputy Vice Chancellors, the Executive Director of Corporate Governance, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief People Officer.
The University has approximately 3,600 staff and 31,000 students (this is the total student headcount inclusive of distance learning students and those students registered with collaborative partners).
The University is supported by a centralised procurement and contracting function located within professional services with transactional purchasing devolved to individual faculties and professional services departments.
The University is a charity, and is regulated by the Office for Students.
As a public body, the University complies with the Public Contracts Regulations 2015.
Our annual external spend is approximately £110 million.
The diverse nature of the University’s business and requirements involves dealing with a large number of suppliers, their subcontractors and their supply chains.
The University’s supplier base ranges from cutting-edge scientific/engineering equipment and materials required for the delivery of teaching, research and innovation to the goods, systems and services necessary to support the operation of a successful University.
Modern slavery is considered as part of each category or project strategy where appropriate in terms of likelihood of incidence, and any relevant mitigating actions required are identified.
The University conducts a large proportion of its spend via higher education purchasing consortia and other frameworks to which is has access.
Doing so means that a) the University can take advantage of specialist procurement staff working within those consortia and b) the buyers acting on behalf of the frameworks can have greater influence on the policy and procedures of their suppliers that individual institutions are able to exert.
In particular, the University is a member of, and procures via, the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC).
This membership provides the University with access to other higher education purchasing consortia, such as the London Universities Purchasing Consortium (LUPC).
Through LUPC the University has access to the services of Electronics Watch which works to protect the rights of electronics workers globally.
Overall, the University’s spend via consortia and frameworks was approximately 52%.
The University’s procurement team includes staff who are members of the SUPC/LUPC and HEPA Responsible Procurement Groups, which deal with social and environmental aspects of supply chain management, including moving forward with the modern slavery agenda.
Procurement staff are also represented on the University’s Sustainability Strategic Delivery Group set up to deliver against the University’s strategic priorities.
Where appropriate to their roles, staff hold procurement professional qualifications and engage with continuous professional development activities.
The procurement team is supported by the University Solicitor and the Executive Director of Corporate Governance.
The University has a number of policies that are relevant to the identification of modern slavery risks and the steps it takes to prevent slavery and human trafficking in its operations.
All policies are available to staff on our staff intranet and many are also publicly available online at https://www.port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/policies-and-standards .
Our Instrument of Government, Articles of Government , and our Financial Regulations provide our overarching governance framework.
The Procurement Policy and Procurement Manual set out how we make purchases in compliance with the law and our obligations, include our modern slavery obligations.
Our HR policies and guidance set out our expectations of our staff, and the requirements applicable to recruitment, UKVI compliance, and the use of employment agencies.
The Risk Management Policy sets out the University’s approach to risk management and the mechanisms it employs to identify, analyse and manage risk, including compliance risks and modern slavery risks.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy Statement sets out the University’s commitment to promote fair treatment for all.
The Ethical and Sustainable Investment Statement includes details of the principles we apply when selecting investments.
Our Ethics Policy provides a framework for professional practice and decision-making on ethical issues as they arise in the work of the University.
Our Whistleblowing Policy encourages all our staff, students, contractors, consultants, suppliers, and the general public to report concerns about any aspect of service provision, conduct of officers and others acting on behalf of the University, including our supply chain.
The policy is designed to make it easy to make disclosures without fear of discrimination and/or victimisation.
We undertake targeted training on modern slavery and in related areas, such as safeguarding.
Our annual modern slavery statements are reviewed and approved by our Executive Director of Corporate Governance, the University Executive Board, Audit and Risk Committee and our Board of Governors each year.
Issues arising in-year are escalated appropriately.
In the twelve months to 31 July 2024, we have:
conducted a review of our recruitment processes in identified at-risk countries, which included updating our recruitment guidelines to ensure compliance with anti-trafficking measures and conducted additional training for our recruitment teams on identifying and mitigating risks of trafficking;
begun to roll out a communications programme to create awareness amongst staff of how to support students at risk of exploitation and further educate students on the support available to them.
In particular:
all Designated Safeguarding Leads have attended training that includes specific reference to modern slavery, enhancing their ability to identify and support students at risk;
the new safeguarding policy has been published and communicated to all staff via the Staff Newsletter, asking all staff to update their safeguarding training, and wider awareness has been promoted through FESEC committees;
we have plans in place to implement a training program for support staff and the wider university community on topics such as safeguarding and sexual misconduct, which will include awareness of exploitation risks; and
the creation of the Student Life (Welfare) team provides a new channel for educating students on available support;
aligned practice across the Corporate Governance and Student Wellbeing services to provide information, safeguarding and reporting options to mitigate any risk of students being trafficked or otherwise abused as workers; including:
the establishment of the University Safeguarding Board and the Student Risk & Safeguarding Review Group;
the implementation of a centralised system for recording student vulnerability and a working group established to improve data sharing and reporting permitting more aligned practices; and
use of a standardised "Raise a Concern" form as a reporting option across the University;
maintained the close collaborative relationship between the University’s procurement resources and our Corporate Governance function, including UKVI and legal expertise, to improve support available;
begun the process of updating our standard purchasing terms to align with best practice, particularly in the areas of risk management and compliance (including on modern slavery), alongside a detailed review of our Procurement Policy review, slated for implementation in March 2025; and
continued to engage with our sector consortia for large, strategic procurement activities, and sharing of best practice with other institutions, particularly in-region.
In the next year, we will:
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the University’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/policies-and-standards/privacy-policy:
The University of Portsmouth processes personal data in a way that complies with the relevant data protection legislation .
We may collect some personal data from you through submission forms or surveys hosted on these University webpages and, as you might expect, we use cookies on the website.
Further detail on the use of cookies please read our cookies policy .
Each time you submit information through the University's webpages, there will be an explanation as to why we need that information.
Generally we need your contact details in order to respond to an enquiry, but we may ask you if we can use those details for subsequent communications in relation to the business of the University.
If you agree to us retaining your data for this purpose, you retain the right, at any time, to ask us to remove your details from our records either by responding to any email stating that you wish to "unsubscribe" or by contacting the University's Data Protection Officer directly on +44 (0)23 9284 3642 .
Your personal data will be held securely on University servers and deleted when no longer needed.
If we need to send any data to your home address we may provide those details to our third party mailing house in order to meet your request but we will not share your contact details with any other third parties.
If you contact the University by email, we keep a record of that correspondence for the purpose of conducting University business.
We do not add any email addresses received in this way to any mailing databases and again, we do not provide them to third parties.
For more information on how we process personal data, please see the University's Data Protection policy .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/legal/terms-and-conditions/website-terms-and-conditions:
Please read these terms and conditions carefully before using the site.
These terms of use refer to the following additional terms, which also apply to your use of our site:
Our Privacy Policy , which sets out the terms on which we process any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us – by using our site, you consent to such processing and you warrant that all data provided by you is accurate
Our Acceptable Use Policy , which sets out the permitted uses and prohibited uses of our site.
When using our site, you must comply with this Acceptable Use Policy.
Our Cookies Policy , which sets out information about the cookies on our site.
We amend these terms from time to time.
Every time you wish to use our site, please check these terms to ensure you understand the terms that apply at that time.
We may update and change our site from time to time to reflect changes to our courses, staffing, policies, our users' needs and our priorities.
Our site is made available free of charge.
We do not guarantee that our site, or any content on it, will always be available or be uninterrupted.
We may suspend or withdraw or restrict the availability of all or any part of our site for business and operational reasons.
We will try to give you reasonable notice of any suspension or withdrawal.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access our site through your Internet connection are aware of these terms of use and other applicable terms and conditions, and that they comply with them.
We are the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights in our site, and in the material published on it.
Those works are protected by copyright.
You may print off copies, and may download extracts, of any page(s) from our site for your personal use and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation, family or friendship group to content posted on our site.
You must not modify the paper or digital copies of any materials you have printed off or downloaded in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
You must not use any part of the content on our site for commercial purposes without first obtaining our permission to do so.
If you print off, copy or download any part of our site in breach of these terms of use, your right to use our site will cease immediately and you must, at our option, return or destroy any copies of the materials you have made.
The content on our site is provided for general information only.
It is not intended to amount to advice on which you should rely.
You must obtain professional or specialist advice before taking, or refraining from, any action on the basis of the content on our site.
Although we make reasonable efforts to update the information on our site, we make no representations, warranties or guarantees, whether express or implied, that the content on our site is accurate, complete or up to date.
Where our site contains links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only.
Such links should not be interpreted as approval by us of those linked websites or information you may obtain from them.
We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources.
Whether you are a consumer or a business user:
We do not exclude or limit in any way our liability to you where it would be unlawful to do so.
This includes liability for death or personal injury caused by our negligence or the negligence of our employees, agents or subcontractors and for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation.
If you are a business user:
We exclude all implied conditions, warranties, representations or other terms that may apply to our site or any content on it.
We will not be liable to you for any loss or damage, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty, or otherwise, even if foreseeable, arising under or in connection with: use of, or inability to use, our site; or use of or reliance on any content displayed on our site.
In particular, we will not be liable for:
loss of profits, sales, business, or revenue
business interruption
loss of anticipated savings
loss of business opportunity, goodwill or reputation
any indirect or consequential loss or damage
If you are a consumer user:
Please note that we only provide our site for domestic and private use.
You agree not to use our site for any commercial or business purposes, and we have no liability to you for any loss of profit, loss of business, business interruption, or loss of business opportunity.
If defective digital content that we have supplied, damages a device or digital content belonging to you and this is caused by our failure to use reasonable care and skill, we will either repair the damage or pay you compensation.
Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload content to our site, or to make contact with other users of our site, you must comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policy .
You warrant that any such contribution does comply with those standards, and you will be liable to us and indemnify us for any breach of that warranty.
This means you will be responsible for any loss or damage we suffer as a result of your breach of warranty.
Any content you upload to our site will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary.
You retain all of your ownership rights in your content, but you are required to grant us and other users of our site a limited licence to use, store and copy that content and to distribute and make it available to third parties.
We also have the right to disclose your identity to any third party who is claiming that any content posted or uploaded by you to our site constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or of their right to privacy.
We have the right to remove any posting you make on our site if, in our opinion, your post does not comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use.
You are solely responsible for securing and backing up your content.
We do not guarantee that our site will be secure or free from bugs or viruses.
You are responsible for configuring your information technology, computer programmes and platform to access our site.
You should use your own virus protection software.
You must not misuse our site by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material that is malicious or technologically harmful.
You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our site, the server on which our site is stored or any server, computer or database connected to our site.
You must not attack our site via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of service attack.
By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990.
We will report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach, your right to use our site will cease immediately.
You may link to any page on our website, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it.
You must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
The website in which you are linking must comply in all respects with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policy .
If you are a consumer, please note that these terms of use, their subject matter and their formation, are governed by English law.
You and we both agree that the courts of England and Wales will have exclusive jurisdiction except that if you are a resident of Northern Ireland you may also bring proceedings in Northern Ireland, and if you are resident of Scotland, you may also bring proceedings in Scotland.
If you are a business, these terms of use, their subject matter and their formation (and any non-contractual disputes or claims) are governed by English law.
We both agree to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/legal/accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to the following domains:
This website is run by University of Portsmouth.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or Braille:
We'll consider your request and get back to you within 10 working days.
We're always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we're not meeting accessibility requirements, contact:
websupport@port.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the accessibility regulations).
If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
It is possible to visit our offices in person.
You must contact us before your visit, and we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter.
Find out how to contact us https://www.port.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us .
University of Portsmouth is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
On some of our forms:
There are currently no issues on www.port..ac.uk, myport.port.ac.uk and sport.port.ac.uk  that we consider to be a disproportionate burden to fix.
The University of Portsmouth makes use of some free third-party tools which are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
We are aware of some accessibility issues on things like:
We will make sure that these tools are updated when the accessibility issues have been resolved.
Also, some of the University’s content owners may choose to link to third-party content hosted on external websites that are not owned, paid for, or developed by the University of Portsmouth.
This content may not be accessible.
We intend to produce a publicly available accessibility roadmap by the end of September 2025.
This statement was prepared on 05 September 2023.
It was last reviewed on 5 April 2025.
This website was last tested on 02 January 2025.
Some new pages, interactive elements and content has also be tested since that date.
The test was carried out by Test Partners Ltd .
We followed GOV.UK guidance on deciding how to check the University of Portsmouth's websites as follows:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence:
Make us your firm first choice, and you're guaranteed a room in halls
Self catered
View hall
These halls of residence are University of Portsmouth-owned buildings, therefore your contractual agreement will be with the University of Portsmouth.
Please refer to the application portal for the terms, conditions and cancellation policy for these buildings.
Standard room
Large room
Studio room
Large studio room
These halls of residence are Unite Students-owned buildings, therefore your contractual agreement will be with Unite Students.
This hall of residence is owned by Yugo, therefore your contractual agreement will be with Yugo.
Please refer to the application portal for the terms, conditions and cancellation policy for this building.
Catered
Extra large room
Explore our accommodation, the city, our campus and more!
Virtual Experience
You will receive an email from our Student Housing team with details of how to login to our Student Home Portal to secure your room in halls when we open our 2025-26 Halls Application process, which will be from end of February 2025 onward.
If you're applying to join as a new, full-time undergraduate student, we guarantee you a room in halls if you make us your firm first choice, and meet our accommodation deadline.
We can find you a quieter room or a place in single-sex accommodation if you'd prefer.
But don't bring your car unless you're a blue badge holder.
If you're staying in halls, you'll need to leave any pets at home.
We know how important it is to have a safe, comfortable living space at uni.
That's why all of our halls of residence are signed up to the Student Accommodation Code (for University-owned halls) or National Code (for halls owned by our nominated providers).
These codes protect your rights to:
All applications for our halls have to be made online.
We'll send you a link to our online application system when we contact you after you've firmly accepted your place to study with us.
Download our accommodation brochure .
You can pay your tuition, accommodation or language course fees online today.
Find out more about making a payment .
We're happy to help.
Call us on +44(0)23 928 43214
Please note: prices shown are for the 2025-26 academic year.
Prices are rounded to the nearest pound for clarity, based upon a 40 week contract (prices and contract length are subject to confirmation).

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ucas-points-calculator:
The UCAS system gives most qualifications you can study in the UK after the age of 16, such as A levels, T levels, BTECs and music exams, a points value.
The higher the qualification grade, the more points you get.
You'll often see a UCAS points total in university course entry requirements.
Use our UCAS points calculator to work out how many UCAS points you have.
The tariff calculator will allow you to see what grades you need to get into your preferred course at Portsmouth.
Use our UCAS points calculator to find your points total.
0
Great news!
Based on your points, it looks like we have a course for you!
Call 023 9284 8075 now to discuss your options.
Now that you've calculated your UCAS points score, you can see which of our courses you qualify for.
UCAS tariff points are a way of showing the entry requirements for an undergraduate degree course.
UCAS gives each qualification and grade a certain number of points.
This UCAS calculator uses the data supplied by UCAS.
UCAS points are particularly useful if you haven’t done A levels, or you’ve got a mix of A levels and other qualifications.
Your UCAS tariff, or score, will normally need to match or exceed the UCAS tariff of a particular course in order for you to be eligible to apply, though there are sometimes exceptions to this.
Each of your existing qualifications is given a numerical score by UCAS, based on the type of qualification and your grade.
These scores are totalled up to produce your overall UCAS score.
Some international qualifications have an assigned UCAS score for each achieved grade, others do not.
The easiest way to get a sense of where you stand with your international qualifications is to visit our ' Your Country ' page, and find the information for the country in which you gained your qualifications.
This will depend on the degree courses you're looking to apply for.
Search our courses to find your ideal course and see if your UCAS score is high enough to apply.
At Portsmouth our normal UCAS points requirement is between 112-120 points.
In terms of the tariffs that individual institutions offer, this can vary significantly, depending on the university in question.
Average course entry requirements can range between 95 UCAS points to as high as 208 UCAS points.
These numbers are averages, so the actual UCAS points tariff for a particular course can vary considerably.
At Portsmouth our normal UCAS points requirement is between 112-120 points.
In terms of the average UCAS scores that students receive, this data is much harder to come by, and largely meaningless; your UCAS score is only relevant to the course(s) you want to study.
If the total we've given you doesn't look right, the first step is to re-enter your qualification details and make sure you didn't make a mistake.
If the total still looks wrong, get in touch with our admissions team using the contact details below, and they will advise you.
UCAS has assigned points to most post-16 UK qualifications, but not all of them.
If you can't find your qualification in the calculator contact our admissions team and they will help you.
You can find out more about what's included in the calculator on the UCAS website .
UCAS tariff points are a guide.
Universities and colleges don’t have to accept the tariff value UCAS gives a particular qualification, although in most cases they do.
Occasionally a university will feel that the content of a qualification isn’t fully relevant for a particular course.
In these circumstances they may tell you that the qualification is worth fewer points than UCAS has suggested.
Use our course search page to find your perfect course, get some advice on how to apply or get all your questions answered with our ' getting started ' information.
Don't panic.
Even if you don't quite meet the entry requirements, we'd still encourage you to apply as you could still get a place.
Give us a call and we'll be happy to talk to you about it.
+44 (0)23 9284 8075

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-contact-us:
If you are a current applicant and have a question regarding your application, please contact our Admissions team:
Speak to our friendly team about your results, your course, your application or anything you need to discuss:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-accommodation:
Yes, our newly refurbished Langstone Flats and Trust Halls offer low rent and a dedicated term-time bus service.
E n-suite rooms from £131 a week and shared bathroom rooms from £110 per week.
Just a short walk from the outstanding beauty of Langstone Harbour and Milton Common, these halls offer modern facilities and an on-site laundrette.
Langstone Flats
Trust Hall
We have plenty of options - en-suite rooms from £131 a week and shared bathroom rooms from £110 per week.
Explore halls
Not at all, if you wish to live in private rented accommodation you can!
There are usually students in shared accommodation looking to fill an extra room.
Your private rented options include:
The University has its own search engine to help you find your Clearing accommodation in the private sector if you're not going to live in halls.
It's called Studentpad, and every house, flat, lodging and private hall listed on it is officially registered with our Student Housing team.
Using Studentpad means that you can:
Explore Studentpad
Whether you decide to live in halls or in private rented accommodation we offer the same 24/7 welfare advice and support to all new students.
Of course, our friendly student housing team are happy to help with any queries.
Call: +44 (0) 2392 843 214 Email: student.housing@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/clearing/our-clearing-checklist-2025:
Clearing is a great opportunity to consider your options, whether you want to change your mind about your course or university, or didn’t get the grades you were hoping for.
Being prepared will help you feel more confident and assured about the process.
That’s why we’ve created a Clearing checklist that takes you through each step.
It will help you learn how to prepare for Clearing this year.
You can refer back to it at any time and work with your tutor, your parents or a friend to complete it.
The first task on the checklist is learning about what Clearing actually is and who it’s for.
Clearing is a period outside of the normal UCAS application window, where students can apply for places at a university that haven’t already been filled.
It’s a fantastic opportunity for students who:
You’re eligible to apply through Clearing if you haven’t already accepted an offer from another university, and there are spaces available on the course you are interested in.
Most courses available through Clearing will be for full-time, on-campus undergraduate courses.
This year Clearing starts on the 5 July and ends on the 21 October*.
If you have any questions, contact one of our experts at admissions@port.ac.uk (for Home applicants).
* Please note this is the date UCAS keeps their Clearing service open and we can close applications earlier than this.
Alongside choosing the right course, you’ll want to know what it’s like to live and study in Portsmouth.
To help you make a decision, hear from our students themselves .
Their experience will give you a unique insight into life here.
They’ll also have tips on how to prepare for Clearing at the university.
The best place to get to know Portsmouth, is to visit in person at one of our Open Days .
Y ou’ll be able to ask questions to our staff and students.
It’s best to apply to Student Finance as soon as possible, so that you’ll have enough money for living expenses from the beginning of your study.
As soon as you know you want to go to university, read our information on undergraduate fees and student finance .
Whether you’ve changed your mind about what to study, or are curious about what’s available here at the University of Portsmouth, browse through our course list to see what degree you could study.
You’ll find lots of information on our courses pages about the modules you’ll study, the teaching staff and the facilities available to you.
Applicants are encouraged to review the standard entity requirements to see if an interview is required.
Please note, that if an interview is required in the standard entity requirements, it will also be required at Clearing.
If you have a dream career in mind, you could ask your Careers Advisor at your college or school to help you find the best course to get you there.
It’s a good idea to know what accommodation is available to you.
You may want to live in halls during your first year, or move into private housing with a friend.
Whatever you decide, our 24/7 support will be available to you.
Once you’ve accepted your place through Clearing, you’ll receive an email from our student housing team within 24 hours.
This email is your invitation to apply for accommodation.
If you want to secure accommodation with a friend, both of you will need to email student housing and make a request.
You may be considering staying at home during your studies.
If this is the case, please let our admissions team know when you ring our Clearing phone number.
You can apply to Clearing once you have all your final, confirmed exam results.
If you're waiting for results in August, doing all the prep work will get you in the best position possible if you decide to go through Clearing.
Whatever your reason for going through Clearing, we’ll welcome a call from you during the Clearing period.
Now you know what to do for Clearing, the next step is ringing up.
Good luck with your Clearing application this year.
For more information about Clearing, your course, accommodation or our support services, please visit our Clearing Hub.
18 May 2025
2 min read

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/clearing/how-to-apply-through-clearing:
If any of the following apply to you, you’re eligible to apply through Clearing:
Remember, before Results Day you can only apply through Clearing if you already have your final results.
Evangeline Smith, Admissions Officer
This year Clearing starts on July 5th, you can apply once you have your results and you know the course you'd like to study.
Many of our most popular courses are available in Clearing so you're sure to find your ideal degree .
You can also use UCAS Clearing Plus by going to the 'My matches' option in UCAS Hub and selecting the 'I'm interested button' for the courses you're interested in.
Remember that the availability of courses changes rapidly in Clearing, so you need to keep an eye on the latest vacancies.
Make sure you feel ready to call us before you pick up the phone to talk to us about the course you're interested in.
Our advice on how to make a phone call during Clearing tells you everything you'll need to know before you give our friendly Clearing team a call.
You can also come along to our webinar about applying for university through Clearing.
You can book onto one of our Open Days , so if you haven't yet had a chance to visit us in person yet, this is your chance.
You'll be able to explore the city, find out more about our courses, and get a better idea of what it's like to study with us at the University of Portsmouth.
You can approach as many universities as you wish during Clearing.
You can only apply for one university and one course at a time, but there’s no limit to how many times you can apply throughout Clearing.
We advise you to do one application at a time, as this will prevent you from being overwhelmed.
Doing one application at a time will keep you organised with your applications.
Hannah Lloyd, Senior Admissions Officer
If we make you an offer we'll confirm it by email and give you 24 hours to accept it.
We'll ask you to read through our Clearing terms and conditions before you accept an offer.
Our advice on how to accept a Clearing offer .
If you want to take a year out before you start your course, we consider ‘deferred entry’ for some courses during Clearing.
We'll let you know if this option is available for your chosen course when you contact us.
If you previously applied to university through UCAS, you can accept a Clearing offer in your UCAS Hub.
Go to the ‘Your choices’ section of your application and click the 'Add Clearing' choice.
Then enter the details of the course.
Remember:
If you have any difficulty adding your Clearing choice in UCAS, or you've missed the deadline, let us know as soon as possible.
If we offer you a place and you didn't apply through UCAS, follow the link in your email confirmation and complete our online Record of Prior Acceptance form to accept it.
Please be aware that if you already have a UCAS account for this year (even if you just set one up but didn’t apply in the main cycle), we will not be able to process your acceptance this way and you need to add us as a Clearing choice via your UCAS Hub.
Your next step after accepting an offer is to sort out where you're going to live.
After all, it's only a matter of weeks until you start your course.
Our friendly student housing team will get in touch with you to provide details of available accommodation in the area, including our latest hall availability and info on local rented accommodation.
Whether you decide to live in halls or in private rented accommodation we offer the same 24/7 welfare advice and support to all new students.
Not sure what your accommodation options are when you move to Uni?
We've outlined the differences of each to help you decide where to live at university.
Read our expert advice on everything from how to make friends at uni, to balancing living at home while you study.
If you're an EU or international student and you need a visa to study here you need to start the process quickly as visas can take some time to come through.
Or, read our guidance on getting visas .
Once you've formally accepted your offer, sorted your accommodation and checked your student finance application, it's time to get ready for your arrival.
Our guide to joining the university lists everything you need to do before you get here.
Feeling nervous ahead of calling us about Clearing?
Our blog will help you prepare and know what to say when you ring us on or around Results Day.
21 May 2025
We’ve put this Clearing guide for parents and supporters together, to help you assist the student through the Clearing process this year.
12 March 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/clearing/how-to-accept-a-clearing-offer:
Whether you applied through UCAS or directly to us, if you get a verbal offer we will also email you to confirm it with advice on how to accept the offer.
Remember that Clearing places are filled on a first come, first served basis.
Your Clearing offer will only remain open while we have places available and can be withdrawn if the course becomes full.
You can accept your offer from 1pm on Thursday 14th August (Level 3 Results Day).
If we made you an offer through UCAS Clearing, you need to make the University of Portsmouth your Clearing choice on UCAS Hub before your place is confirmed.
Here's how to accept a Clearing offer on UCAS:
Remember you can only accept one offer and once you accept, your original offer will be removed.
Don’t worry if your UCAS Hub takes a while to update.
At busy times and over the weekend it can take up to 48 hours for your confirmation to update on UCAS.
Please call us if you have any concerns at all on 023 9284 8090 .
In your offer email, you will see instructions about accepting an offer.
Please complete our Record of Prior Acceptance Form , which will register your place with UCAS.
There's no need to create a UCAS profile – simply complete the form and we will notify UCAS on your behalf.
We'll be in touch as soon as you accept your offer with details of our Welcome Events and more.
Keep an eye on your emails for next steps.
Once you have firmly accepted your place to study with us, our student housing team will be in touch with details of available accommodation in the area.
Any available hall places are allocated in order of accommodation application receipt, subject to availability – so the sooner you confirm that you will be coming to Portsmouth, the more likely you are to get one of your preferred choices of accommodation.
If you're going to fund your university studies with a UK student loan, make sure your loan application fits your Clearing choice.
Read our useful blog with all the details of changing your student finance.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/clearing/student-finance-for-clearing:
30 April 2025
We’ll walk you through how to update your student finance application after Clearing.
A UK student loan will help you pay your tuition fees and living costs.
The Government provides these loans and you’ll need to apply for them before the start of your course.
If you have any questions about the process our student finance team will be happy to help.
If you've already applied for student finance and then changed your course or university through Clearing, you'll need to update this in your student finance application.
Changing your student finance application is different from updating your UCAS application.
To help you, we’ve listed the steps below.
If you're from England and studying full-time, you’ll need to do the following:
Student Finance England will re-assess your application and contact you if there are any changes to the amount you'll get.
If you're from Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man you’ll need to update your details through your local government or education authority:
If your living situation has also changed due to the course you've chosen through Clearing, you'll need to update this on your student finance application.
For example, if you originally applied for a university close to home and planned to live with your parents, but your Clearing choice means you'll now be living away from home (or vice versa) this will need to be updated on your application.
If you're from England, you can do this at the same time as you update your course or university via Student Finance England.
If you're studying part-time or you're from Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey, or the Isle of Man please consult the instructions above.
If you’ve not applied for a UK student loan yet, do it as soon as you can – it only takes 30 minutes.
All you need to enter in your application is your first choice of university.
If you decide to change your course or university through Clearing, you can make changes as stated above.
A student finance application can take at least six weeks to process, so you might not get your money in time for the start of your course if you leave your student loan application until after Clearing.
However, Student Finance England does its best to give you some of your loan as close to the start of your course as possible.
Supporting your child or partner through their student finance application?
The Student Loans company has a great article on supporting them in three easy steps .
We also have information on how to support your child through Clearing .
If you haven't applied for a UK Student Loan yet, our guide to student loans has more advice on the difference between tuition fees and maintenance loans, how you'll repay your loans, and your eligibility.
University House, Winston Churchill Ave, Southsea, Portsmouth PO1 2UP

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/visa-advice:
Different visa types and guidance
As an international student, you'll need a visa to study in the UK.
There are a few different types of visa available from the UK government, but the type you would normally need is a Student visa.
On this visa, you can study on full-time courses as well as part-time postgraduate courses (as long as they are Level 7 or above on the UK government's Regulated Qualification Framework ).
On these pages, you'll also find visa advice on extra steps you might need to take, how you can travel to other European locations on your visa, and how you can invite friends and family to visit you in the UK.
UKVI is changing the way that students prove their immigration status in the UK.
Physical documents such as BRP cards are being replaced by digital immigration status known as an eVisa .
It is more important than ever to keep all correspondence (emails and letters) you receive relating to your visa.
This is so that you will be able to cross-check your eVisa with all the other information you have about the decision that was made in your case.
It is important that you regularly check and keep all emails and other correspondence from UKVI (Home Office).
You should also regularly check your ‘spam’ folder to see if emails from UKVI have gone there.
Making regular checks is important while you are waiting for a decision from UKVI about your visa application.
UKVI have created some step by step video guides explaining what an eVisa is, how to access your eVisa and use it.
If you can't find the information you need, there are various other sources of help:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/contact-us:
How to reach out from inside or outside of the UK
Moving to another country to study is an important and exciting decision.
We're sure you have lots to think about to make up your mind about where and what to study.
Get in touch with us and we'd be happy to answer your questions.
Find the contact details for our main offices below, or you can contact a representative in your country .
University of Portsmouth Global University House Winston Churchill Ave Southsea Portsmouth PO1 2UP UK
T: +44 23 9284 3488 E: global@port.ac.uk
Follow us on Facebook and Instagram .
You can speak to our specialist staff in key locations including China, Malaysia, India, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Kenya and Egypt.
Contact details can be found below.
E: china.office@port.ac.uk T: +86 216319 1155 F: +86 216319 0086
E: adele.wong@port.ac.uk T: +6012 233 2473
E: india-office@port.ac.uk T: (+91) 956 039 6002 M: (+91) 98 711 94911
E: w estafrica@port.ac.uk T: +234 (0) 807 680 1798
E: bangladesh@port.ac.uk T: (+880) 140 707 6514
E: pakistan @port.ac.u k T: +9234 5005 5109
E: emily.chepkosgei@port.ac.uk T: +254 (0)726 490 347
E: mena@port.ac.uk T: (+201) 030 718 116
We want your time here to be as stress-free and enjoyable as possible, so you can focus on your studies.
That’s why we provide extensive support, including visa and immigration advice for Student Route Visa students.
For advice and support, contact the International Student Advisers at student-visa@port.ac.uk .
You can speak to our London Campus team through the contact details below:
University of Portsmouth London

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-days:
It all feels more real at Open Day – from the hall you’ll call home, to the immersive learning spaces, to the sights and sounds of a city by the sea.
And we’ll introduce you to Portsmouth’s new Connected Degrees , giving you a unique chance to add a paid placement after your final year of study.
It only takes one minute to secure your spot.
Complete the form below and we’ll send you everything you need for a great Open Day experience.
If you need help completing this form or have a question about the event, give our team a call on +44 (0)23 9284 2748 or email opendays@port.ac.uk .
Hi, I'm Marlena and I'm one of the many student ambassadors here at the University of Portsmouth.
I'll be showing you around the campus of the university and we cannot wait to meet you at our next open day.
You'll start your day at the check-in where you’ll collect your guide, and then you can decide where to go from there.
It is really easy to get to campus, whether you're travelling by car or by public transport.
If you decide to use the Park and Ride, you’ll be dropped by check-in and that’s where your day would begin.
To help everything run smoothly on the day, please have your QR code ready to show at check-in which you should have received by email.
Hey, are you okay?
It's just right there.
No worries.
Have a good day.
You can come and ask us questions at any time, even if you just want advice on where to get lunch.
One of my top tips is to use the planner, which is found at the back of the guidebook, to help you plan your day and make sure you don't miss out.
Once you're ready to start, one of the first things to do is to take a campus tour.
I'll be showing you around some of the main uni buildings, including the Ravelin Sports Centre, which is one of the most sustainable sports centres in the UK.
My favourite part of the campus tour is sharing my student experience and also sharing my favourite spots around the uni.
If you'd like to see more of the city, you can hop on the coach tour to see the beach.
My top tip is: you can do this tour at any time of the day so it fits around your key talks.
I’ll also show you the library, which is great if you need a quiet place to study.
During term time, it’s open 24 hours and you can book rooms for group assignments.
When I came to an open day, I immediately felt at home and could picture myself here.
On the day, you’ll have talks covering your uni essentials.
Speak to us about what's important to you and we’ll be able to point you in the right direction.
You might want to learn how to make the most of your student finance.
There’s a talk for that.
Or finding your new home in Portsmouth?
There's a talk for that.
Or how to write a killer personal statement?
And if that's not enough, you can speak to our student support teams at our information fair.
This is what you're here for, right?
To find out if the course is for you.
The talk will most likely be in your course building where you get to see the facilities, and this will help you to picture yourself here.
When I came to the open day, I was able to meet the people who would teach me.
The lecturers were so friendly and informative.
My top tip for you is to give yourselves a bit of time between your lectures because the buildings are about 5 to 10 minutes’ walk apart.
On open days, we have a number of halls open for you to visit.
We'll show you around the rooms, the kitchens and social areas.
There are so many options.
You can choose between catered and non-catered, in the city or by the sea.
There's something for everyone.
We can't wait to see you at our next open day at the University of Portsmouth.
If you've got questions, give our team a call on +44 (0)23 9284 2748 or email opendays@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days/postgraduate-open-days:
Book your place to get to know us better.
Book your place at our next in-person Postgraduate Open Day to talk to our course leaders, researchers, expert support teams and current students.
Complete the form below and we'll send you everything you need for a great experience.
Please note: This event will be hosted in Portsmouth, United Kingdom.
We'd love to share useful course information via email, text or post.
We'll keep your data safe and you can opt out any time by emailing myport@port.ac.uk .
Read our e-privacy statement here.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/how-to-apply-checklist:
Everything you need to know before you start
You can apply online directly from the webpage for your chosen degree – and for select courses with a different application routes, you'll find details of how to apply below.
If you're not a perfect match for the entry requirements listed, don't worry.
We consider every application on an individual basis, taking into account your qualifications, experience and enthusiasm for studying.
If you're not sure, get in touch with our Admissions Team .
You can then apply through the course page - the “Apply” section is at the base of the course page.
It's free to apply online and you can complete one section at a time and return to submit it when you're ready.
Check below to see if your chosen course has a different application process.
To study a PGCE with us, you'll need to apply directly to the Department for Education (DfE) .
To apply for these courses, you need to first contact the Learning at Work department to discuss your work objectives so they can tailor the course to your and your employer's needs.
Please apply for the following courses directly to UCAS :
To make an application to an MRes course , you can apply online.
Additionally, you'll need to include a brief research proposal outlining your area of interest.
Our application process differs for students applying from outside of the UK.
There's much more to consider as an international applicant, such as English language requirements, CAS and visa processes, and varying application deadlines.
Make sure you refer to our international students page to ensure you've got everything covered.
When you apply to join us as a postgraduate student, we consider your application on its own merits.
Our entry requirements will usually include qualifications and grades that you need before you start the course, including any subjects you need to study, where relevant.
If your course needs an interview, we'll invite you to do this after you’ve applied.
If it needs a health or criminal records check, you can usually do this after we’ve offered you a place.
You can check the entry requirements for your chosen course on its course page, under the 'entry requirements' section.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or have different professional or academic experience, then get in touch to explore your options.
Browse courses Get in touch

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/phd/explore-our-projects:
Explore our fully funded and self-funded PhD research projects
If you want to do a PhD, MPhil or MD with us and you don't have your own research idea, you can apply to one of our pre-approved PhD research projects.
Once you've found a project you're interested in, contact one of the supervisors on the project to discuss your interest.
You'll find the supervisor's contact details on the individual project page.
If you've got your own research idea and you've identified a subject area that fits your research, find a supervisor in our Research Portal and contact them directly to discuss your idea.
Get to know us better at one of our events and experience life as a postgrad at Portsmouth.
Book your place

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance:
From student loans to scholarships and bursaries
One of the biggest things you need to sort before you start a Bachelor’s degree or other undergraduate course is how you’ll fund your studies.
You need to make sure you have student finance in place to cover your tuition fees and other study costs.
You’ll also need enough in the bank to cover accommodation and other living costs such as bills, food, laundry, travel and socialising.
Find out everything you need to know about paying for your undergraduate studies, from how much it costs to what student finance is available.
Get the information you need with our handy guide on tuition fees and living costs.
Everything you need to know about tuition fee and maintenance student loans.
Find out how much you get, how to apply and if you're eligible.
Find out if you're eligible to partly or fully fund your study with a bursary or scholarship.
If you have a disability, mental health issue or long term illness, you can apply for additional funding to cover the extra study costs you may have.
There are many different factors used to see if you're eligible for undergraduate student finance.
Find out more today.
Student Finance Centre
+44 (0) 2392 843014
Thinking about joining us as an undergrad?
Book your spot at one of our upcoming Open Days.
What's next after being offered a place?
You'll find the answers to your questions here.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni:
Things to consider during the application process
Join our interactive webinar series on topics from writing a great personal statement, to completing a UCAS application, to the different ways you’ll learn at university – and more.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply:
Explore what to do after you've submitted your UCAS application
Whether you're just picking up your your results, preparing to move, or considering the best study options for you, our guides will help you take your next steps and start your studies with your best foot forwards.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/flexible-study:
Postgraduate study your own way
At the University of Portsmouth, study in your own way.
Choose from a range of postgraduate qualifications, and take the next step towards reaching your goals.
Study online via distance learning, at a time and place that fits with your other commitments.
No matter where you are in the world, you’ll benefit from the University of Portsmouth expertise, dedicated support and wealth of learning resources.
Online and distance learning courses
Choosing a part-time course allows you to study at your own pace.
It also helps spread the cost over a longer time period.
Read some of our top tips for returning to education, working and studying part-time.
Or check out our full range of courses, all of which can be studied on a part-time basis.
Explore part-time courses
At Portsmouth, you can start a number of Master’s courses throughout the year.
That means you can boost your skills and career prospects on a timescale that suits you.
Many of our Master’s courses offer intakes in September, January, May and July.
Explore flexible start courses
Our PhD , MPhil and MD programmes start in February, April and October, and many can be studied part time or via distance learning.
To apply for a postgraduate research course, get in touch with us or speak to your potential supervisor to discuss your research ideas and application.
Search PhD opportunities
Learning at Work courses and Degree Apprenticeships integrate your studies with your career.
Degree Apprenticeships are Government supported schemes which means you don’t pay any tuition fees.
So you can get a university degree and a salary, without worrying about loan repayments.
Learning at Work degrees are embedded within your organisation so you’ll tailor your projects to meet yours and your employer’s objectives.
For more information about your postgraduate study options, have a chat with our team.
Email postgraduate@port.ac.uk .
Conner built a solid foundation for his career by growing his knowledge and understanding with our Postgraduate Engineering Degree Apprenticeship (Engineering Competence) PgDip.
9 January 2023
5 min read

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding:
Find out how much your Master's studies might cost, and explore the different ways of funding your degree
Before you start a postgraduate course such as a Master’s you need to think about the costs involved.
When budgeting, you should take into account your tuition fees, other study costs and your living costs, including rent, food and household bills, plus socialising, travel and insurance.
In this section, we shed light on the cost of uni for a postgraduate student, and point you in the direction of scholarships, bursaries and other sources of funding that could cut the cost of your studies.
Hear from our in-house Student Finance team and current students about how to cover your tuition and living costs as a Master's student.
Top tips from our in-house Student Finance team and some of our current students on how to stay in control of your finances when studying a Master’s at Portsmouth.
7 min read

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training:
Explore our outstanding teacher training courses, from primary teaching to further education
Whether it's within primary, secondary or further education, teaching is a rewarding, inspiring and exciting career where no two days are the same.
Whatever stage of education you're at, there's no better place to get your teaching qualification than here.
We've been a respected teacher training provider for decades, and our secondary school teacher training is rated 'Outstanding' by Ofsted.
Today, we offer a number of different routes into teaching.
Whichever type of teacher training you choose, you'll get the hands-on experience you need to progress, thanks to our partnerships with schools and colleges across the region.
You'll not only gain the skills and knowledge you'll need to become a teacher, through our connections you'll also open the door to job opportunities once you graduate.
There's more good news if you're a final year student at the University of Portsmouth or a graduate of one of our undergraduate degrees - you'll be guaranteed an interview if you apply for our Primary PGCE or Further Education and Skills PGCE courses, regardless of your subject or when you graduated.
Discover our PGCE courses that can set you on the path to becoming a teacher.
Whether you're interested in Primary, Secondary or Further Education, our PGCE courses will help you start a rewarding career in teaching.
Andrew: I really do think that people who come to Portsmouth to teach here will stay here for a really long time.
At Portsmouth, we offer three different programmes for teacher training.
We have a Primary programme which you can come on as a post-grad or an undergrad.
We have a Secondary teacher training programme across a range of subject areas and we have an F.E.
programme so if you want to teach 14 year olds to adults, the Further Education programme is ideal.
Tanya: The reason that I selected the Further Education strand rather than the Secondary was purely because of my specialism.
Being able to teach in Further Education meant that I was able to teach fashion in its fullest.
Andrew: We want the curriculum we offer at Portsmouth to be ambitious and we want it to be personalised for the students.
We put training in to help our trainees to really think about the needs of children that they're going to encounter and I'm really proud that our courses are tailored to be able to do that.
Tanya: When you first start, you will do a week or a few weeks specifically in university learning new skills, etc.
and you then go on to get selected or given your placement.
Andrew: If you're on the Primary or Secondary programme, you have to train in two different schools and that would be the same on any teacher training programme that you're on.
We try to make sure there are contrasts in the placements to really give you a range of experiences and different types of pupils.
That ultimately makes you more employable.
Jack: [For me], placement one at The Priory School in Southsea enabled me to really focus on behaviour management skills.
At St Edmund’s Catholic School for my second placement.
I was then able to really hone in and practice my subject knowledge.
It then allowed me to observe how outstanding lessons were delivered.
Andrew: On the Further Education programme, you spend the whole year in one college and that also has advantages because you really get to know those pupils over a very long period of time.
We put wellbeing and support for trainees right at the heart of what we do, and I think that's what's unique about Portsmouth.
You can train to teach anywhere, but you're not going to necessarily get that level of individual support from everybody.
Jack: I want to be a teacher because I want to make a difference.
I really want to see that I can deliver English lessons and teach English in exciting, stimulating and creative ways.
The University of Portsmouth has been a great experience for this PGCE journey.
Tanya: If I'm honest, the University of Portsmouth has my heart.
It's given me everything that I needed, from my undergraduate to my teaching degree and then beyond that as well.
What more could you want really?
When I first knew that I wanted to get into teaching, I spoke to a couple of friends who I knew were teachers, Portsmouth came up a few times as having a really good programme.
I feel like I want to get in the classroom when I’m not in the classroom.
I keep getting excited about getting back in there and teaching the kids because it’s always so different.
Henry Gregory, PGCE Science
Find out more about the types of teacher training degrees and courses we offer, as well as how to fund and apply for them, by following the links below or in the left hand menu.
Develop the skills you need to become a primary teacher with our primary teaching degrees, including extensive practical experience on teaching placements.
Explore the different ways you can train to teach in a secondary school with us, including our full or part-time PGCE courses in a range of subjects, rated 'Outstanding' by Ofsted.
Explore the further education teaching degrees and courses we offer, which enable you to teach in sixth forms, colleges and training centres.
Find out more about how much teacher training costs, as well the options available to you for funding, including scholarships and bursaries.
If you're looking to take a teacher training course, look through our application guide, and find out what you need to do to apply.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/fast-track-application-route-for-portsmouth-grads:
Apply via our Fast Track application
The fast track application route is open to you if you’re:
Choose your subject area and the course you want to study from the list below.
If you don’t know which subject area your course is in, you can find it on your course page .
The first time you apply you'll need to create an account by selecting the ‘New User’ button.
Any additional applications you wish to make will remember your details and can be accessed using your ‘Log In’ details.
If you’ve got a question, please contact us .
Courses in this subject area start in September 2025 unless stated otherwise.
All courses in this subject area start in September 2025 unless stated otherwise.
Courses in this subject area start in September 2025 unless stated otherwise
All courses in this subject area start in September 2025, unless otherwise stated.
All courses in this subject area start in September 2025 unless otherwise stated.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/contact-us:
Our team is waiting to answer your questions about studying a Master's or PhD at Portsmouth
If you can't find the answers you need in our postgraduate pages and there's something you'd like to know about studying in Portsmouth as a postgrad student, you can contact us using the form below.
Once we've received your message, a member of our postgraduate team will review your request and get back to you as soon as possible.
We are aware that this form may not be fully accessible.
Please read our Website Accessibility Statement which lists known accessibility issues.
Only , if you are experiencing technical issues which mean you cannot read the above form, please contact websupport@port.ac.uk and we’ll provide a copy within 10 working days.
Note: web support can only respond to website form accessibility enquiries.
For all other enquiries, please refer to our contacts page for the correct contact details.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/order-a-digital-degree-guide:
Get your digital copy today

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees:
Discover the different postgraduate research degrees available at Portsmouth
Whether you're a recent graduate or an established professional, our research degrees give you the opportunity to put your knowledge to work.
You'll put your thinking to the test and emerge with skills and experience that'll help you go further in your career, whatever your aspirations are.
We're internationally-recognised for the quality of our research, and you can see a snapshot of our recent work on our research features .
We're also home to superb facilities across our 5 faculties.
And we're developing a creative and collaborative research culture, so whichever research degree you choose, you'll be supported at every step.
There are a number of different research degrees available at Portsmouth too, in a range of different subjects – you can explore them below.
The University of Portsmouth is a conducive and supporting environment for research and learning.
We have students from all over the world here and the weather is fantastic.
Obinwa Ozonze, PhD Computing, Portsmouth Global PhD Scholar

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/how-to-apply:
How to apply for a postgraduate research degree
We believe higher education is for everyone.
We value the experiences, ideas and perspectives that make you unique.
So we'll consider your application on its merits — whatever your academic or professional background.
Whatever postgraduate research path you take, you'll first need to identify which of our research degrees and our subject areas is the best fit for your research.
We recommend you get in touch with the relevant subject area supervisor ahead of applying.
You can discuss your research ideas with them and ensure we have supervisory expertise to support you.
If you are interested in an MD , PhD by Publication or Professional Doctorate , you can find application guidance on the respective webpages.
If you've got your own research idea, or want to discuss your options, start looking for a supervisor whose research interests match yours using our Find a PhD Supervisor tool .
Once you've found someone suitable, contact them directly to have a discussion.
Browse our list of already-approved PhD projects available across most of our subject areas.
These are PhD projects where a supervisory team is already in place.
If you find one that fits your interests, contact the relevant supervisor to discuss your interest.
Once you're ready to apply, follow the 'Apply now' link at the end of the project page.
Some pre-approved projects would require you to submit a brief proposal outlining the main features of your proposed research design.If that is the case it’ll be clearly stated in the project page.
Discover our funded PhD scholarships, see if you're eligible to apply, and contact a project supervisor today.
We know funding your research can be as challenging as undertaking it.
We attract funding for postgraduate research degrees from a range of sources.
Browse our funded PhD opportunities or check out loans and discounts on offer .
We typically expect a minimum of an upper second-class honours degree or a Master’s from an internationally recognised university.
For a Professional Doctorate, your work environment must also be able to support your professional research and development project.
If English isn’t your first language or your first degree is not from an English speaking university, you will need to demonstrate your English language proficiency at a minimum of IELTS band 6.5, with no component score below 6.0.
If applying to a subject area that is particularly linguistically demanding (e.g.
law, applied linguistics, translation studies and English literature) you’ll need IELTS band 7.0 with no component score below 6.5.
You'll need to have the following supporting documentation ready to complete your application:
When you're ready to apply for an MPhil, PhD or a PhD by Publication, please follow the 'Apply now' link on the relevant PhD subject area page .
If you're applying for a pre-approved research project , remember to add the project code to your application form.
The project code can be found at the top of the project page.
If you are applying for an MD or Professional Doctorate , you can find links to the form and guidance on the respective programme pages.
When you apply to us, we'll ask you to declare if you have any relevant criminal convictions.
A 'relevant' conviction is defined as one involving any kind of violence.
These include:
'Spent' convictions are no longer 'relevant' unless you're applying for a teaching, health or social work course or a course involving work with children or vulnerable adults.
A conviction becomes 'spent' if you don't re-offend during your rehabilitation period (as defined by The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974).
If you've declared a relevant criminal conviction in your application, we'll contact you to confirm you've declared it correctly.
Please don't give us details of the offences when you contact us.
Once we have your confirmation, a panel of our senior staff will consider your application confidentially.
For most of our research degrees we offer three intakes a year: October, February and April.
We accept applications all year round, but we suggest applying 2–3 months before your chosen start date — so for a February start, you should apply in the preceding November, for an April start, you should apply in the preceding January and for an October start, you should apply by May or June.
If you can't apply that far in advance, don't worry — we'll do our best to process later applications too.
If you are an international applicant please refer to these recommended deadlines .
Once we've received your application, it usually takes us around 4 weeks to process it and give you an update.
To help us review your application as quickly as possible, you should make sure to include all the relevant supporting documentation (including a proposal, if required).
It's also helpful if you've discussed your research interests with a potential supervisor beforehand.
If your application is successful, you’ll be invited to an interview.
Once your application has been processed, you'll be able to accept your offer via your Student View portal .
At this stage you'll:
If you are considering undertaking a postgraduate research degree, follow our step by step guide to writing the perfect research proposal.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/childhood-youth-studies-and-education-courses:
We've got the course to help you shape the lives of the next generation
A Childhood, Youth Studies, Education and Social Work degree is your opportunity to study how young people learn, grow, and develop, and the perfect preparation for a teaching career, or for jobs within education psychology, social work, and specialist services supporting families.
Whether you’re interested in supporting young people through social work, guiding them through personal challenges, or working in educational settings, our degrees give you the skills and knowledge to help make a real difference in their lives.
And whether you have experience in childcare and education or are just starting out, our Childhood, Youth Studies, Education and Social Work degrees can help you gain the expertise needed to shape how children and young people make sense of the world.
You'll also learn transferable skills – such as communication and problem-solving – that are highly sought after across many other industries, and many of our previous students have graduated into related jobs such as personal tutoring and counselling.
I went on to study for my PGCE and my degree equipped me for this really well.
I was lucky enough to go on to land a job teaching Year One in an amazing school!
Abigail Evans, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies
I secured an internship within the Diversity and Inclusion team at the Royal Academy of Engineering, and I’m now doing a Master's degree in Psychology.
My long-term aspiration is to work in child psychology with a neuropsychology specialism.
Charles Dalby, BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology
Browse all courses
Thinking about joining us?
Explore our degrees by subject area.
Whatever your field of interest, our courses cater to your goals and experience, from accountancy and economics to sports science.
Find your course now.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/computer-games-animation-and-digital-technologies-courses:
Learn to develop, create and build a business in games or animation
Society's appetite for computer games and animation shows no signs of stopping.
As technology advances, so does the depth, complexity and quality of games and entertainment – and that means a growing demand for qualified practitioners with the skills, knowledge and technical expertise required.
A Computer Games, Animation or Digital Technology degree is the perfect preparation for a career in a huge number of fields, from the computer games industry, to web development, TV production, animation, even healthcare.
And with the skills and knowledge you'll gain, you could follow in the footsteps of our previous students, who have graduated into jobs such as virtual and augmented reality developer, 3D artist and modeller, game designer, software engineer, and Javascript developer.
This course offers a lot of variety, and it feels like there's far more passion than from other universities' courses.
It offers great opportunities to talk to industry too.
Damon Wareham, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology
Several of our courses are professionally accredited by JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Support) and TIGA (The Independent Games Association).
Accreditation means your degree ticks the boxes for employers looking for graduates with industry-relevant skills and knowledge.
Find out how to apply for an undergraduate or postgraduate course or a pre-sessional English Language course at the University of Portsmouth.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/computing:
Build a future-proof portfolio and get an industry-accredited qualification to start your career in computing
From banking to communications, the smooth running of the modern world relies on the power of computing, and the importance of computing to the routines of our daily lives is growing all the time.
Computing is also helping find solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing the planet.
A Computing degree is a future-proof qualification that will prepare you for the economy and the job market of the future.
You'll also gain many transferable analytical, problem-solving and critical thinking skills that are in demand across a host of industries.
If you love working with computers, enjoy the challenge of learning new things quickly, and like exploring how things work and why, a degree in Computing could be for you.
Once you graduate with a Computing degree, you'll be ready to apply for jobs in fields such as network design, cyber security, web development, computer programming and digital analytics.
Eleanor: My name is Eleanor Abbiss and I study computer networks.
It's about creating first world basic understanding so you learn about Windows and you learn about Linux operating systems.
As well as creating your own networks, you each have your own pod and then you use that to configure your own network in here.
You are given a design and you need to fit all the routers and switches to that design.
I love the problem solving aspect of my course.
There's always issues that need to be solved and it's about figuring out how best to solve those problems, so that in the future you then "I know, I've had the problem before, I know how to fix it this time" and it's all about constantly evolving.
Networking is constantly evolving.
I chose Portsmouth because it was the number one university for Computer Networks.
They're building a new Cisco Suite which is great, and you'll be able to do your CCNA here as well as studying your degree at the same time.
Understanding data helps us to understand the future.
In everything we do, data science and analytics provides the answers that shape our world.
To manage this changing world successfully, we need to know what's happening.
From social media management to financial forecasting.
From cosmology to climate change.
And beyond our own planet, our knowledge of the universe is expanding.
Each new discovery provides us with a vast amount of data that needs to be understood and analysed.
The skills I gained through this course have been crucial to starting my career in IT, and the lecturers were always incredibly helpful and supportive.
Now, having been in the industry for only four years, I'm already leading a small team -- something I never thought I'd be doing!
Kieran Edwards, BSc (Hons) Computer Science

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/criminology-and-forensic-investigation:
Prepare for a career in law enforcement, probation, security or counter-fraud
Crime affects everyone in society, and a Criminology and Forensic Investigation degree is the perfect way to get the skills and knowledge needed to play your part in understanding and tackling one of the most enduring issues facing society.
When you study a Criminology and Forensic Investigation degree, you'll explore why criminals behave the way they do and consider ways of identifying and preventing crime using techniques from forensics to cyber technology.
Depending on the course you choose, you'll also gain the sociological, psychological and forensic skills required to follow our previous students into graduate jobs in the fields of law enforcement, probation, crime rehabilitation, cybercrime, counter fraud and crime prevention.
We have excellent links with key bodies in the industry – such as the National Crime Squad and the National Cyber Security Centre, and the Cabinet Office – and you'll have the option of doing a placement year in industry as part of your degree, to gain valuable experience before you graduate.
Since graduating from this course, I've worked for Surrey Police, the Metropolitan Police and Hampshire Police, and now I'm training as a detective.
Having visited a number of other universities, it's clear that Portsmouth is committed to leading the way in Criminology.
Paul Sammons, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Criminal Justice
Studying a degree in criminology will open you up to a wide variety of career opportunities.
From policing and cyber security, to NGOs and charities, discover some of the roles you could take on, and learn how we'll support you to achieve your goals.
Simona Ciobotaru: Studying a degree here at the University of Portsmouth in our School of Criminology and Criminal Justice will open you up to a wide variety of career options.
Alexandra Hemingway: It's not always really obvious exactly what kind of job you might want to do.
A lot of students do need some help or inspiration, and a lot of that comes from directly inside their course.
If they're studying forensics, they've got really good simulations where they're doing practical examples of working with a scene of crime and stuff where they're going outdoors and really taking the science outside.
Laura Haggar: We have some students who might go into the prison service.
We might have students who are interested in economic crime.
Simona Ciobotaru: A lot of students can go either into cyber security, NGOs and charities.
They can work for the police.
Dr Richard John: One of the great attractive measures of policing today is actually you could join with this degree as a detective or an investigator.
Becky Milne: We have a big partnership with Hampshire Police, but also police right across the country and across the globe.
Dr Craig Collie: We tend to recommend that students do a placement or some work experience so they can put some of those skills to use.
Alexandra Hemingway: For example, working with Hampshire Constabulary as well as with charities or victim support.
Another option is study abroad.
You could go and do potentially a semester or a year in another university and you could also pick a work placement abroad.
And there have also been opportunities to work right here in the university.
Michela Scalpello: Students can move into other areas in terms of analysis, data or government.
Dr Richard John: The sky really is your limit.
The university of Portsmouth gives you the skills, it gives you the confidence and it gives you that academic ability to negotiate complex and difficult issues.
Dr Craig Collie: Learning how people think and behave and understanding how you yourself react to those things work into how those jobs would work.
We've just got a wonderful team who are very experienced.
Our team is one of the biggest criminology provisions in the country.
You can nurture that interest here with us at Portsmouth.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/data-science-and-machine-learning:
Make a splash in a growing sector with a degree in data science or machine learning
We’re swimming in more data than is humanly manageable, which means there’s a huge demand for professionals who can enhance their ability to make sense of the data with artificial intelligence and computer analysis.
Studying a course that allows you to develop skills and expertise in data science and machine learning means you can step up to the roles in statistics, scientific techniques and programming that turn data into insight across research and business.
You’ll qualify with the skills demanded by any industry that uses data: from astronomical bodies to protein structures, from medical diagnosis to marketing personalisation.
Follow your interests through the mathematical underpinnings of the subject, the computer programming, and the practical application of your studies, as you prepare for a career  working with the defining resource of the 21st century.
Dive into the world of data science through courses in various subjects, including computing, mathematics, physics, and engineering.
As set out in the National Data Strategy, data is now the driving force of the world’s modern economies.
It fuels innovation in businesses large and small and has been a lifeline during the global coronavirus pandemic.
Gov UK, Quantifying the UK Data Skills Gap (May 2021)
Data science is a massive growth sector right now, according to Prospects, across industries from health and science to retail and finance.
Employment site totaljobs.com lists graduate starting salaries for data science roles as high as £40–£60K, rising to senior roles earning over £100K.
You’ll apply your experience with Python tools and analytic skills to data in sectors such as:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/drama-music-and-performing-arts:
Take to the stage, hone your talents, and prepare for a career in drama, music or the performing arts
The arts are an essential part of any thriving society.
Whether spreading joy or shining a light on injustice, the performing arts remain an increasingly important subject.
A Drama, Music or Performing Arts degree will prepare you for work in the arts, by helping you gain the skills, knowledge and experience to turn your passion for the arts into a career.
When you study for a degree in Drama, Music or Performing Arts you'll have the chance to grow your understanding of the historical and cultural history of the arts – and the opportunity to learn the latest techniques to improve your work.
You'll also gain the essential skill of networking, and interact with other artists and performers who could become future collaborators and colleagues.
As well as performance, your studies will prepare for a variety of artistic careers, and our past students have gone on to graduate jobs as writers, producers, managers and arts teachers.
Many have founded their own companies too.
If you take this course, it'll be the best 3 years of your life and you’ll leave with the confidence and life skills needed to succeed.
Thanks to my degree, I'm now running my own drama department, helping students passionate about the performing arts get through their GCSEs and A levels.
Harriet Baynham-Williams, BA (Hons) Drama and Performance

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/earth-sciences-courses:
Study the planet we live on – how it was formed, how to manage disasters and solve the world's pressing problems
Earth sciences is the study of the Earth.
Some Earth scientists investigate how the Earth and other planets formed, others explore energy and mineral resources, provide advice for safe construction, or study natural processes like volcanoes.
Professions in the Earth Sciences include palaeontologist, geologist, geotechnical engineer, engineering geologist and crisis and disaster management expert.
Many Earth Scientists work in the field, but you can also use your knowledge as a consultant, laboratory technician or museum curator.
The fieldwork aspect of the course was fantastic, it was both educational and social, as well as a great opportunity to see some geologically and aesthetically beautiful places.
William Smith, BSc (Hons) Geology
All of our courses are accredited by the Geological Society of London.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/engineering:
The University of Portsmouth is the perfect place to start your journey in engineering
Engineering uses science, mathematics and empirical evidence to design, plan, build and maintain things like engines, power systems, machines, buildings and structures.
From new product innovations to large-scale public projects, engineering keeps the modern world moving forward, so an Engineering degree is an always-relevant, always in-demand qualification.
We offer degrees in four areas of Engineering – Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Energy Engineering.
Depending on which you decide to pursue, your undergraduate or postgraduate Engineering degree could be the perfect preparation for jobs such as aerospace engineer, product design engineer, geotechnical engineer, or an expert in sustainable construction.
Robotics and Artificial Intelligence BEng (Hons)
Space Systems Engineering (Degree Apprenticeship) BEng (Hons)
I enjoyed everything about studying Civil Engineering at the University of Portsmouth.
The lecturers were immensely supportive, and the degree is an excellent one to have – it opens doors wherever you go, and you'll be highly sought-after.
Hasibullah Ahmadi, MEng Civil Engineering
Study Engineering a brand new way with a unique Connected Degree®.
3 year course.
4 year placement.
10 courses across Robotics and AI, Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronic Engineering and Renewable Energy.
Immersive Facilities.
Pro tech.
Industry links.
Connect your degree to an in-demand career.
Connected Degrees®.
Only at Portsmouth.
Choose your course today.
Most of our courses are accredited by professional bodies such as the Institution of Engineering and Technology, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, and the Institution of Engineering Designers.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/english-and-creative-writing-courses:
Explore literature throughout history, or learn to pen your own creative work
Writing has the power to transport readers and listeners to an entirely different time and place, and to engage us in new ways with the world around us.
In an increasingly digital world, written works still matter – whether to tell a tale, highlight a point or unlock an appreciation for another belief.
The ability to communicate with creativity and clarity is in high-demand, and the world needs people that appreciate literature and can add their own voice.
Studying for an English or Creative Writing degree is the perfect foundation for many jobs in the arts, the media and publishing, where employers will value the analytical, communication and presentation skills you'll develop.
With a qualification in English or Creative Writing, you'll get a deep appreciation for the power of words.
You'll develop skills that could take you into jobs such as a copywriter, advertising creative, scriptwriter, editor, bid writer, content manager, social media manager, press officer or teacher.
The study of literature spans genres from crime writing to magical realism, and classic to contemporary.
It takes in the past to explore written works shaped by history, looking beyond the words, to study the art, culture and context.
If you've always dreamed of penning your own stories and developing your writing craft, then studying creative writing will give you the platform.
Aside from building on your writing talent, you'll learn to write across different genres and creative industries, from print and online media to film and television.
From Charles Dickens to Sherlock Holmes, Portsmouth is steeped in lively literature.
Join two of our students for a tour around our literary city.
Chibuzor and Holly: Welcome to Portsmouth.
Chibuzor: Our island city has a really rich history of literature and culture.
Holly: Come and join us for a tour.
Chibuzor: One of our most famous literary residents is Charles Dickens, who was born here on Old Commercial Road.
It is now home to the Charles Dickens Birthplace Museum.
Holly: Portsmouth is also the birthplace of another famous figure.
Arthur Conan Doyle wrote his first Sherlock Holmes story while practising as a doctor here in Southsea.
Now you can walk in his footsteps while doing a spot of shopping on Elm Grove.
Chibuzor: Thinking of shopping, our popular Gunwharf Quays features in Graham Hurley's DI Faraday crime novel, The Take.
Graham Hurley is a friend of the English Literature programme.
If you study with us here at the University of Portsmouth, you may get a chance to work with him in class.
Chibuzor: As an island city, Portsmouth has had a huge influence on authors both from home and abroad.
Jane Austen often visited here to see her brothers, who were stationed here with the Royal Navy.
She was inspired to include Portsmouth in her novel, Mansfield Park.
Holly: Stephanie Norgate's poem, Ferries at Southsea, was inspired by the view of ferries here on Clarence Parade Pier.
Her poem is strongly rooted in the local area, but also tackles global issues of immigration.
Chibuzor: Portsmouth’s naval history means we can't shy away from the topics of race and slavery.
The first slave narrator, Ukawsawa Gronniosaw, visited our city, while John Jea, another former slave, was a prominent preacher near the docks.
Their memoirs movingly reveal the city's black history.
Holly: As we move into modern day, we have authors and poets tackling issues both big and small.
Poet laureate Simon Armitage studied at the University of Portsmouth.
Local poet Denise Bennett has written on Portsmouth Jewish history, and Fatima Bhutto featured Portsmouth in her contemporary novel on Islamic culture.
As well as its fabulous literary history, Portsmouth also has a really vibrant, creative writing community, and you can be a part of it if you decide to study here.
Chibuzor: Our final stop is Milldam building.
Originally a mill pond, it was featured in a long forgotten novel by Walter Besant, who was a contemporary of Charles Dickens.
The Navy drained the pond and built officer quarters here.
Then it changed hands and became home to the English Literature team at the University of Portsmouth.
Holly: Which means Portsmouth is home to the next generation of writers, thinkers and world shapers.
Chibuzor: We hope you join us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/fashion-photography-graphic-arts-and-design:
Unleash your creativity on a course designed to help you open doors to a career in fashion, photography, graphic arts or design
Good design and a strong visual identity are integral parts of almost every major brand.
Whether your medium is fashion, photography, graphic arts or design, your ability to turn thoughts and ideas into tangible products will be highly valued by employers.
Graduates with the ability to communicate complex ideas with creativity and clarity are always in high demand.
When you study for a Fashion, Photography, Graphic Arts or Design degree, you'll gain the skills, knowledge and experience needed to make an impact in the industry.
Our past students have gone into graduate jobs with big names in fashion like Ralph Lauren, Hugo Boss and designers like Aardman Digital – and now work as art directors, design managers, advertising creatives, practising fine artists, visual merchandisers, branding experts and textile designers.
3rd
for film production and photography in the UK
(Guardian University Guide, 2024)
Naomi Finn, BA (Hons) Graphic Design

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/film-and-television:
Learn the skills and get the qualifications you need for an ambitious role in the film or television industry
The film and television industry is creative and competitive.
Audience expectations are rising, technology is improving and highly-trained specialists are increasingly in demand across the industry.
Whether you see yourself behind a camera, as a media critic, or as a producer steering a film from conception to finished product, a Film and Television degree is the perfect preparation for your ideal profession.
Study for a Film or Television degree and you'll learn the knowledge and practical skills to make your mark in film and TV, gain transferrable skills like project management and critical analysis, and explore the past, present and possible future of films.
And when you graduate, you could follow our past students into jobs with major entertainment brands, including the BBC, Warner Bros, Universal Pictures International, Sky, Channel 4 and Lion TV.
Glen Scott, BSc (Hons) Television and Broadcasting
Several of our courses are accredited by the industry body ScreenSkills.
Accreditation gives your degree the seal of approval for quality teaching, relevant skills and up-to-date knowledge.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/geography-and-environmental-science-courses:
From environmental management, to international development, our courses will prepare you for a career as ambitious as you are
Geography and Environmental Sciences involves exploring the planet's scientific processes and physical structures, and studying our impact on the world.
An undergraduate or postgraduate qualification in this area could prepare you for a career as an urban planner, environmental consultant, geographical information scientist, sustainability specialist, or for a role in conservation or wildlife protection.
Students and staff at the School of Environment, Geography and Geosciences talk about the outstanding field trips to Finland, Uganda and many more at the University of Portsmouth.
Over the next 50 to 100 years we’re going to see significant changes in our climate.
BSc (Hons) Geography is all about understanding those changes but also understanding the solutions.
At the University of Portsmouth, there are options to go on many field trips.
Our field trip to the Isle of Wight was to collect evidence so we could write up a report.
In third year we went to Finland to study microclimates and how they change.
We do one field trip with BSc (Hons) Geography to arctic Finland.
This is a hard, challenging environment to work.
You get to put theory into practice.
You have to learn team skills, you’ve got to learn how to support yourself, support others and it’s not just about building your intellectual knowledge, it’s about building your character.
I’m a lot more confident, more logical and more organised.
The University of Portsmouth helped me excel myself and take myself into the real world.
Joe Beavis, BSc (Hons) Geography

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/healthcare-and-social-care:
The world needs healthcare and social care professionals – and our courses can help start your career
The healthcare and social care sectors are always in need of qualified practitioners such as doctors, social workers, paramedics, dental nurses, mental health nurses, radiographers, biomedical scientists and pharmacists.
Healthcare involves treating, controlling or preventing disease, illness, injury or disability, and the care or aftercare of affected people.
Social care involves giving assistance to people with daily activities in order to maintain independence and social interaction, and to protect them if they are vulnerable.
NO.
3
in the UK for pharmacy and pharmacology
(The Guardian University Guide, 2024)
14
in the UK for health professions
19
in the UK for nursing
This course will help you contribute to society in a big way -- if you care about patients then this is the course for you.
Robert Burbery, BSc (Hons) Pharmacology
Many of our Healthcare and Social Care courses are approved or accredited by professional bodies such as the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC), the General Dental Council (GDC) and The College of Radiographers.
This means you'll have the relevant skills and up-to-date knowledge to work in the healthcare sector.
View all courses
It's important that our students on health care, social care and dental courses have the right values.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/history-politics-and-international-relations-courses:
Explore the decisions that have shaped history, the issues of today, and how to shape a brighter future
History, politics, international relations and international development shape our society and help us understand the world past and present.
When you do a history degree with us, you'll study in a city that's been central to key historical events for many centuries.
You'll focus on different periods and problems faced by societies over time, and explore how history shapes decisions made today.
On our politics and international relations degrees, you'll learn about pressing global issues such as war and conflict, the role of diplomacy and foreign policy, and global challenges such as climate change, sustainability and protecting human rights.
On an international development course, you'll explore the role and purpose of development, build your understanding of world affairs and put your knowledge to work with not-for-profit organisations in developing countries.
You can also opt to learn a language alongside your course if you study BA (Hons) International Development and Languages or BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages.
The University of Portsmouth is the top modern university in the country for Area Studies *
What is area studies?
Area studies is the name given to the collective disciplines of international relations, history, politics, sociology, economies, cultures, languages and geography across specific regions of the world.
Whether its investigating Europe's relationship with Russia, exploring the history of the American civil rights movement or studying the causes of conflict in West Africa, area studies helps us decipher the ways in which the world works.
* Research Excellence Framework 2021
Ed Stoddard, Reader in International Security, explains how cutting-edge research like his (into the changing character of warfare) informs our courses and talks about some of the career opportunities this course can lead to.
Ed Stoddard: So the research I do here at the University is focused on the changing character of warfare.
Over the last few years I've been particularly focusing on questions to do with terrorism and violent extremism in the West African region, especially around the Lake Chad area.
And we use that research and distribute it at conferences and events with policymakers, both here in the UK, but also in West Africa as well.
Armed conflicts are so destructive and, you know, I think it's incumbent on us as researchers who work in this area to try and think of ways they can be avoided, of course, in the first instance.
But if, when those armed conflicts do happen, try and think of measures that we can put in place to reduce their impact.
So the research connects with students here in a number of different ways.
It supports the work they do in terms of their dissertations, but also directly into the modules that they study.
You know, our research, once we've done it and we've written the papers and we've publish the outputs, that gets then translated into the lectures that we deliver.
So they will be directly learning and benefiting from that research that we've done out in the field in their studies and contributing to their degree.
There's a really broad range of different career opportunities that are available to students.
The Foreign Office, the Civil Service and more broadly, the Ministry of Defence.
But also we have students who go to international organisations, NGOs, charities that work internationally in conflict zones, and we also have quite a lot of students who go into various research roles and risk analysis roles.
Portsmouth is a really exciting and vibrant city and the university is literally at the heart of the city.
I think also the university has a really strong focus on student support and a really strong focus on teaching quality.
And I know that my colleagues spend very considerable amount of that time working to make sure that the experience for Portsmouth students is a really brilliant one.
And I think those are some of the key reasons why students who are here really enjoy their degrees.
There's a lot of freedom in terms of how you cater the course for what you enjoy, and you're tested in various ways - from essays and presentations, to marked seminars - which gives you a great advantage.
Sophie Gardiner, BA (Hons) History

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/languages:
Our courses can help you learn another language, gain translation skills and develop your career overseas
Studying a Languages degree at university is the perfect way to take your language skills to the next level.
Modern society is multicultural and much of modern business is global, so the ability to speak multiple languages is always in demand.
You can study one or two languages during your degree, and you could be a fluent speaker by the time you graduate.
You could also have the chance to learn about the culture and history of the countries and cultures that speak the languages you're studying.
A Languages degree will improve your communication skills, and give you the skills to work independently.
Because you'll be immersed in a different language and culture during your studies, a Languages degree is also an excellent way of showing you're mature and adaptable.
With a Languages degree, you'll be ready for a career as a translator, linguist, interpreter or teacher.
Employees with language degrees are also highly sought-after by many international businesses and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
TESOL (with Professional Experience) MA
Unsure which language degree to choose?
Take our quick and easy quiz to find out which of our language courses is best suited to you.
Take the quiz
I had the most fantastic experience on this course.
I went to study abroad as past of the Erasmus+ scheme, which completed my course perfectly and initiated the path into my career.
Lauren Cooper, BA (Hons) Modern Languages

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/law-courses:
Thinking about a career in the legal sector?
Our courses give you the skills, experience and qualifications to start
Law touches on almost every aspect of society including business, politics and human rights.
It affects global trade and international relations as well as business, personal transactions and family relationships - so a degree in law is always relevant.
Study law, and you'll tackle the pressing ethical and legal issues facing society.
A law degree is the first step to a career in the legal sector and can prepare you for further training as a barrister or solicitor.
The knowledge, experience and skills you'll learn will also prepare you for many other graduate jobs.
With your law degree, you'll be ready to move into a variety of roles in insurance and banking, and into managerial positions across many other industries.
Studying law will give you the professional edge – no matter what career you're pursuing.
Discover 7 reasons studying law will prepare you for a career in many industries.
1 December 2020
3 min read
2 February 2022
While studying LLB (Hons) Law with us, Shashi was elected Secretary and then President of the Law Society.
22 January 2021
3-5 mins
Darren Gill, LLB (Hons) Law
Our law facilities include a mock law court.
This crown court replica is complete with dock, witness box, jury room and interview room.
Join the student law society to take part in social, charitable and career activities throughout your degree and make friends along the way.
You could even boost your skills by joining the society committee.
You can get work experience in our legal advice clinic with supervision from qualified solicitors during your studies.
After your second year you can do a placement year to get experience in a range of different sectors ahead of graduating.
You'll get support in choosing and applying for placements that fit your aspirations, whether you want to work in a legal or non-legal context.
Watch this short video to discover our replica courtroom and see where you'll practise trials and take part in mooting competitions.
The benefits of having a replica Crown Court are that if one of our students wants to be a barrister in the future or a solicitor advocate, then it really gives them the opportunity to practise a trial and various court hearings in a courtroom setting.
Although this is a crown court, so it's a criminal court, we also use it for civil cases too.
We're one of the only universities in the country that has a replica courtroom.
This really gives students, when they go on from university, some really important skills that are valuable not only in a legal career, but also in a lot of other careers as well.
The student Law Society do a lot of activities in here, run mock trials, mooting competitions, and it gives our students really a chance to let their hair down and have a bit of fun in here.
We use the wigs, we use the gowns, we get a real judge in and we've got the cameras in here so you can go and film your performances.
You can -- it's a really good learning space.
It's so lovely to see how our students grow in the years that they're with us.
Our replica courtroom helps us to do that.
Hear course leader, Joanne Atkinson, talk about studying LLM Law at Portsmouth.
I'm a qualified solicitor, I worked in practice before joining the university and I really enjoyed bringing that practical experience into the classroom.
I think what's exciting about law at Masters level is the sheer variety.
So once you begin to learn about the subject and see how it applies you never look at life the same way again.
For each individual student they can tailor make their own program to suit their preferences and that might include work based learning.
It might include in-depth study in their preferred specialist areas.
If you join without a qualifying law degree there's no requirement to have studied law before one of your options in that case will be our law conversion course.
But the remainder of your program is available for you to choose.
We are able to offer students opportunities to take voluntary career placements and those students receive professional training before sitting with clients and gaining practical experience.
In order to succeed on the LLM in Law I think the three key attribute students need are first of all curiosity, a dose of commercial awareness is really helpful in order to understand the context in which the law is applying and finally I think the master's is quite an intensive course.
If you take the full time option you're only here for a year so you also need a certain amount of tenacity.
Portsmouth is a really vibrant place to live.
You've got the beach you've got the seaside you got all of the cultural activities going on lots of festivals over the summer and in fact all year round it's a really buzzy exciting place to be in a great place to study and to develop.
Find out about studying a Criminology degree at one of the largest criminology departments in the country.
Develop business knowledge, people management and entrepreneurial skills on our business, management and marketing courses.
Earn professional qualifications.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/mathematics-and-physics:
Take your skills to the next level on courses designed to open doors to ambitious careers
Our Mathematics and Physics degrees cover fundamental concepts of mathematics such as calculus, linear algebra, statistics, fundamental physics, quantum technologies, materials research, particle physics, cosmology and astrophysics.
Graduates with a maths or physics degree are sought-after in many industries, including transport, financial services, research and communications.
Our past students have gone on to jobs in areas such as finance, software engineering, investment analysis, data science, nanotechnology and research science.
Mathematicians are vital to keeping the ever-complex modern world moving.
Maths underpins the safety and efficiency of our transport and infrastructure.
It helps us analyse and find solutions to society's most-pressing issues, from climate change to crime prevention.
Almost every facet of the world relies on the use and study of numbers, patterns and algorithms.
I wanted to study Mathematics because I love the feeling of solving problems, especially problems that look terrifying at first.
I was inspired daily by my lecturers, their passion is contagious
Amber Burton, BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Statistics
Physicists observe natural phenomena – the way matter and energy interact – and create laws to explain them.
They explore physical matter on every scale, from stars to sub-atomic particles, and energy in all its forms.
They're behind the technology of the future and at the forefront in solving global issues such as climate change.
[No dialogue.]
Give me a university that feeds my imagination and opens my mind to the boundless potential of numbers.
Give me a university whose purpose it is to make sure I achieve my goals, encourage my talent and ambition, and give me the support to succeed.
Give me the right tools to get to where I want to go.
Give me the University of Portsmouth.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/media-and-journalism:
Journalism courses and media degrees that tick all the right boxes - your future career is in safe hands
Our Media and Journalism degrees cover entertainment and identity in the media, writing for the press, marketing, advertising across every platform from newspaper to radio to digital media.
They also cover how the media portrays important issues, such as conflict and democracy.
In an increasingly turbulent world, the ability to communicate well is vital, and a Media and Journalism degree will help you sharpen those skills.
If you're passionate about the media's role in speaking truth to power, a Media and Journalism degree can help you gain the confidence to do just that.
Media and Journalism students have graduated into jobs in television, magazines, newspapers, social media, advertising, and copywriting.
They've become foreign correspondents, publishers, journalists, social media experts, and much more – and you could follow in their footsteps.
7th
for journalism in the UK
(Guardian University Guide, 2025)
Our Journalism, publishing and public relations courses are ranked number 7 in the UK ( The Guardian University Guide, 2025 ).
Our Journalism courses were developed with input from experts working at The Sun and The Daily Mail, regional media groups such as Johnston Press, Newsquest and Trinity Mirror, and national public relations agencies.
On our Media degrees, you can learn about the past, present and possible futures of media around the world and be taught by widely published media experts.
Our facilities and resources are some of the best in the country and our experts have years of experience in the press industry.
You can do a placement year to get experience in the media or journalism field before you graduate.
We have links with leading media organisations so can help you find a placement that matches your career ambitions.
The city is so tight knit so you form close relationships with your course mates.
The course leaders were also always available when you needed them, and pushed you when you sometimes wanted to give up.
They always believed in me.
Sophie Curr, BA (Hons) Journalism
Our BA (Hons) Journalism degree is accredited by the NCTJ.
Accreditation means you get top-quality teaching and up-to-date skills.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/psychology-and-sociology:
Start your journey as a psychologist with one of our accredited courses, or begin your career as a sociologist
Psychology and sociology both involve the study of human behaviour and are closely linked.
Psychology focuses on individuals or small groups while sociologists focus on societies and social systems.
Psychologists study how the brain operates, and the mental processes and motivations that shape the behaviour of humans and other animals.
Psychology is a part of everyday life, and plays a role in everything we do.
Sociology is the systematic study of society and the world around us.
Sociologists seek explanations for why the world is organised and structured the way it is and why social inequalities persist.
Psychology and sociology are broad subjects, and cover a range of topics across the natural and social sciences.
Here at Portsmouth, you can study the two subjects individually or in combination with other subjects - so, depending on the course you choose, you'll be able to study topics that interest you the most.
You can also study sociology in combination with social psychology, allowing you to explore the areas of psychology that are most relevant to sociologists as part of your degree.
These modules allow you to explore how our thoughts, feelings and behaviours are shaped by society, and also shape society.
International Development with Sociology BA (Hons)
A psychology degree is ideal preparation for jobs in the fields of psychology, social work, counselling, policing, prison and probation services, and market research.
Studying for a psychology degree can also help you gain valuable transferable skills, like problem-solving and critical thinking.
If you study sociology with us, you'll develop a critical understanding of society, contemporary social and cultural issues, and specialist areas of sociological study such as food, happiness, work, the Global South, social class, gender and race.
A degree in sociology develops your knowledge and research skills, preparing you for a career that works towards making the world a fairer place.
You’ll become ready to work in the private, public or charity sectors, in roles such as researcher, teacher, social worker, equality and diversity practitioner or human resources manager.
The lecturers are my favourite part of the course.
Every lecturer has a clear passion for what they are teaching us and it really shows in all the support they give to us students.
This extends to outside the classroom as well.
Lecturers really care for the students and their wellbeing.
Castiel Martin, BSc (Hons) Sociology With Psychology
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology, BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology, BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology, MSc Forensic Psychology, and MSc Applied Sport Psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), the representative body for psychology and psychologists in the UK.
Taking an accredited course means you'll get up-to-date knowledge and skills, and a qualification that's recognised in the profession.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/subject-area/sport-science:
A career in the sport and exercise industry – in whatever field you are aiming for – starts with one of our courses in sport and exercise science
Depending on what you choose to study, your Sport Science degree could help you gain the knowledge needed to understand and enhance athletic performance.
A degree in Sport Science could also help you get the expertise required to examine the role of the mind in sporting success, and develop the necessary skills to set up your own sports business.
Once you graduate with a Sport Science degree, you could follow our previous students into jobs such as sports therapist, physiologist, nutritionist, personal trainer, administrator and coach.
13
in the UK for sport science
Our staff are accredited by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences and the British Psychological Society.
Accreditation means you'll be taught by experienced and qualified professionals.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choosing-where-and-what-to-study:
Still deciding which course and which university is right for you?
Here's how to work out what matters to you
Choosing a Bachelor's (undergraduate) degree is a big decision.
You can choose up to five undergraduate courses at up to 5 universities, so you need to do lots of research on courses and universities before you apply.
We'd obviously love you to choose Portsmouth.
But we also want to make sure you choose the right course and university for you.
You probably already know what subjects you enjoy and what you're good at.
Spend some time looking at your options and be honest with yourself about what you like about a subject before choosing your degree.
Can you see yourself dedicating time and energy to it in the future?
Your degree will probably be 3 or 4 years and influence your future career, so you should pick something you're excited to specialise in.
Think about something you enjoy and decide what you like about it.
If you love science fiction movies, do you like the science or are you fascinated by the plot , or the special effects ?
If you like cars, are you interested in how they work or how people react to them ?
If you're in school or college speak to your tutors or careers advisors about your options.
They'll help you explore what's available.
Parents, family, and friends with industry experience can help too.
Reach out to friends to ask if they'll join you for a coffee to talk about your choices.
Most people are willing to help, and they might be able to give you an insight into your subject that you weren't expecting.
We asked some of our students what their dream careers were before uni, what they're studying now and what they want to do after they graduate.
Text: Thinking about uni?
We asked some of our students about their journey.
When you were growing up, what did you want to be?
Ethan: When I was growing up, I always knew I wanted to be an engineer.
Charlotte: A teacher.
Denise: Be an actress.
Lilly: Singer.
Rihanna: A scientist.
Caitlin: An Olympian.
Ann-Sophie: Woman in STEM.
Henrietta: Growing up, I always knew I wanted to be a businesswoman and one day own my own business.
Immy: When I was growing up, I wanted to be a doctor.
Tami: A lawyer or an accountant.
Timothy: A radiologist or a pharmacist.
Jasmin: When I was growing up, I wanted to be all sorts of different careers, actually.
I wanted to be a writer, a paramedic, a police officer, a beautician.
I didn't know what I wanted to do.
Text: What was your favourite subject at school?
Charlotte: At school, my favourite subject was history.
Matt: Chemistry.
Shamica: P.E., physical education.
Ellie: History.
Susan: Science.
Caitlin: PE and chemistry.
Denise: Drama.
Ethan: Design engineering.
Molly: At school, my favourite subject was science, specifically biology, because I like learning about how the body works.
Molly: English.
Sian: Art.
Timothy: Geography and that was because we got to learn about all the cultures across the world.
Henrietta: My favourite subject in school was ICT.
Jasmin: Spanish because I loved learning the language and being able to communicate.
Ann-Sophie: Maths and product design.
Text: What do you study now at university?
Shamica: At the University of Portsmouth, I study Sport, Health and Exercise Science.
Sian: Psychology.
Susan: Diagnostic Radiography and Medical Imaging.
Tami: I'm a master's student studying Finance.
Timothy: At uni, I now study Pharmacy.
Rihanna: International Development and French.
Molly: Biomedical Science.
Lilly: BA Honours in Journalism.
Harriet: The Operating Department Practice.
Matt: At uni, I now study Psychology.
Jubilee: Architecture.
Denise: Criminology and Forensic Studies.
Ellie: Marketing.
Ethan: Mechanical Engineering.
Immy: At uni, I now study Animation.
Text: What is your favourite thing about uni?
Charlotte: One of my favourite things about uni is not only the fact that I find my course really interesting, but I've also joined the Lacrosse Society, which is a new sport I've never played before.
Ann-Sophie: The broad range of subjects I learn within my degree.
Caitlin: The independence and freedom you get.
Henrietta: Lecturers that are constantly supporting you and motivating you to do well.
Ethan: The depth that you study your chosen subject in.
Jasmin: I found out what career I wanted to do, I've had help with work experience and career choices and CVs.
Molly: It's being able to explore amazing new places such as Portsmouth.
Text: What's next after uni?
Denise: My next step after uni is, hopefully, a role in human resources or recruitment.
Ann-Sophie: Get my masters and, hopefully, become a chartered engineer.
Charlotte: Doing my PGCE teacher training for secondary level.
Ellie: Gain more experience in marketing and PR and, hopefully, eventually set up my own business.
Harriet: It's working for the NHS as an anaesthetic practitioner.
Matt: Hopefully, to get onto a Masters.
Susan: My next step after uni is to become a diagnostic radiographer in a hospital.
Ann-Sophie: My dream is to become a music features writer.
Denise: Getting onto a masters programme in neuropsychology.
Text: Whether you know what you already want to do, or even if you're not sure, we're here to help.
Find out what you'll learn on different courses by looking at university websites, prospectuses and UCAS.
A lot of universities organise their courses by subject so you can choose an area of study before you decide on a specific course.
You should explore your career prospects before you apply and find out which courses offer placement years , work experience, or self-employed placements .
Also, consider how you'd like to learn and be assessed over those three years.
Some courses assess you entirely on exam performance, others are coursework based and others are a mix of assessments.
Browse our course pages or order a prospectus to see what courses we offer.
When you see a course you like, note its UCAS code – you’ll need this to apply.
Once you pick a degree you’ll also need to check its entry requirements .
Entry requirements tell you what qualifications, skills and experience you'll need on the course – but this isn't just about your grades.
Consider volunteering, getting work experience, or taking on leadership roles to boost your CV before you start university and develop your skills to give you a stronger application.
Discover Uni includes an overall 'Student Satisfaction' rating on all listed courses.
This overall rating also gets broken down according to:
Discover Uni also has sections detailing graduate outcomes.
You can find out what percentage of course graduates are in employment 15 months after the course and what their average salaries are after 15 months, 3 years and 5 years.
WhatUni includes a 'Student reviews' section on all listed courses.
In addition to a rating system, students also leave comments where they often mention their favourite things about a University or a course.
University Compare is designed to help you make informed decisions about your education.
It provides university comparisons, student reviews, and practical guidance on applications and career options, making it a valuable resource for students exploring higher education.
Daryl Budd, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Criminal Justice (2016), Police Constable, Surrey Police
Once you've picked your subject or course, explore your potential university.
Look at the quality of the teaching , what facilities it has and what past students say , if you can.
If you're moving away from home explore your accommodation options and consider whether you’ll enjoy living in a new city .
Considering Portsmouth?
Discover the top reasons to choose us .
You might also want to consider:
Take a look at what different university rankings mean and compare your universities.
Find out what support is available, and choose a university that supports your career, your studies, and your health.
Once you’ve narrowed down your choices, visit your top universities to see them up close.
Nothing compares to experiencing a city and hearing from teaching staff and students first hand.
On our Open Days you get to tour our campus, facilities and halls of residence, and chat with our students.
You'll also get advice on finding somewhere to live and funding your studies so you’re armed with all the info you need to apply.
Some people know exactly what they want to do in the future and how to get there, but a lot of us don't.
And we don't always know how to figure it out.
If you’re not sure what you want to do you probably won't decide overnight.
Take some time to think things over, explore your options and research different opportunities before you apply.
Picking a degree or a career can feel like an all-or-nothing decision, but you'll have the chance to change your mind later if you want to.
Some people change universities, degrees, or even their whole career.
Don't rush your decision, but do spend some time thinking about your choices.
Many people around you – including family, friends and careers advisors – are probably more than happy to help if you reach out.
If you're not sure where to start, try looking at what degrees are available to see if anything catches your eye.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choosing-where-and-what-to-study/what-are-the-different-types-of-university-degrees:
to the degree awards we offer
See our Connected Degrees
See Undergraduate courses
See our CertEd courses
See our HNCs See our HNDs
See our CertHEs See our DipHEs
See Foundation degrees
See Degree apprenticeships
See Top-up degrees
See Master's courses
See our MBAs
See our PGCEs
See our PgDips See our PgCerts
See PG Top-ups
See PG Degree apprenticeships

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choosing-where-and-what-to-study/why-go-to-university-open-days-and-what-to-do-when-you-cant:
And what to do when you can't visit in person
When you're choosing a course and university, open days give you the chance to explore campus accommodation and facilities, speak to current students and teachers and get an idea of student life.
But what happens if you can't get to an open day?
Can you get the information you need without visiting campus?
University open days are events where future students can visit universities in person to learn more about the uni and their courses.
Open days are a great way to find out more about your university and your degree options.
You'll meet current students, speak to uni services and hear about life at university as you take a look around the campus or city in your own time.
Lots of universities offer virtual open days, or virtual experiences, in case you can't visit them in person so you can get to know the uni even if you can't attend an open day.
Nothing quite compares to walking through a university and exploring the city in your own time.
Attending an Open Day helps give you a true feel for your future home.
You'll leave the city having met staff who could teach you during your studies, and having spoken to students already studying at the uni.
As well as speaking to people about your course you'll be able to meet student services, ask questions about the support you get at uni, and find out more about how to apply for your degree.
Book your Open Day
Join our virtual experience
Discover everything you can do at an Open Day in Portsmouth and find out how to get the most out of your trip.
If you can't attend a university Open Day, there are still plenty of ways to find out about your course and university options.
Many universities have virtual open days or online experiences so you can find out more about them if you can't attend an open day.
Virtual opens days are can include live webinars, video tours, and live talks on courses and university services.
Depending on the kind of virtual open day, you may need to sign up in advance and come back at a specific time, or you may be able to access the whole experience online at any time.
Every university is different, so check out what each uni has on offer.
Explore a day in the life of a Portsmouth student, tour our accommodation, discover our island city, and experience your subject area online at any time.
Join the virtual experience
After you've researched your course or chosen a subject area , you'll still want to find out more about your university support, location, and clubs.
Meeting the support services who will be there for you throughout your studies can help make the transition to higher education less daunting.
At an Open Day you'll usually have the chance to speak to housing teams, student finance advisors, and wellbeing support — and most universities have lots of information about their guidance services on their websites too.
Find out about the guidance and support you'll get if you need a helping hand with academic life – or life in general – when you study with us at Portsmouth.
University is about more than just your degree; it's also about making memories.
From making friends and joining student groups to competing in BUCS as part of a sport team, there are plenty of activities to get involved in outside of your studies.
Open days aren't the only place you can meet alumni and current students.
Many universities share interviews with their students in blogs or videos on their websites and social media.
You can also hear from students on online forums, personal blogs and student YouTube channels.
Charles’s time at university studying BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology helped him learn how to advocate for himself and begin a career he feels passionate about.
7 March 2023
Venus's BA (Hons) Fashion and Textiles degree led her to the Batsford Prize shortlist and a feature in Graduate Fashion Week's Talent of Tomorrow photoshoot.
23 October 2020
YouTuber Tati Kapaya's reviews of her first year at Portsmouth.
My first year at uni, advice and experience
Find out more about Portsmouth from the people who know it the best – our students.
Chat now
The Student Room is an online community for all students from GCSEs to University.
As an online forum, you can browse threads started by students at universities you're researching, and start your own threads to get answers to questions you can't find the answer to elsewhere.
Join the University of Portsmouth forum on The Student Room or explore our University of Portsmouth Guide to get real opinions from current students.
Join us on The Student Room
A big benefit of visiting a university in person is exploring the city or town you'll live in while you study.
When you can't attend an open day, you'll need to use other methods to get to to know your future home.
Some universities will arrange a tour to give you a feel for the campus and the city, even if you're visiting on a non-Open Day.
You can contact us to arrange a tour or a self-guided look around Portsmouth to focus on the parts of the city you're most interested in.
If you can't visit the city in person, you can still find out about the area online with virtual tours, online maps and tourism sites.
Explore your chosen city on Google Maps street view to take a look around without needing to visit, and take a look at your university's website to get an idea of what students enjoy doing in the area .
If you're going to university far from your home, make sure to find out what transport links will keep you connected to your family and friends, too.
When you can't attend an open day it might feel hard to connect with a university, but social media can help.
Following the universities you're interested in on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram will help you get an idea of their friendliness, accomplishments and research — and have the chance to see the city or campus.
You can even comment on their posts and stories to join their community before you arrive.
Speak to our admissions team on +44(0)23 9284 5566 or message us .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choosing-where-and-what-to-study/cost-of-living-in-uk-student-cities:
Find out how to calculate the cost of living in popular student cities
When you're choosing where to study, the cost of living is one of the factors that’s likely to influence your decision between the courses and universities you've shortlisted.
This can vary from location to location.
And although it can be tricky to find living costs for every student city in the UK, there are a few resources you can use to find a uni that suits your lifestyle and budget.
Explore Portsmouth
Once you've shortlisted your universities, the following sites will help you understand your university living costs at each if you choose to study there.
Sites like the Student Room can give you a glimpse into how students feel about their living costs.
This way, you’ll get real opinions from people who feel strongly enough to comment, but remember you might be getting individual stories that don’t apply to your situation.
If you prefer stats and data, you can use the Natwest Student Living Index .
This is an annual report on how affordable cities are for students.
In 2023, Natwest asked 3,052 students in 63 of the UK’s university cities about their income, and what they spend it on.
It's useful guide to what students around the UK are spending their money on, where they’re finding their income, and how they feel about their finances.
Dividing a city’s average student spending by average student income gives you that city’s Student Living Index - a number that indicates how affordable it is to live there.
In the 2023 report, Portsmouth was ranked 4th in the UK.
The key things to take from the 2023 report are:
Your biggest expenses are likely to be in supermarkets, accommodation and bills.
Numbeo (below) is a good source of data on these expenditures.
Natwest data says that main sources of student income are family, student loans and bursaries.
Part time work also features.
Read more about Portsmouth bursaries , or our advice about working while studying .
Their data also indicates that student incomes have risen faster than costs have over the past year.
That sounds like good news for students, but Natwest’s data was collected before the current cost of living crisis, which means managing your living costs is still going to be part of your student life, wherever you study.
If you worry about having enough money at the end of term, you’re not alone - the report shows this is something many students around the country worry about.
That means it’s worth looking at support systems in the universities you’re considering, and help beyond that.
Here in Portsmouth, our student finance support team is here to help you avoid money stresses, or to help you navigate your way out of trouble if you find yourself struggling.
They’ll give ongoing advice on their social media channels, host events like our Talk Money Week and Student Money Week and offer practical cost of living support including access to our student hardship fund.
Find us on social:
Our student union works with us on how best to support you, as well providing its own practical & tangible support, as detailed on the UPSU Cost of Living page .
Portsmouth City Council provides cost of living support and advice that you can access too.
Natwest's data suggests socialising has returned as a big part of student life.
Their report says students like games and Netflix more than the gym, but - whatever you’re into - it’s a good idea to look at what’s available, and what it might cost.
See, for example, our nightlife and culture guide , or the university sports centre .
Numbeo breaks down the cost of individual items in all cities across the UK.
Its website has loads of data that can look overwhelming, but it's a great way to compare the cost of living in popular student cities.
Using the Natwest Student Living Index, we know that students spend most of their budget on:
So the best way to use Numbeo is to compare the cost of these top student spends across popular cities, adding in anything particularly important to you (such as gym membership or childcare).
This helps you focus on what you need to know from all the data on Numbeo.
To help you compare the cost of living in popular student cities, here's the Numbeo data for Portsmouth compared to London, Manchester, Bath, Southampton and Brighton.
*All Numbeo figures below correct as of date of publish on 17 August 2023.
As the capital city of the UK, London isn't going to be the cheapest student city to move to.
However, the maximum maintenance loan you can receive for being an undergraduate in London is higher than it is if you move to a uni outside London, and it's a popular choice for students.
If you compare Portsmouth with London , you'll find that:
Numbeo reports that you need about £270 more per year to live in Manchester at the same standard of living you'd get in Portsmouth.
Looking at the top spends for students in Numbeo when comparing Portsmouth and Manchester , you'll find that:
According to Numbeo, you'd need almost £1,000 more a year to live to the same standards you would in Portsmouth.
When you look at the top spends for students in Numbeo, comparing Portsmouth and Bath , you'll find that:
When you look at the top spends for students in Numbeo, comparing Portsmouth and Southampton , you'll find that:
When you look at the top spends for students in Numbeo, comparing Portsmouth and Brighton , you'll find that:
When researching universities, it's important to consider factors other than the most affordable city.
You'll also want to consider things like:
Make the best choices for you.
Read our guide for deciding which course and university to attend.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/choosing-where-and-what-to-study/understanding-university-ratings-and-rankings:
Find out how universities are ranked and what our results mean for you
If you're thinking about applying for university, the first challenge is deciding what degree to study and where.
A good place to start is with university rankings and ratings.
Students regularly give feedback about their university experiences in various surveys and the results are published every year.
There are also lots of university guides and league tables.
You can tap into all this information to help you compare courses, choose the best university for you and find out about your prospects after you graduate.
But which surveys should you pay attention to?
What do the stats mean?
And how can they help you decide where and what to study?
Let's take a look at your key information sources.
If you want to start an undergraduate degree (such as a BSc or BA), the National Student Survey (NSS) results show you whether other students enjoy the university and the course you're interested in.
The NSS is conducted annually by Ipsos-MORI on behalf of the Office for Students (OfS) .
It's one of the largest student surveys in the world.
Published every September, it’s an independent survey of nearly half a million final year students in higher and further education across the UK.
The NSS results are published as percentages – each course gets a score, and the university gets an overall score.
For instance, a course might get a student satisfaction score of 82%, meaning students who took the course rated it pretty highly.
If the university's overall score is higher, it broadly means that most students had a better time at the university than on that specific course.
The reliability and value of student feedback surveys are a subject of regular discussion in the higher education sector.
The NSS is no exception to this, but it is extensive and has a consistently high response rate from students.
Universities use their NSS results to improve courses, facilities and student support.
Following NSS feedback, we've:
We scored 86% for student satisfaction (above the national average of 82%) in the 2020 NSS.
This was the 14th year we scored above the national average.
You can compare university and course NSS results on the Discover Uni website.
Generally, university guides and league tables present statistical information, and details of individual universities and courses.
You can sort the information depending on what you're interested in.
Each guide or league table has guidance on how to use their information.
Here are a few examples of league tables and some of their features.
The Complete University Guide (CUG) is an independent publication.
It gathers information from UK universities, the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
The Guide ranks 131 universities in the UK using entry standards, student satisfaction, research quality and graduate prospects, and uses the same criteria to rank universities in 70 course subject area.
It also includes information on postgraduate study and courses.
We're 51st in the Complete University Guide 2019.
The Times Higher Education World University Rankings include almost 1,400 universities across 92 countries.
It claims to be 'the largest and most diverse university rankings ever to date'.
Its overall rankings based on 5 areas:
Rankings filtered by subject, teaching, region and 'impact', which assesses universities against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
The QS World University Rankings covers 1,000 universities across the world.
It ranks them according to academic and employer reputation, teacher to student ratio, research quality, international staff and student presence.
You can filter the rankings by, for example, country and region, graduate employability, and best postgraduate business courses.
We are rated 5 stars for excellence in teaching and internationalisation by QS.
The Times Good University Guide includes profiles of all universities, including fees and accommodation costs.
The results are displayed in interactive league tables and 67 subject tables.
It also provides portraits of leading student cities.
We're 51st in the guide for 2019, rising 2 places since 2018.
Choosing a university and course is one thing, but it's also important to look ahead to your job prospects .
If getting into your dream career and earning a good salary is important to you, it's useful to find out where graduates of your course are employed and how much they earn.
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey, for every student who has qualified at a UK university since 1 August 2017.
The survey runs 4 times a year.
It aims to find out what graduates with all types of qualification go on to do.
Graduate Outcomes replaces the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) survey, which showed the percentage of graduates in work or further study 6 months after finishing their degree.
The last DLHE survey was conducted in 2017.
Instead of looking at what you’re up to 6 months after graduation, Graduate Outcomes finds out what graduates are doing after 15 months.
Graduate Outcomes data is displayed on our course pages where 94% or more of our students are in work or further study 15 months after graduation.
The data is produced by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and published under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) licence.
The Discover Uni website provides Graduate Outcomes information in its ‘Employment 15 months after the course’ section on the types of jobs graduates move onto and their salaries.
If you're thinking about studying at postgraduate level , take a look at the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES).
The PRES is an annual, nationwide survey of postgraduate research degree students, organised by Advance HE, which invites them to comment on their programme and experience.
Previous surveys have included, for example, questions about how satisfied students are with:
The PTES is a biennial, nationwide survey, also run by Advance HE.
Its questions are similar to the PRES questions and it's a chance for taught postgraduates to give feedback on their experiences.
Advance HE provides overall PRES and PTES reports.
You should ask universities directly to request their individual data and feedback from these surveys.
For the results of our postgraduate surveys, please contact our postgrad team .
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is an independent review of research quality in the UK's higher education institutions.
It can be a helpful indicator when you're thinking of doing a postgraduate research degree.
And for those considering their first degree, a high quality research environment may well have a positive effect upon undergraduate course content.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2014, 78% of the University of Portsmouth's research impact was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Your choice of postgraduate course and location may also be influenced by your wish to work with a particular research supervisor.
Take a look at our Find a PhD Supervisor tool .
Remember that these surveys are a snapshot.
Use them as a guide to what your experience could be like at a particular university or on a specific course.
It's a good sign if a university maintains consistently high ranking over several years.
To help you narrow down your options, take a look at universities’ websites and prospectuses .
And go to their Open Days for a more in-depth look at what they offer.
There's a lot of information to consider, but taking the time to thoroughly research your options is definitely worthwhile.
It gives you the best chance of making the right decision for you at this important time.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses:
Ready to apply?
Let's get started
Apply now through UCAS
Guaranteed room in halls
Take a virtual tour

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/entry-requirements-for-undergraduate-courses:
Every course is different, we're here to help
Contact our Admissions team
Entry requirements outline what qualifications and grades you need in what subjects, before you start the course.
Entry requirements can also include:
If your course needs an interview, audition, test or exam, we'll invite you to do this after you've applied.
If your course needs a health or criminal records check, you can usually do this after we've offered you a place.
We often show A level grades, BTEC grades and UCAS points as a range.
This is a guide to the grades or number of UCAS points students achieve in the typical offers we make for a course.
For example, a typical offer for a course might look like this:
We usually make offers at the higher end of the range for the most popular courses and we can't always guarantee you a place on a course if you've met all the entry requirements.
Remember – the ranges of grades and UCAS points highlighted above are just an example – check your course page for the specific entry requirements.
As well as A levels, T levels and BTECs, other common qualifications we accept include:
This isn't a complete list.
Get in touch with our Admissions Team if your qualifications aren’t listed above – we accept other qualifications and relevant professional experience on many of our courses.
Use our UCAS Points Calculator to add up your points
We believe excellence and potential are demonstrated in a range of ways.
When you apply to us, we take all of the information you give us into account – not just your grades.
Find out more about how we assess your application .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/entry-requirements-for-undergraduate-courses/what-are-t-levels:
Learn about T levels, what you can study and which degrees accept them.
T levels are level 3 qualifications that you can study after your GCSEs.
One T level takes two years of full-time study and is equivalent to 3 A levels.
If you choose to study T levels you will be studying a technical pathway, while A levels are part of the academic pathway.
Both pathways can lead to university study, so you can apply for a degree with one T level or three A levels.
See the latest T level subjects you can study on the Government website.
All of our courses list the entry requirements you need to apply.
This includes T level grades and UCAS points, where these are accepted.
Here's an example .
You should visit the course page for the degree you want to study and check the entry requirements section for details.
You should also check the full entry requirements, in case you need to study a specific subject to apply.
Each course includes a link to further entry requirement details.
Browse all our courses
T level grades are pass, merit, distinction or distinction*.
Your certificate will show one of these as the overall grade for your T level.
Your overall grade is worked out by using the individual grade for the core part of your study (A*-E), and your grades for the subject specialisms (pass, merit or distinction).
T level grades are worth UCAS points.
The number of points you earn depends on your overall grade.
T level grades are worth:
Whatever your passion, we'll help you go further: search our undergraduate degrees and find the course that suits you at Portsmouth.
You can get more information about T levels by checking our parent's guide to T levels.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/ucas-extra:
Browse courses
UCAS Extra opens on 26 February 2025 and closes 4 July 2025.
Whether you're a UK, EU or international student:
If you submitted your applications through UCAS and you used up all five of your choices you can add more choices one at a time if:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/how-to-apply-for-full-time-undergraduate-courses:
Read our helpful advice on applying for uni
If you're applying for a full-time undergraduate course, you'll typically apply through UCAS.
In some cases however, it might be more beneficial to apply directly to us.
UCAS is the central application system that all universities in the UK use.
You can only apply to five choices - so it's important to do your research and narrow down your options.
If you're applying with the support of your school or college, you'll likely apply through UCAS.
You'll also apply through UCAS if you're:
Most of the time, students apply through to us through UCAS.
But there are some circumstances where you can apply directly to us.
This can be useful if there's no need for you to use the UCAS application system, such as if the University of Portsmouth is your only choice.
You can apply directly if:
If your school or college is registered with UCAS, you can apply online and submit your application to a member of staff who’ll send it to UCAS for you.
Your school or college will let you know how and when to do this.
If your school or college isn't registered with UCAS or you want to apply to UCAS directly, register on the UCAS website and complete an application.
To apply through UCAS, you need:
You can save your progress on your UCAS application.
So you don’t have to complete and submit your application in one go.
There is a small fee for applying through UCAS, which is detailed on the UCAS website.
The UCAS 2024 application fee is £22.50 for applying to a single course and £27 for more than one course.
It's best to submit your application by the UCAS 'equal consideration deadline', which is usually towards the end of January (of the year you want to start your course).
The deadline date is available on the UCAS website.
You can still apply after the January deadline, but you could miss out on your chosen course because it could become full or the entry requirements could change.
You can submit your application from September in the year before you start your course, so you’ve got plenty of time to put together an application.
When you submit your application, UCAS will send us your details and we'll send you an email to confirm your application.
You'll also get confirmation from UCAS that your application was received.
UCAS will also send you details of how to log into UCAS Hub , which you use to follow the progress of your application.
Taking a gap year is a great way to learn new skills, travel, earn some money and get some work experience.
If you want to take a year out before you start your course, apply for 'deferred entry' when you complete your UCAS application.
If you’re not sure, see our advice on the pros and cons of deferring your place .
Many of our courses accept deferred entry, but some don’t.
Contact our admissions team to find out if the course you’re applying for accepts deferred entry before you submit your application.
If you want to apply for deferred entry, it's still best to apply as soon as possible.
You’ll need to meet the conditions of any offers by the end of August in the year you apply, not the year you start.
If you don't apply for deferred entry on your UCAS application, you can switch to deferred entry up until the start of your course (provided your course accepts deferrals).
Get a taste of student life at Portsmouth, by visiting us at an Open Day.
You'll learn more about courses, meet potential new classmates, hear from our academics and talk with our support teams.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/how-to-apply-for-part-time-and-distance-learning-undergraduate-courses:
How, when and where to apply for our part-time and distance learning undergraduate courses
Browse part-time courses
Browse distance learning courses
Studying a part time course, or studying through distance learning, can be a useful option depending on your circumstances.
Whether you're already working, have family commitments, or just don't want to commit to studying full time, our part-time undergraduate degrees give you access to our Gold Rated teaching programmes, on a schedule that works around you.
While it'll take longer to finish a part-time course, it's the perfect option if you need your studies to fit around your lifestyle.
It's the right option if:
We have a selection of undergraduate courses that you can study through distance learning.
As part of your application, you'll need to:
Apply as soon as possible before the start of your course.
This way, you won’t miss out on the critical opening weeks of your course and university events.
Find my course
There is no set deadline to send in your part-time or distance learning applications, but it's best to apply as soon as possible before the start of the course.
In some cases, a deadline might be applicable, but this will be clearly indicated on the course page.
We aim to reply to applicants within 10 working days of a full application being submitted.
This could be a reply with an offer, but it may also be to request further information to help with our decision.
Whether you're familiar with Portsmouth or new to the city, enter our virtual experience to discover what a day in the life of a Portsmouth student looks like.
You can also learn more about our course, facilities and tour our accommodation.
Enter our Virtual Experience
We're here to help every step of the way.
Once you've applied for university, there's still lots you can do while you wait for a decision on your application.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/how-to-write-a-ucas-personal-statement:
Read our guide on what it is, what to include, how to start, length and what makes a good personal statement
This guide covers everything you need to know about how to write a personal statement for university.
We look at what it is and how you can start your personal statement.
We've also got questions to guide you and a suggested personal statement structure you can use so you know what to put in it.
If you'd like even more resources, support and UCAS personal statement examples, you can sign up to access our personal statement hub .
The personal statement is part of your UCAS application.
It's how you show your chosen universities why you'll make a great student and why they should make you an offer.
Your personal statement also helps you think about your choice of course and your reasons for applying, so you know you’ve made the right decision.
Starting your personal statement can seem scary when you're staring at a blank screen.
But, things will seem less daunting once you start.
Ideally, you want to leave yourself plenty of time – a few weeks or even months – to plan and write your personal statement.
Try not to leave it to the last minute, as tempting as this may seem when you've got so many other things to think about.
Now it's time to write your personal statement using your notes.
It's best to draft it on a computer, and remember to save it regularly.
You can copy and paste it into your UCAS application when you're happy with it.
While there's no set template for a personal statement, you may find it useful to follow this personal statement structure when you decide what to put in your statement.
You might have heard that UCAS is going to change the format of personal statements - from one long piece of text, to three sections that each answer a separate question.
These changes are on the way, but they'll be introduced for applications to start university in 2026 onwards.
So if you're applying to start studying in 2025, you'll still write your UCAS personal statement as usual.
You can also find out more about the personal statement changes for 2026 onwards in our blog.
Watch videos, get top tips and download our help sheets – that's what our personal statement hub is for.
It's for you to write your story, so you can show your strengths, ideas and passion to your chosen universities.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/applying-after-january:
Even though the January UCAS deadline has passed you can still apply to study with us this September.
Whether you're a UK, EU or international student there are three ways that you can still apply.
You can use apply through the normal UCAS application process if you have not yet submitted any applications at all through UCAS.
This option remains open until 30 June 2025.
After that all applications automatically go into Clearing.
UCAS Extra is open from 26 February to 4 July 2025.
How you apply through UCAS Extra will depend on whether you've used up all your five choices and whether you've had any offers.
Our guide to UCAS Extra
You can also use our direct application form if you are applying to study an undergraduate course.
You'll find the application forms on each course page.
As long as we're still accepting applications on your chosen course, you can apply directly to us after the January UCAS deadline.
From July, you can then apply for many undergraduate courses through Clearing .
Choose your course

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/how-we-assess-undergraduate-applications:
Find out how we assess your application and what we look for
When you apply for one of our undergraduate courses, we'll look at the unique combination of your past and predicted academic achievements and qualifications when making a decision.
It doesn't end there — we'll carefully consider everything in your application, and take it all into account.
Your personal statement, reference, and any achievements or experience outside of your studies will all be looked at.
On some courses, we might ask you to submit a portfolio of work, have an interview, or take a test.
Most of all, we look for applicants that are committed to achieving their goals, and who are enthusiastic about excelling at the University of Portsmouth.
Now you know how we assess your application, take a look at one of our Gold-rated undergraduate courses and take the first step towards your exciting future.
At the University of Portsmouth, we accept students of all ages and value age diversity.
Whether you are fresh out of school or returning to education after a long break, you'll find a supportive and stimulating environment to pursue your studies.
More than a quarter of our students are 'mature', which means aged 21 and over at the beginning of their course.
If you're a mature student , we understand you might have different academic qualifications as students who have just left school or college.
We accept various qualifications on our courses and can take other factors into account such as your work experience.
People of all ages are welcome to apply to us.
If you’re under 18, we consider your application in the same way we do for older applicants.
You'll just need to understand you’ll be studying in an adult environment.
Also, some courses aren't appropriate for under 18s.
Please contact us to find out if your chosen course accepts applicants under 18.
We believe that going to university can help people move up in the world, reach their goals and achieve their ambitions.
We recognise that we must do more to raise aspirations by removing barriers and obstacles to higher education, especially for those who live in our region.
To realise these ambitions, alongside issuing adjusted offers using established widening participation data, we also issue adjusted offers to those within our region.
The adjusted offer will be lower than the typical course offer and will be signposted in the offer email.
Please don't give us details of the offences when you apply.
If you declare a conviction, your application will be passed to our University Criminal Convictions panel for a decision on whether we can make you an offer.
If you are invited to an interview for a professional healthcare or dental course, you'll be required to declare if you have ever been subject to any disciplinary procedures, or fitness to practice processes by any regulator, professional body, employer or educational establishment.
If you declare a fitness to practice issue, your application will be passed to a senior member of faculty staff for the course you have applied for to make a decision on whether we can make you an offer.
If you've got questions about how we assess your application, or need a hand with applying, we're here to help.
It's easy to start your application to university.
We'll help you every step of the way — from choosing the perfect course, to what you need to do when you get your exam results.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-for-undergraduate-courses/after-you-apply-for-an-undergraduate-course:
While you wait for a decision on your application, there's still plenty to keep you busy
You can apply for student finance in the spring before the start of your course.
Don’t wait until you get an offer or receive your exam results – apply as soon as you can.
You can find out more about student finance, including scholarships and bursaries, on our fees and funding page .
If you're a UK or EU student, we’ll send you details of how to apply for a room in halls when we offer you a place .
In the meantime, find out more about your accommodation options and take a look at where you could be living by touring our halls of residence.
View our halls of residence
If you don’t want to wait for a decision or you change your mind about a choice before you accept it, you can withdraw an application for any of your choices in UCAS Hub .
To get feedback on an unsuccessful application, email feedback@port.ac.uk with your name and the course you applied for.
We’ll get back to you within 5 working days.
For more information, please see page 10 of our Admissions Policy document .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/recognition-of-prior-learning-rpl:
Start your course at the appropriate level
Credits are a standard way of measuring learning.
RPL means you can start your course at the appropriate level and reduce the amount of credits you need to study to gain a qualification.
For example, you could use RPL to start in the second year of a Bachelor's degree or put it towards the total credits you need to complete a course.
Whether you can use RPL depends on how well your previous knowledge, skills or experience matches the modules on your course.
There are 3 types of RPL you can put towards a qualification:
You can put more than one of these types of RPL towards a qualification.
Credit transfer is when you put credits from a previous UK higher education (university-level) qualification towards a new qualification.
We can accept credits from qualifications you've completed in the last 5 years.
Higher education qualifications include Foundation and Bachelor's degrees, HNC and HNDs, postgraduate certificates and diplomas, and Master's degrees.
Most standard qualifications are equal to a certain number of credits.
For instance, at undergraduate level, an HNC is worth 120 credits and an HND is worth 240 credits.
If you started but didn't complete a UK higher education course or you have a higher education qualification or credits from a non-UK institution, you may be able to use prior certified learning (see below) instead of credit transfer.
Prior certificated learning is university-level learning that didn't result in a UK higher education qualification or credits.
This can include professional development and employment-based awards, qualifications awarded by a non-UK higher education institution, and university courses you didn't complete.
Prior experiential learning relates to knowledge and skills you've gained through experience.
For example, through employment or voluntary work.
The way you apply for RPL depends on the type of RPL you want to put towards your qualification.
Before you apply for RPL, you need to have applied for your course or be registered on it.
Details of how to apply are on each course page .
The deadline for applying for RPL depends what you're using it for.
Remember to give yourself enough time to work on your portfolio of evidence, if this applies.
The maximum amount of RPL you can put towards a qualification is two-thirds of the total credit value of the course.
For example, you could put up to:
You can't use marks from modules you completed on another course in calculating the final classification of an award when you use RPL.
However, if a board of examiners feels that you've been at a disadvantage because you've used RPL, they may make a higher classification of award.
Also, you can't use RPL for a course you've already completed.
For example, if you want to repeat a module or year to get a higher final classification.
Applying for RPL is free for most of our courses.
There's a fee for assessing your portfolio of evidence for work-based degrees .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/recognition-of-prior-learning-rpl/compiling-your-recognition-of-prior-learning-rpl-portfolio:
There are 3 types of recognition of prior learning (RPL) you can convert into credits to put towards a qualification – credit transfer, prior certificated learning and prior experiential learning.
To convert prior certificated learning or prior experiential learning into RPL credits, you need to put together a portfolio of evidence with your application.
When you submit your application, the University Admissions Centre will contact you with further information about applying for recognition of prior learning, which will include copies of the form you need to complete.
You can then complete this form (.doc) and attach it to your application with your portfolio of evidence.
It's important you present your RPL portfolio in a logical way so it highlights your knowledge, skills and experience to assessors.
Here's an example RPL portfolio structure you can use when you put your portfolio together:
When you're deciding what evidence to include in your RPL portfolio, make sure it meets the following criteria:
It's essential that each learning experience you include in your RPL portfolio contains evidence that you've reflected on and applied what you've learnt.
Use these questions to help you identify and reflect on relevant learning experiences:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/how-to-prepare-for-your-university-interview:
Universities hold interviews to meet you and assess you're fit for the course you've applied for.
The interview process also helps universities assess your academic potential, self-motivation and ability to engage with your subject within and outside your coursework.
For some of our courses, you'll need to come to an interview or complete an admissions test before we make a decision on your application.
Depending on the course, we may interview all candidates, or a shortlist of potential students we'd like to learn more about.
Interviews and tests vary between courses.
We'll always tell you what to expect, what to bring and where to go.
If a course does require an interview or test, it will say so on the course page on our website and the UCAS course search.
If you have questions about the interview process or need help along the way, contact our Admissions Team:
Contact undergraduate Admissions Team
Contact postgraduate Admissions Team
In any university interview, you'll be asked some common questions, and some course and subject specific ones.
You might get caught off guard by a few questions, but remember, it's okay not to know the answer or to take your time to think about what to say.
Don't just respond with what you think we want to hear.
Be true to yourself.
You should prepare for the common questions interviewers will ask.
But honesty and injecting your personality into your answer will always reflect better than a standard, scripted response.
The following information can help you shape your answers to common questions.
Think about what makes you excited about your chosen subject.
Why do you enjoy learning about it?
Are you interested in this subject because of the theory and knowledge behind it?
Are you passionate about how this subject can be used practically?
What is it about our university that motivated you to apply?
Was it the quality of the course?
The academic experts here?
Career opportunities and job prospects?
The facilities, student community or the city?
Why did you choose your A-level subjects?
Were your expectations met by the work you did for them?
What were the most fun and challenging parts of your A-levels?
This question is deliberately broad.
Think about the personality traits you're most proud of.
What drives and motivates you as a person?
How would your friends and family describe you?
This question is often asked to find out what you enjoy outside of study.
What do you enjoy doing when you aren't studying?
Do you play sports, have hobbies or other interests?
You should highlight the things that you're good at and why — and give an example or two.
Talking about your weaknesses is always difficult, but it's important to be honest and acknowledge how you're improving.
Reflecting on your own performance will be important in your studies.
You have a lot of freedom with this question.
Your answer could be an academic achievement like getting a great mark in a tough subject, something sports related such as making a team or earning a medal, or something personal like working in a local community group.
This can be a difficult one depending on what life stage you're at, and there's no right answer.
If you've got a clear plan you should look to lay that out for your interviewer.
If you don't, that's okay too.
Instead, you could explain how this course will help you explore what you're passionate about to better shape a career that excites you.
This pointed question can be difficult to answer.
What we really want to know is 'what sets you apart from other candidates?' If this question comes at the end of the interview, your answers to other questions already have that covered.
Your answer now is about wrapping up your previous answers into a clear and concise response.
An important part of any interview is when you can turn the lens back onto the people who've been asking you questions.
You don't have to ask questions, but this is an opportunity to show how you think and work.
Try to find a question or two that will challenge your interviewer.
Your questions can be as complex or simple as you want.
If you make them stop and think, you know you've asked a good question.
You could ask about the course content, about future career prospects if you take this course, or how the university might change during the time you're there.
Bring a copy of your personal statement with you on interview day.
The chances are that our interviewers built their questions based on what you shared with them in your personal statement.
So it's handy to have a reminder of what you said.
For some courses, you'll need to submit a portfolio of your work, either electronically before the interview or in person on the day.
In both cases, you should bring a copy of your portfolio to showcase your work and achievements during the interview.
Some of our interviews include assessments.
These could be written tests or tasks.
On our creative courses, interviews can include workshops and auditions.
You'll get instructions or guidelines on how you'll be assessed, but you won't know exactly what's in store.
Focus on preparing for what you know.
Workshops and auditions can either be conducted solo or in groups, and are usually based on material you'll receive ahead of the day.
If you're invited to an interview, we're already interested in what you have to offer – what more can you share with us in person?
Spend time thinking about what we might be looking for, and how you can convince us you're the right person.
Remember that your interview will be more than just repeating your personal statement — your interviewers have already read that.
Instead, think about how you can apply what you know in new ways at university, and the kinds of things you're interested in learning more about with us.
Find a friend or someone you can practice with, get them to ask you some of the common interview questions.
You don't want to work from a script, but knowing the key parts of your story will be helpful when answering questions.
When interview day arrives, there are a few things you can do to make sure everything goes smoothly.
Some of our courses have additional checks and requirements as part of the interview process, particularly for our courses in health and childcare.
We'll make sure you're aware of these and have time to prepare or submit the information we need.
Some of our checks include:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/healthcare-courses-occupational-health-checks:
The occupational health checks you'll need before registering on a healthcare degree course
If you're coming to uni to study a course in healthcare, you'll need to complete confidential occupational health checks and a disclosure and barring service check.
When studying for a course in healthcare, you are required under Public Health England, to be vaccinated against certain diseases to protect yourself and patients.
For further information required in England is on healthcare vaccinations.
As part of your application, you are required to complete an Occupational Health questionnaire and obtain an Immunisation report from your GP.
In order to facilitate this, you will be contacted by the Portsmouth Hospitals University Trust (PHUT) Occupational Health Department.
You will be able to complete your Occupational Health questionnaire and upload your immunisation report via a link that will be sent by email.
Providing this information in sufficient time allows PHUT Occupational Health to process your application and clear you for course and clinical placement.
Please note: Not providing this information within sufficient time may delay your ability to attend clinical placements.
New students to the UK must ensure they are registered with a GP surgery.
PHUT Occupational Health provides a confidential NHS service, designed to protect your health and wellbeing on course and placement.
If you are enrolled on a healthcare worker course (excluding dental) you are required to complete the PHU NHS Trust online confidential occupational health questionnaire.
You need to arrange for an immunisation report to be completed.
This can be obtained via the following methods, please allow sufficient time to gather this information:
Please Note, this must be stamped by your GP surgery or employer to be valid.
Once completed, please send the immunisation report by email to Enquiries.OccHealth@porthosp.nhs.uk (Secure NHS email)
We do not recommend posting these documents.
If you are unable to obtain evidence of previous vaccinations you will be required to either have a blood test for immunity, and/or receive vaccinations as per the requirement for your course.
If you have any queries or questions about the Health Questionnaire or providing immunisation evidence, please contact PHUT Occupational Health directly on +44 (0) 23 9228 6365 or via email Enquiries.OccHealth@porthosp.nhs.uk
All documents you give us must contain the most up-to-date information available.
You'll do a criminal record (disclosure and barring) check during your induction week.
To do this check, you'll be required to bring some personal documents.
Visit the Government's website for details of suitable documentation .
You'll also need to provide details of your address history over the past 5 years including the full addresses, postcodes and the dates you lived at each address.
Overseas applicants are required to provide a Certificate of Good Conduct from your country.
If you've spent 12 or more consecutive months in a single foreign country in the past 5 years, you'll also need to provide a Certificate of Good Conduct (with a certified English translation if necessary).
The Certificate of Good Conduct should be dated within 6 months from your course start date.
The UK Government offers further guidance for many countries on how to obtain an overseas Certificate of Good Conduct.
If you've been accepted onto a dental care course, you need to complete our dental health checks.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying-to-uni/dental-occupational-health-checks:
Explore the health checks you'll need before registering on a dental degree course
If you've been accepted onto one of our dental courses run by the Dental Academy, you'll need to do some specific occupational health checks.
These confidential health checks help prevent placement-related illnesses or injuries and make sure necessary adjustments are made before you start your placement.
As part of your application, you'll be required to complete an Occupational Health questionnaire and obtain an Immunisation report from your GP.
Cordell Health Occupational Health Department will contact you before your start date.
After you've completed your Occupational Health questionnaire you'll have to upload it and your immunisation report via a link that will be sent by email.
During clinical practice on your course, you'll take part in exposure prone procedures (EPPs) which are invasive procedures.
Because of this and the level of occupational health clearance you need, the Department of Health requires that you have tests and/or clearance for:
You'll get the opportunity to give your consent for these tests to take place through our Occupational Health Service if you haven't already had them.
Due to the requirements by the Department of Health, you won't be able to register for a Dental Academy course at the University if you don't have clearance or give your consent to these tests.
You'll be asked to visit an occupational health nurse during your induction week and you'll be sent more details, including the date and time of your visit, closer to the appointment.
If you don't attend this appointment you won't get occupational health clearance and won't be able to register on your course.
If you have questions about this, contact Cordell Health on +44 (011) 8207 6190 or by email at enquiries@cordellhealth.co.uk
If you're studying a healthcare degree (excluding dental courses), you need to complete these specific healthcare occupational health checks.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results:
If you've received an offer to join us, here's what you need to know about what to do next

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results/getting-a-different-offer:
if you get a higher or lower offer, an offer for a different course or no offers at all
If you haven't made your choices yet, see our helpful guides:
Applying for an undergraduate course
Applying for a postgraduate master's course .
Sometimes a university will offer you a higher or lower offer than you expected.
If your offer is conditional, then we always advise you to work hard to achieve the best grades you can.
You should continue to do this even if you get a lower offer – committing to your studies and exams will help once you start uni.
If you have any additional information you would like to share with us, such as extenuating circumstances information, please contact us at admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a UK applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant).
Many factors go into whether a university can make you an offer for a course you've applied for.
They'll consider your grades, your personal statement and even individual modules from your current qualifications.
It's important they take your entire profile into consideration to give you the best opportunity at success.
Sometimes, they won't be able to make you an offer for a course you've applied for but see a better opportunity for you in another course.
When this happens, they might instead offer you a suitable alternative course to consider.
When you apply to us, we take all information you give us into account – not just your grades.
How we assess your undergraduate application
How we assess your postgraduate application
You might find that some of your offers are unsuccessful.
But don't panic if you don't get any offers at all.
If you find yourself without any offers, you might be able to add extra choices if you still have time.
If not, you can still apply to university courses through Clearing .
If you didn't use all 5 choices in your application, you can add another choice in UCAS Hub anytime before 30 June (as long as you haven't accepted or declined any offers).
If you did make 5 choices that were unsuccessful (or you declined the offers) you can use UCAS Extra anytime between 28 February and 4 July.
UCAS Extra lets you apply to 1 more course.
If you decline an offer from that course or you don't get a decision within 21 days, you can add 1 more.
Clearing opens in July each year.
It's a great opportunity to find the best course for you if you were unsuccessful in your first round of applications or have changed your mind about the course you want to do.
Accepting an offer
Getting your results
Deferring your place

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results/insurance-choice-faqs:
Get to grips with UCAS Firm and Insurance Choices
We know it can be confusing to deal with UCAS terminology, so here's a set of answers to the commonly asked questions around what an ‘insurance university’ is and what to do if you want to accept your insurance choice.
When applying, you’ll have the option to select a ‘firm’ and ‘insurance’ choice - you’ll hear this terminology used a lot!
To clarify, a firm choice is your first choice university and your insurance choice is effectively your reserve choice if your circumstances change after Results Day.
Once you select your firm and insurance choices, the other choices (if you have more than 2) will be automatically declined.
Whilst you’re waiting to hear back - and different uni’s take different amounts of time, don’t worry - you can use the time to make your decision on where you wish to attend university, as well as completing important applicant admin!
You can use this time to organise your student finance and accommodation.
Why don't you explore our Student Housing and Student Finance teams’ pages?
Then, once you have all your choices back, it's over to you!
You will now need to respond and pick your firm and insurance choice on UCAS.
Top tip - you can't make your choices until you've heard back from all the uni’s you applied to, so if you cannot pick it is likely that you are still waiting to hear back from someone.
If you put an unconditional offer as your firm choice, you won’t be able to add an insurance choice (as you won’t need one!).
Once you have entered your decisions in your UCAS Hub, you can focus on meeting the conditions of your offer.
For the majority of you, this will be based on your summer exams.
Additionally, don’t forget about using the UCAS Extra or Clearing services if you do need to use them.
These just create extra opportunities to apply.
You may not have the option to add an insurance choice because your firm choice is unconditional, meaning your place is secured and there's no need for a backup or second option.
If you change your mind after submitting your replies to UCAS, you will have 14 days to amend your choices or make swaps.
From then on, it will still be possible to do this but you will need to contact UCAS and the universities involved to request permission.
For more information, including deadlines for swapping your choices, visit UCAS .
If you want to go to your insurance choice after you've received your results, you must first decline your firm choice university, then you can apply easily through Clearing for your preferred university.
If you want to attend your insurance choice university rather than your firm choice university after Results day, you’ll need to contact the universities directly.
If you want to go to your insurance choice university once you receive your final results in the summer, you should first contact that university to make sure there are spaces on your course and you meet the entry requirements.
You’ll need to decline your firm choice university, and then apply to your preferred university directly or through Clearing.
On Results Day your insurance choice will be declined if your place at your firm (first) choice university is fully confirmed.
However, if you’ve changed your mind and want to attend your insurance choice university instead, you’ll need to contact the universities directly.
You should contact your preferred university to ensure there are spaces on your chosen course and you meet the entry requirements.
You should then contact your firm choice university to decline their offer.
Visit our Clearing hub
The process will be different depending on the university, but you won’t be able to apply for accommodation with us until we become your firm, first-choice university.
Accommodation application deadlines may influence when you need to apply and accept us as your firm first-choice university.
When you firmly accept your place with us, we’ll send you an email inviting you to apply for accommodation.
This email will include the application deadlines.
If you have questions about accommodation, email our Student Housing team student.housing@port.ac.uk.
Or take a look at our student accommodation pages .
If you don't meet the conditions of your offer, we won't reject your application straight away.
We will review your application again, but next time make a decision based on the grades you have officially achieved.
If you do not meet the conditions of your offer and we are unable to confirm your place on your chosen course, we will see whether we can make you an alternative course offer.
If we make you an alternative course offer, you can then decide whether you wish to accept this or not.
If your firm and insurance choices can not confirm your place or make you an alternative course offer, you will be released into Clearing.
Likewise, if you do not accept an alternative course offer that has been made, you will also be released into Clearing and it will allow you to apply through that service.
If you’re still seeking further information and support, please get in touch with our admissions team.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results/how-we-make-an-offer:
When making you an offer, we look at more than just your grades

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results/accepting-an-offer:
Find out what you need to do and what happens next
How you accept depends on what kind of offer you receive.
There are two types of offer:
If you applied through UCAS, you need to let us know your decision in UCAS Hub.
Before you confirm your decision in UCAS Hub, you need to wait for all the universities you chose to get back to you.
Visit the UCAS Hub
If you applied to us directly, you need to log in to your Applicant View and let us know your decision.
There is no deadline to accept your offer for the majority of our courses, but we recommend you accept as soon as possible so you know that your place is confirmed.
Log into Applicant View
All of the universities you chose need to get back to you before you can confirm your decision in UCAS Hub.
If you applied by the UCAS deadline (29 January 2025), all universities will get back to you with a decision by May.
Some will get back to you earlier.
You’ll have several weeks to make a decision once all your chosen universities have replied.
You don’t need to rush.
If you receive your last decision on or before 14 May 2025, your reply date is 5 June 2025 (except if you're using Extra to find a place).
If you receive your last decision on or before 17 July 2025, your reply date is 23 July 2025 (including Extra choices).
You’ll see decisions for each of your choices in UCAS Hub.
There are five types of decision you will see:
You only need to make a decision once all of your unis have responded to you.
You can then:
Your remaining offers will then be automatically declined.
If you are made an Unconditional offer for your Firm choice, then you won't be able to select an Insurance choice.
Go to UCAS Hub
If you change your mind about your firm or insurance choice, you can make changes by contacting UCAS within 14 days of replying to your offers.
If it’s been more than 14 days since you replied to your offers, you'll need to contact us.
You can do this up until late July.
If you hold an offer to start in Autumn 2025 and you're thinking of deferring, please contact us to discuss your options:
Some students start with us before they turn 18.
According to the law, you’re a minor until you're 18, so we have to make certain extra considerations when offering you a place.
If you’re under 18 when you apply or receive your offer, you’ll need to ask your parents or guardian to complete our parental/guardian consent form.
We can't take parental responsibility for you when you're a student here, so it's important your parents consent to the activities you'll be involved in as part of your studies.
For more information, see our Under 18 Admission Policy .
You can find the parent/guardian consent form on page 9 of that document.
Once your parents or guardian fill out the consent form, you’ll need to return it to our Admissions Office at admissions@port.ac.uk if you're a Home applicant, or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk if you're an EU or International applicant.
If you’re under 18 when you accept your offer and your parents or guardian live outside of the UK, they’ll need to appoint someone to be your UK guardian.
If you don’t have friends or family in the UK, there are organisations that can help you find the right person to support you.
You can find out more about these organisations through the Association for the Education and Guardianship of International Students (AEGIS) .
To appoint a UK guardian, your parents should complete the form on page 9 of our Under 18 Admissions Policy .
Your UK guardian should complete the form on page 11.
You’ll need to return both forms to our Admissions Office at admissions@port.ac.uk if you're a Home applicant, or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk if you're an EU or International applicant.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/getting-your-offers-and-results/supporting-your-friends-if-they-dont-get-the-grades-they-need:
Getting exam results is stressful, especially when the results are unexpected and less than hoped for.
Although you may have the grades you need to get onto your chosen university course, some of your friends might not be in such a lucky position.
They may be feeling disappointed and upset with their results
While you should be proud of yourself and celebrate your achievement, it's important to be there for your friends and support them through their next steps.
Everyone responds to bad news in different ways.
Here are some ways you can help your friends feel better if they don't get the grades they need on results day.
We all know what if feels like to receive bad news, or to not do as well as we expected.
Even though you may have had a successful results day, you can still empathise with the emotions your friends are feeling.
Receiving a disappointing exam result can be a shock to the system, especially if you worked hard and expected to do better.
The most important thing is to let your friend know you're there for them and you'll support them in choosing their next steps.
Accept that they will be upset, but don't let them wallow in this feeling.
Remind them they're not defined by one exam result.
There are still ways they can achieve their goals, but through a different route than they originally planned.
Although you received good results, and you should be happy and tell your friends about it, they may not want this rubbed in their faces.
Be sensitive to their feelings when talking about your results.
Good friends will be proud of you but they might not want to hear too much about it while they're upset.
Not everyone wants to talk about their failures straight away, and they may find it embarrassing to share results with friends and family.
Give your friend some space and time to process what's happened, and let them know that you'll be there whenever they're ready to talk.
Sometimes people just need someone who will listen to them.
Before they start thinking about what they should do next, allow them the time to vent about their feelings and get everything off their chest.
Receiving a set of bad exam results can feel like the end of the world, but it's not.
It's important that your friend knows this.
Failing their exams doesn't mean that they're a failure, it's just a small bump in the road.
Getting good exam results doesn't guarantee that you'll be successful throughout your life.
Encourage them to think positively and remain confident that things will turn out okay.
The only real failure would be giving up.
It may not feel like it at the time but they're not the only one who has experienced a blip.
Some of the most wildly successful people did badly at school or college, but this didn't stop them.
For example:
Getting worse exam results than expected isn't the end of the road.
Your friend has lots of options and you can help them think through what they want to do next.
They could:
It's a good idea to suggest to your friend that they talk to a teacher or the careers service at your school or college to help them explore all their options.
Your friend may have some big decisions to make on what they want to do next, but this doesn't mean they have to make them immediately.
Doing something small can help them to relax and get their mind off of things.
It will help to get out of the results hall as seeing other people getting positive results may make them feel even worse.
Take them out for a short walk, or get a coffee together.
It doesn't have to be big, just something to help them forget about the situation for a short while.
You could also give them something they can look forward to.
The next few days will be stressful for them as they navigate their next steps, so organise to meet up for dinner or to go to the cinema the following week.
I was disappointed on results day but I received plenty of advice and encouragement that I’d find a place through Clearing.
When I got my place I was relieved as I worried that I wouldn’t get in anywhere.
It will be okay!
Guy Harrison, BSc (Hons) Biology

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/preparing-for-uni:
Follow our guide to starting university
You've been accepted to uni and all you need to do now is get ready to start.
So what comes next?
You can do a few things in the months leading up to your arrival to prepare for university, including figuring out what to bring from home, learning to cook for yourself and sorting out your finances.
Use our guide to starting university and feel at home before you move in.
Starting Uni: What I Wish I’d Known is a warm and practical guide for new students stepping into life at University of Portsmouth.
From first-day tips and study support to balancing life and learning, this series offers real advice from students and staff who’ve been there.
Whether you're nervous, curious, or just excited to begin, you'll find reassurance, community, and confidence to help you thrive in our Island city from day one.
In this episode of What I Wished I’d Known, Associate Dean Mary Williams chats with first-year student Chelsea about her journey through university life at the University of Portsmouth.
From pre-arrival worries to mastering independence, Chelsea shares how supportive flatmates, joining the Dance Society, and embracing the Portsmouth community made her first year unforgettable.
Listen on Spotify , Apple Podcasts and Amazon Music .
In this episode of What I Wished I’d Known, James from the Student Life team is joined by Kevin Child, Director of Support Services at the University of Portsmouth.
Together, they explore how new students – especially those with disabilities or neurodivergence – can prepare for university life.
From early planning and accessing learning platforms to peer support and student-led guidance, Kevin shares how the University fosters a safe, compassionate, and inclusive environment from day one.
In this episode of What I Wished I’d Known, Senior Lecturer Lee Woods chats with University of Portsmouth alumni Mimi Nwosu about her journey from sixth form to discovering civil engineering and thriving in the industry.
Arriving with no set expectations, Mimi embraced new opportunities, built lasting friendships, and found her passion.
She reflects on how Portsmouth’s supportive and diverse community helped her grow both academically and personally – and how forming networks at university laid the foundation for her career.
In this episode of What I Wished I’d Known, Associate Dean Mary Williams chats with recent graduate Sophia Joshi about how she balanced part-time work, studies, and social life during her time at the University of Portsmouth.
Sophia shares practical tips for staying on track, including how she made the most of her mornings and evenings, found unexpected study spots, and built lasting friendships.
Her story is a reassuring reminder that with flexibility and support, it’s possible to thrive both academically and personally.
Start thinking early about what to pack for your new student room.
Resist the temptation to bring everything you own.
You won't have loads of space in your university accommodation, especially if you're sharing a kitchen and bathroom.
Use our packing checklists to make sure you have everything to you need.
Find out what to pack for university
If you're moving into uni halls, you'll want your room to feel cosy and customised to your tastes.
Get a few prints and posters for your wall.
Print off photos of friends and family and make them into a collage in case you miss them.
When living away from home, especially in shared accommodation, you should reduce risks to your possessions.
Get contents insurance when you start uni to protect your possessions from theft, fire or accidents.
You'll need to know how to cook when you arrive at uni.
Cooking your own food will save you money and keep you healthier than buying ready-made meals or fast food.
Bring your favourite cookbook or follow some good student cooking blogs or YouTube channels for meal ideas on a budget.
Ask your mum, dad or guardian to teach you how to cook your favourite dish.
Or learn your favourite recipes with friends.
Practising recipes when preparing for uni will make it easier to get into the habit of cooking.
Being able to cook your favourite recipe will also give you a taste of home when you're away.
Plan your first food shop just before you get to uni.
Ask your parents or guardian if they'll show you how to order your groceries online.
Order a food shop to arrive on your first weekend.
You won't have to worry about finding the closest shops while moving in, and you'll get supplies delivered straight to your door.
To find out more about where to go for great food, culture, shopping and green spaces in Portsmouth, visit our Life outside Study pages.
If you can, save up some money before you arrive at uni.
Plan your spending wisely and take advantage of the many student discounts on offer to save while you study.
It's a good idea to make a budget when preparing for university.
You should have an idea of how much money you'll have in the bank each month, depending on loans and savings you accumulate before uni.
Add up your monthly essential expenses and take this away from the total money you expect to have each month.
Essentials will include your rent, bills, transport costs and food.
Plan your extra spending such as clothes and nights out using the money left over.
You can have a regular bank account as a student, but a student bank account has extra benefits.
The benefits are different depending on the bank you choose.
They could include an interest-free overdraft, a free railcard or free cash.
Totum is a discount card and app exclusively for students.
It's approved by the National Union of Students (NUS) and gets you money off clothes, shoes, electronic devices, entertainment and restaurants.
You should consider getting a young person's railcard if you travel by train regularly.
The railcard costs £30 a year (or £70 for 3 years) and gets you up to 1/3 off rail fares across England, Scotland and Wales.
You'll save a lot of money if you're planning to visit friends and family by train.
You can also use the railcard to get savings on experiences and days out .
If possible, take a trip to your new uni campus and get an idea of where the main buildings are – including the Students' Union .
You'll feel more comfortable arriving for your induction if you've already walked around campus.
Find out how to get from your accommodation to the main lecture theatres and the library.
You could also download Google maps of the city or campus to your phone so you're prepared when you arrive.
Look out for important services when you're getting to know the campus, such as IT, student finance, careers, wellbeing, and the Students' Union.
Download a map of our campus
Where our main buildings are located
To make sure you can get medical treatment if you need it, you should register with a GP as soon as you get to university.
As a new student, you'll need to provide proof of your new address and fill out a medical questionnaire.
Consider if you need a bus pass or a bike, or a parking permit if you're bringing a car.
At Portsmouth, you can use our University buses .
The bus routes passes our main University buildings and the most popular student residential areas.
We have over 1,500 cycle hoops and bike racks across campus, including secure 4 cycle cages that require a student or staff ID to enter.
Our guide to staying safe on campus gives more advice on protecting your bike.
Prepare for university and for making new friends by joining a student-led group.
The Students' Union will have a list of societies and sports clubs on their website.
Look over the list before you arrive at uni to know what societies and sports clubs to visit during Fresher's Week.
Our Students' Union has over 120 societies and sports clubs , and you can find out more about staying active in the city at our Sport website .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/preparing-for-uni/what-to-bring-to-uni:
Use our checklists to make sure you've got everything you'll need to get started at university
Download our packing list for catered accommodation
Download our packing list for self-catered accommodation
At uni you'll need clothing, bedding, stationery and home comforts like photos or decorations.
Most student rooms come with a bed, desk and clothing storage, so you won't need to bring furniture.
Your housing contract will list any furniture in your room so you should check if you need to bring anything before you move in.
You'll need:
You'll probably do plenty of work in your room as well as relaxing, so consider bringing items to help you feel comfortable at your desk such as a fan, desk tidy and small rubbish bin.
You won't need to bring all your clothes at the start of the year, but you should pack some essentials and make sure you have outfits for different types of weather.
Clothes to bring:
You probably won't be allowed to do things like light candles or blue tack posters to the wall, but you can still make your bedroom feel like home.
Decorate your room with lights, family photos in frames or colourful bedding and cushions.
These items can help you feel at home:
Depending on your accommodation you might have a bathroom to yourself or share with other people.
Some people store their bathroom items in a lightweight shower caddy and only take them to the bathroom when they need them.
This protects your items from getting muddled with someone else's, but isn't as convenient as keeping your shower products in the bathroom.
You can decide what works for you.
If you're living with others, discuss how you'll buy shared necessities like bathroom soap and toilet paper.
You may choose to organise a rota and take it in turns to buy these items for the house.
You can bring most bathroom items with you or choose to save space and buy them when you arrive.
You could also bring:
You'll also need personal supplies like:
You can buy most of these at uni if you don't bring them from home – waiting until you get here can save space in your car for other items that you can't buy after you arrive.
Make a small first aid kit with:
It's worth buying some cold relief before term starts so you're prepared for freshers' flu.
You won't feel like popping to the shop if you're unwell.
Depending on your accommodation you'll need different kitchen supplies.
If you're in catered halls, your halls will provide some of your meals but might not provide them all.
Find out what's included in your tenancy and what you'll need to arrange yourself before you arrive.
Speak to your flatmates ahead of time and find out what they're happy to share before you move in.
Some houses share plates, cutlery and appliances while other people prefer to have their own.
Most self-catered accommodation will provide you with a kettle, toaster and microwave.
Check your housing contract to find out what's included in your tenancy.
It's tempting to buy everything ahead of time but it can be easier to do a shop once you've settled in.
You can buy plenty of kitchen supplies once you arrive at uni, such as tin foil, cling film and kitchen cleaning products.
If you can shop the day you arrive it's worth leaving bin bags, washing up liquid and kitchen roll until then too.
Basic items:
If you're in self-catered accommodation, you'll also need:
Optional extras:
There are plenty of things you can bring to uni to keep you entertained, help you make friends and get ready for your degree.
There are also important things you'll need to have available while you study.
You usually won't need to buy textbooks for your course because they'll be available in your university library or online.
Check your reading lists when you get them and decide if you want your own copy of any of the books.
If you can, pick these up or get them delivered once you're at university to save packing space when you move in.
Although your accommodation will probably have wifi arranged by your landlord or you and the other tenants, connecting your laptop or computer to the router with a cable can improve your connection.
You might be tempted to bring everything you own with you to uni but you'll probably only live in the same house for a year.
That's a lot of items to move when some of them won't see any use.
Most students head home over the Christmas break so you can pick up or drop off more items in December too.
Here are some things that you should not bring with you:
You'll also travel to and from lectures, study at university buildings, and spend time with friends and societies outside of the house.
a rain coat and hat, and possibly an umbrella for super rainy days — Portsmouth can be very windy though, so don't just rely on your umbrella to keep you dry!
Planning and packing before you move to uni is only half the battle, and you'll need to move everything in and unpack once you arrive too.
When you get here don't forget to:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/after-you-apply/changing-university:
Deciding if changing university is right for you and how to get started
Even though you likely spent a long time making a decision about your uni and course, sometimes things don't work out as you expected.
And that's OK.
Not everyone makes the right decision about university when there's so many things to consider.
Your circumstances can change too.
You might need to move to a more affordable city or closer to home, or maybe your current course doesn't offer modules that suit your career ambitions.
Having the opportunity to learn from specific academic staff is another common reason to change courses.
If you're weighing up changing university, there are a few things worth thinking over before you make the switch.
Before you change university
How to change university
There are a few things you should do before making the jump and changing university.
Before you do anything, it's good to explain your situation to someone with experience of helping students with similar concerns.
If you've already started your course, speak with your personal tutor.
You could also get support from your University's students' union and speak with your uni's student finance team.
If you haven't started your course yet, you can get advice from an adviser or teacher at your school or college.
Depending on what university course you're switching to, there may be additional costs involved.
So you need to factor this in to your decision.
See our advice below and talk to your Student Finance Team to see how you'll be affected.
If you're a UK student, the tuition fees for undergraduate courses like Bachelor's degrees are similar across all universities.
However, your tuition fee loans from Student Finance usually only cover the length of your original course plus one extra (lifeline) year.
This means a year out for changing your course or repeating a year is taken from your balance and could affect your ability to get funding for the whole length of your new course.
If you have to change unis because of compelling personal reasons, your Student Finance Team can help you collect and provide evidence for this.
If your evidence is accepted by Student Finance, then repeating a year when you change unis won't affect your balance.
If you're a Master's student, you're only entitled to one Masters loan from the government.
So if you change course or repeat a year you won't be able to take out a second loan.
It's also important to note that fees for postgraduate courses such as Master's can vary a lot between courses and universities.
Universities must display study costs on their course pages .
Make sure you budget for extra costs when you decide to switch.
The amount of your maintenance loan is based on the length of your original course and where you live.
If you move back home with a parents or guardian, or change to a shorter course, your maintenance loan instalments might be reduced.
When you change uni and are no longer registered on your original course, you'll be required to pay back any loans you're paid after your change.
Make sure to keep account of this, as not repaying the extra money could cause your funds to be withheld next time you apply.
If losing your maintenance loan immediately after leaving a course will put you in financial difficulty, talk to your Student Finance Team.
They can help you collect and submit evidence to Student Finance England in an appeal not to stop ongoing payments.
Some bursaries and scholarships are only available on certain courses or at certain universities.
This might give you access to additional funding after you switch.
But it's possible you might lose some of your funding too.
The cost of living is another thing you need to consider.
If you're thinking about switching unis, bear in mind the cost of accommodation, socialising and basic food items can vary between regions and cities.
For more advice on this, see our guide to the cost of living in popular cities.
In many cases, you can switch courses at the start of an academic year without having to extend your studies.
However, you may need to study for longer if you're transferring midway through your course and can't transfer all of your module credits.
And some similar courses are longer – for example, if you switch to a 4-year integrated Master's degree from a 3-year Bachelor's degree.
If you want to change universities, each university's switching process is different.
Here's how the process works at the University of Portsmouth.
When you change your course at the start of your studies, you might miss the first few weeks of teaching.
However, please note you won't get:
If you're planning to change university mid-way through your first-year, you may have to defer your entry to the following academic year.
If you want to join us from another university after you've completed an academic year, you need to apply online through UCAS .
When you apply, you need to specify your 'point of entry', which translates to the year you want to begin:
If you've already started studying at another university, the best way to begin the switching process to the University of Portsmouth is to contact our admissions team by email at admissions@port.ac.uk or call them on +44 (0)23 9284 5566 .
When we’ve made a decision on your application, we'll let you know if we’re offering you a place.
Some courses require you to submit a portfolio or attend an interview, admissions test or audition as part of your application.
Some also require a successful health check or criminal records check.
You can find all this information on the course page.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/learning-and-academic-support:
Everything you need to help you reach your academic potential
Everyone needs a little help with their studies from time to time, whether you're a fresher taking your first steps into uni life or a seasoned student who knows your way around university, it could always be helpful to consider a personal academic tutor.
When you study with us, you can access extensive student support to help you during your course.
As well as access to subject experts such as professors and researchers on your course, you'll get a personal tutor.
Your personal university tutor gives you academic and personal support throughout your time here.
If it's your first time at uni, your personal tutor helps you make the transition from school or college.
If necessary, they'll signpost you to academic and personal support services.
They can support you with everything from writing essays, to dealing with homesickness, accessing funding and choosing your optional modules.
You'll meet with your personal tutor in scheduled group and one-to-one sessions.
They're also available between sessions if you have urgent issues or concerns.
You'll find out their availability and how to contact them during your first sessions.
If you're looking to develop your course-specific academic skills, you can get in touch with learning support and development tutors for help.
Each faculty has a team of staff with the knowledge and expertise to give you the right support when you need it.
Our tutors at the University will help you improve your current skills or develop new skills relevant to your course.
Some faculties support you with additional things, like impartial advice and extenuating circumstances.
If you have a disability, medical condition or learning difference such as dyslexia, you can get confidential advice and guidance from our Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre (ASDAC).
Services you can use include:
You can get support and guidance from ASDAC before you apply and during your studies.
Contact us any time, by email on asdac@port.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0)23 9284 3462 .
To help you make the most of our library resources, you can get support from Library staff in person or by email, phone or online chat.
For instance, if the book you want is not in stock, it may be requested via the Interlibrary Loans Service.
You can also ask for one-to-one appointments and get support from a librarian who specialises in your subject area.
You can also get information on topics such as referencing, reading lists and booking study rooms on the Library website.
The Library is open 24 hours a day, every day, in term time.
You can find more detailed information on the Library opening hours page.
Not a tech boffin?
Don't worry – you can get help with all your computer issues face-to-face at the IT help centre in the Library, and by phone, email and online chat.
If you're studying late or over the weekend, you can get IT help 24 hours a day, every day of the week with our out-of-hours service.
You also have access to:
Qualified laboratory support staff work in most of our labs and practical spaces.
They'll support you in scheduled lab sessions and can give you one-to-one help during practical research projects.
Struggling with a maths-related problem?
Need a little help with stats?
Want to improve your mathematics skills?
Whatever your area of study or level of maths knowledge, the Maths Café provides free advice and maths help in an informal environment.
Come to our daily drop-in sessions, develop your maths skills at a workshop or use our online resources.
You'll get access to LinkedIn Learning – an online library of more than 15,000 courses, covering hundreds of skill areas.
You can use it to develop your study skills and learn transferable skills to enhance your CV.
LinkedIn Learning usually costs £15–25 a month but it's free for all our students and staff.
Some of the most popular courses include Excel Essentials, Programming and Coding, Project Management, Data Analysis Software, Virtual Design Software, and Critical Thinking.
If you need support but aren't sure who to contact, pop into one of our MyPort Hubs – part of a network of information centres across the campus.
As well as signposting you to the services you need, staff can help with common questions related to your course and the University.
Borrow a laptop for your studies

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-faqs:
We’ve compiled answers to the most common questions about the application and admissions process.
If you can’t find the answer you’re looking for, please contact our Admissions Teams.
You can find all the information about applying to us on our ‘How to apply’ pages .
You’ll need to visit the UCAS website and submit an application online.
You can find information about filling in the application on the UCAS website.
You can also apply to us directly from the application link at the bottom of our course pages .
Our undergraduate degree programmes offer an excellent teaching structure and cutting-edge facilities on our modern city campus.
If you’re still deciding on the right course to study, take a look at the degrees we offer .
The course pages include details of course content, teaching structure and career pathways.
You can also search for a course by subject area if you aren’t sure which course is right for you.
You can also read our guide to ‘ Choosing where and what to study ’.
Find out more about UCAS application deadlines on the UCAS website .
The deadline is usually towards the end of January.
If you’re applying directly to us, only some of our courses have set application deadlines.
These are specified on the course pages If you’re unsure of the deadline, please email admissions@port.ac.uk .
We encourage you to apply as soon as possible.
Take a look at our support and guidance for writing a great personal statement , including the personal statement hub.
Our hub is full of resources to help you make your personal statement the best it can be.
For health care, social care and dental care courses, we screen personal statements for particular criteria.
Our page about demonstrating the NHS values has advice about information to include in your application.
Yes, you can.
Whether you apply using UCAS or our direct application form, you will have a space to enter a personal statement.
If you’re applying for different courses within your five choices, you may wish to submit an additional personal statement.
If necessary, you can email your additional personal statement to us at admissions@port.ac.uk after you’ve submitted your application.
Please include your ID number so we can add this to your application.
If you’re unable to provide an academic reference, we can accept a professional reference from your workplace.
We understand that if you’ve been out of university for a while, it may not be easy (or relevant) to get back in touch with your old lecturers, or that you may not have attended university before.
If you can’t provide a professional reference, other referees might be able to help you.
Please email admissions@port.ac.uk if you're a Home applicant, or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk if you're an EU or International applicant, for further guidance.
You can check the status of your application via our Applicant View system , or if you applied via UCAS, check it in UCAS Hub .
Once you've submitted your application, there are still some things to do before you start with us.
Read our guidance on ‘getting your offers and results’ to find out what you need to do next.
And check out our other information about preparing for uni .
Our MyPort website (aimed at current students) has lots of information to help you settle in to uni when you arrive.
It’s useful to start getting your head around the MyPort website as you’ll be using it a lot.
If you’re taking a distance learning course, you’re still welcome to visit us in Portsmouth and take advantage of the on-campus facilities.
We aim to reply to you within 10 working days of submitting your full application.
Our reply might include a request for further information to help us make a decision or an invite to interview.
If we can make a decision straight away, we will contact you via email to confirm whether we can issue an offer.
For any updates on your application, you can track its progress using your Applicant View portal.
If you require further help in relation to an update, please email our dedicated Global Admissions team, who are looking after your application, who will be able to assist at globaladmissions@port.ac.uk .
A transcript lists the modules you’ve taken during each academic year, their credit value, and the marks you obtained in each module.
You can upload any qualifications we’ve asked for in the "Documents" section of the Applicant View system .
If you're having difficulty uploading your documents, you can email them to admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant)
Our Admissions team needs to review the information you provided.
Once approved, this section in Applicant View will change from red/amber to blue, showing no further action is required.
This is a manual process for our team.
We aim to respond to all applicants as soon as we receive additional information.
Please keep checking your Applicant View and your emails in the days after submission for updates.
You will hear from us soon.
If you want further information about the status of your application, please email us at admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant).
We express entry requirements for our courses using UCAS Tariff point ranges.
Most qualifications have a UCAS Tariff value depending on the qualification size and grade achieved; for example, an A Level at B grade is worth 40 points.
Use the UCAS points calculator on our ‘entry requirements for undergraduate courses’ page to calculate your UCAS points.
We normally make individual offers within the tariff range published on our course pages.
For the most popular courses, we expect to make offers at the upper end of the range.
We like to consider every application on an individual basis, taking into account your entire profile, including your qualifications, experience and enthusiasm for study.
After your application has been reviewed in full, you’ll be sent an offer based on all of the information you provided.
We’ll make you a bespoke offer for the course based on your predicted grades.
You can find the entry requirements for a particular course on its dedicated course page.
You can search for our courses here .
If you are still unsure, please feel free to email your qualification(s) to admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) and one of our team will be able to help you.
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) allows you to convert relevant university-level knowledge, skills and experience into credits you can put towards a qualification.
RPL can come from previous study, employment, voluntary work and training courses, including courses and qualifications you didn't complete.
Please visit our ‘Recognition of Prior Learning’ page to view the different types of RPL and which one is most applicable to you.
For further guidance, please email admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) and one of our team will be able to help you.
If we've asked you for a unit descriptor, it's likely you're taking a BTEC or Access to HE Diploma qualification and we need to assess whether you're taking the right units to meet our entry criteria.
Please provide us with a syllabus of your course and a list of the units you're taking, including the unit title and the credits associated to the unit.
You can usually find this information in a course or unit handbook, or from your current school or college.
Please send this information to admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) and one of our team will be able to help you.
Scholarship opportunities may be available for the course you’re interested in.
Contact our Student Finance Centre for questions about finance and funding your studies – studentfinance@port.ac.uk .
Find more information on our ‘Scholarships and bursaries for undergraduate students page .
Contact our Global Team for questions about finance and funding your studies – global@port.ac.uk
Find more information on our ‘Scholarships for international students’ page .
If you’re paying your tuition fees with a tuition fee loan, the Government will pay your tuition fees to us directly.
If you or a sponsor are paying your tuition fees, we’ll send you an invoice when you need to pay.
Find more information on our tuition fees page .
To pay your tuition fees, head to our ‘make a payment’ page .
Contact the Income team for advice about making a payment for your course, or any payment-related queries – income@port.ac.uk or +44(0)23 9284 5533 .
If your enquiry is related to applying for a student loan or any other funding-related enquiries e.g.
scholarships and bursaries, please contact our Student Finance team – studentfinance@port.ac.uk
When you apply to study with us, we’ll use the information you provided to determine your fee status as Home, EU or International.
If we need more information, we might ask you to complete an online fee assessment questionnaire or provide further documents.
If you’d like to know more about this process, please visit our Fee Assessment Information Page , or if you have any questions, please contact feeassessment@port.ac.uk .
Accommodation application deadlines may influence when you need to apply by and accept us as your firm first-choice university.
If you have questions about accommodation, email our Student Housing team student.housing@port.ac.uk .
If you applied through UCAS, you need to let us know your decision in UCAS Hub .
If you’re unsure how to accept your offer, please get in touch with UCAS.
Before you confirm your decision in UCAS Hub , you need to wait for all the universities you chose to get back to you.
If you applied by the UCAS deadline in January universities have a deadline to respond to you .
You’ll have several weeks to make a decision once all your universities have replied.
Accommodation application deadlines may influence when you need to accept Portsmouth as your firm first-choice university.
You can't make a decision on your choices until all your chosen universities get back to you in UCAS Hub.
Once they all respond, you can then:
UCAS has information about deadlines to reply to universities .
Find out more by reading about how we make our offers .
Please contact admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) for more information about contextual offers.
We normally make individual offers in the tariff range published on our course pages.
We review everyone's application individually and make you an offer in relation to your predicted grades.
If your offer is conditional, we advise you to work hard to achieve the best grades you can.
If you have more questions about your offer, pease contact admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant).
You can only swap each choice once.
Please contact UCAS to make your swaps if it’s before late July 2025.
If you don’t meet the conditions of our offer, we'll look again at your application to see if we can accept a lower grade to confirm your place.
We’ll take into account any extenuating circumstances or additional information you’ve provided.
We’ll keep you up-to-date by email and contact you by email on results day.
If we can’t offer you a place on your chosen course, we’ll see if we can offer you a different course.
If this happens, we’ll email the new offer to you, which you can choose to accept or decline.
We can withdraw your application completely, but this will delete your UCAS account.
If you’re happy with your account being deleted, email us at admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) and we will process it for you.
If you applied to us directly and withdraw your application, your Applicant View account won’t be deleted.
This won’t affect your applications with any other universities.
Your application with us can be reinstated if you want.
We consider transfers for many of our courses at the beginning of each academic year.
Whether we can admit you depends on how well the modules you've completed so far match the modules on our course.
If you’d like more information about this process, please read our guidance to Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
Please get in touch with admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) for more information about transferring to us.
We can only defer applications that are Firm with us, so you need to select us as your Firm choice before we can process this.
Once you’ve made us your Firm choice, please email admissions@port.ac.uk (if you're a Home applicant) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk (if you're an EU or International applicant) if you want to defer your place.
Please allow 12 to 24 hours for your firm choice to update on our system, and then contact us again with your deferral request.
You can request to defer your place until the first week of September, so you don't need to make a decision right away about deferring.
Not all of our courses accept deferral requests.
As a current University of Portsmouth student, you'll need to talk to your current course administration team to seek advice about your next steps.
Please contact the MyPort Hub for your course for advice .
Yes, we can provide you with proof in the format of a letter stating that you’re a student or you’re registered here.
Send your request to our MyPort Information Hub – myport@port.ac.uk .
You will be emailed information about registering onto your course, ordering your student card and how to access your personal ‘Student View’ pages from late August onwards from our registration team.
A lot of our students do part-time work while studying to earn extra money or build skills and work experience.
For advice about finding work while you study or managing your workload around your degree, email careers@port.ac.uk .
If you’re an international student and want to work while studying, read our ‘working during your studies’ information , or email global@port.ac.uk for advice.
If you want to study alongside your job, there are lots of options available to you including distance (online) learning degrees, Learning at Work degrees and Degree Apprenticeship programmes.
Find out more on our ‘studying while working’ pages .
For more information about Learning at Work courses, email learningatwork@port.ac.uk
For more information about Degree Apprenticeship courses, email degree-apprenticeship-office@port.ac.uk
If you'd like to request a letter for this purpose, login to your Student View and click on the ‘My Student View’ tab.
You will see 6 blue boxes.
To request the letter you need, click on "Request Standard Letters" and pick the one you need.
If you need something more specific or a copy of a transcript, please contact your MyPort Hub .
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you're not holding any offers, you could still find a place using UCAS Extra .
Adding another choice using Extra is easy:
Clearing gives you another opportunity to find the best course for you – whether you've changed your mind, your results surprised you or you're just starting to think about going to university this year.
Clearing opens in early July each year.
You'll need to have your exam results to go through Clearing.
When you have your results, search our Clearing courses to find out what's available.
If you're taking your A level exams in the summer, you'll get your results mid-August.
See UCAS Clearing pages for more information about the dates.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/tuition-fees-living-costs-and-other-study-costs:
Get a breakdown of your study and living costs
There are 2 types of costs you need to consider when you go to uni:
Most UK students fund their studies with Government student loans.
You may also be able to fund some or all of your tuition fees and living costs with a scholarship or bursary.
The main cost of study is your tuition fees, which are paid to the University to cover course and University costs.
Your tuition fees cover:
If you're from the UK, tuition fees in 2025/26 for all full-time undergraduate courses are £9,535 a year.
If you're an EU resident, tuition fees in 2025/26 for all Portsmouth-based full-time undergraduate courses are £9,535 a year.
This includes the EU Scholarship .
EU residents pay international fees when studying at UoP London.
Tuition fees for part-time and international students vary.
If you’re a part-time or international student, you can see tuition fees for specific courses on course pages .
If you’re paying for your tuition fees with a tuition fee loan, the Government will pay your tuition fees to us directly.
There are some course-related costs that aren’t included in your tuition fees.
So you’ll need to budget for them.
These include things like books, specialist equipment and the cost of optional field trips.
You can see the additional study costs for each course on course pages.
As well as your study costs, you'll also need enough cash to support yourself while you’re at uni.
Most students use a maintenance loan to help cover living costs.
Portsmouth is one of the most affordable places in the UK for students.
These are the average weekly outgoings for our students.
They are based on sector averages, with some variations based on local costs, monitored by our Student Finance Centre to ensure the figures accurately reflect the true cost of living in Portsmouth.
Hall fees
£110-£206
Bills (gas/electricity/water/internet)
Included in halls rent
Food/housekeeping
£45* (less if you’re in a catered hall)
Travel
£5–£10
Phone
Contents insurance
£3
TV licence
Social costs
£30–£40
Total per week
£201 - £317
Total per academic year (40 weeks)
£8,040 – £12,680
Rent
£95-£130
£35–£45*
£45*
£221 - £286
£8,840–£11,440
*May increase due to rising costs in the UK.
Living costs will vary depending on the student's living situation e.g.
shared house, living with family etc.
and actual costs can vary.
Bear in mind you might need some money for upfront costs before your maintenance loan comes through.
For example, if you're in halls or rented accommodation you'll need to pay a deposit to secure your room and may need to pay a month's rent in advance.
Make sure you've got enough cash to see you through your first few weeks of university.
How to pay your university tuition fees, accommodation fees, international fees and to notify us of your sponsor.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/student-loans-guide:
Plus information on how to repay your loans after you finish your course
Most UK university students use student loans to help pay their tuition fees and living costs.
Student loans are provided by the Government.
You only start repaying them after you finish uni if your gross income (before tax and other deductions) is more than £25,000 a year.
There are two types of student loan: a tuition fee loan to cover your tuition fees, and a maintenance loan to help with your living costs.
A tuition fee loan covers your course tuition fees, which are currently £9,250 a year for 2024/25 and will be £9,535 a year for full-time UK students studying at Portsmouth in 2025/26.
The loan is paid directly to the university.
All fees are subject to annual increases.
The amount you can borrow isn’t based on your household income.
You don’t have to borrow the full amount if you want to fund some of your tuition fees yourself.
If you’re a part-time UK student, you can get a tuition fee loan if you’re studying at least 25% of a full-time course (30 credits a year).
Ask us if you’re not sure how many credits you're studying.
Student loans from the UK government aren't available to non-UK students that don't meet the residency requirements for home fee status, but other funding options may be available.
A maintenance loan helps cover your living costs, up to £10,227 a year for 2024/25 and up to £10,544 a year for 2025/26.
It’s paid directly into your bank account in three instalments throughout the year.
The amount you get depends on where you study, where you live and your family income.
Assessed household income
Maintenance loan amount (living away from home)
Maintenance loan amount (living with parents)
£25,000 or under
£10,227
£8,610
£30,000
£9,497
£7,887
£35,000
£8,766
£7,163
£40,000
£8,035
£6,440
£45,000
£7,304
£5,716
£50,000
£6,573
£4,993
£55,000
£5,842
£4,269
£60,000
£5,111
£3,790
£70,004 or over
£4,767
Note we'll confirm 2025/26 maintenance loan amounts here soon.
If you're a part-time UK student, you can get a percentage of the maintenance loan if you’re studying at least 25% of one of the following full-time courses (30 credits a year):
If you're studying a part-time distance learning course, you'll only be eligible for a Maintenance Loan if you're studying long distance because you have a disability.
If you're a student from England, apply for your student loan on the Student Finance England website.
If you're from Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, apply through your home government:
If you're from Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, contact your local education authority:
You can apply for student loans and other student finance in the spring before the start of your course.
Don't wait until you get an offer or receive your exam results – apply as soon as you can.
Remember – you'll need to reapply before the start of each academic year, not just before your first year at uni.
If you're a part-time student, you'll be asked how many credits you're studying when you apply.
Ask us if you're not sure.
If you've taken out a UK government loan, you’ll start repaying your student loans from the April after you finish your course.
If you applied through Student Finance England or Wales, your repayments will start when your gross income (before tax and other deductions) is at least £25,000.
You'll repay 9% of your income over £25,000.
For example, if your income is £31,000 a year you’ll repay £540 a year (9% of £6,000) or £45 a month.
These figures might be different if you live outside of the UK after your course or you’re from Scotland, Northern Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man.
You can usually only get a student loan if you're doing your first undergraduate course, although there are some exceptions.
If you’re starting a course on or after 1 August 2021, you must have settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme to get student finance.
Irish citizens do not need to apply for a visa or to the EU Settlement Scheme.
If you're over 60 years old at the start of your course, you can only get a smaller maintenance loan, which is based on your income.
There's no upper age limit for the tuition fee loan.
See the Gov.uk website for full eligibility details .
Get help with each stage of the UCAS process by booking your place on our live webinars.
Make your arrival in Portsmouth as enjoyable as possible.
Our advice and guidance on how to prepare, and what to expect once you get here.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries:
See if you're eligible and find out how to apply
You may be able to partly or fully fund the costs of your study with a bursary or scholarship.
You can usually use these alongside student loans and you don't have to pay them back.
Whether you can get a scholarship or bursary depends on your circumstances.
So they aren't available to everyone.
These are the scholarships and bursaries we currently offer to home (UK) students.
You may also be eligible for some of these scholarships and bursaries if you have refugee status or you're seeking asylum.
If you're an international student, we also have information on scholarships for international students (including our EU Scholarship for EU students ).
You’ll get this bursary of £500 a year if you’re, a full-time undergraduate student from England, being charged full fees of £9,250, and your household income is £25,000 a year or less.
You can’t get this bursary if a sponsor (such as an employer or NHS organisation) is paying all or some of your tuition fees.
You don’t need to apply for this bursary.
We’ll check if you’re eligible for it once you’ve applied to Student Finance England for income-based support and it has verified your household income.
On your Student Finance England application, you just need to make sure:
If eligible, you’ll receive your bursary directly into your bank account in 3 instalments in December, February and May.
If you’re not in attendance at the University at a certain date before the bursary is due to be paid, you won’t be eligible for that instalment.
This bursary is applicable for 2025/26 entry, as subject to review.
Students who started their course prior to September 2025 will be assessed and awarded in line with an earlier eligibility criteria.
You could get this £1,700 bursary if you're a full-time undergraduate or taught postgraduate UK student and one of the following applies:
This bursary isn't based on your income.
Recipients can also receive the University Bursary.
If you're unsure of your eligibility, we can check for you.
Email us at independent@port.ac.uk or phone us at 023 9284 3076.
If you're eligible, you may also be entitled to additional help and support for care leavers .
You won't be able to get this bursary alongside the Stand Alone Bursary or Young Carer Bursary.
You could get this bursary of £1,000 a year if you're a full-time undergraduate UK student aged under 25 and estranged from your parents.
It isn't based on your income.
Contact independent@port.ac.uk to find out if you’re eligible for this bursary.
If you're eligible, we'll tell you how to apply.
You won't be able to get this bursary alongside the Care Leaver Bursary or the Young Carer Bursary.
You could get this bursary of £500 a year if all the following apply:
Contact independent@port.ac.uk to apply for this bursary.
You won't be able to get this bursary alongside the Care Leaver Bursary or the Stand Alone Bursary.
This scholarship is awarded by the Unite Foundation and gives statutory Care Leavers or estranged students a free place in a Unite hall of residence for a maximum of 3 years.
There are a limited number of these scholarships, so not everyone who's eligible will be successful.
You can get this scholarship alongside the Stand Alone Bursary or Care Leavers Bursary.
How to apply for the Unite Scholarship
Applications for 2025/26 are now open.
The deadline for applications is 13 June 2025 at 23:59.
Full details, including eligibility criteria and the application, are available online from the Unite Foundation .
Please contact the Student Finance Centre for more information.
Restrictions
You won't be able to get this scholarship on foundation, repeat or placement years
London UoP students should contact the Student Finance Centre at the Portsmouth campus for advice about eligibility.
The Sport Scholarship programme supports talented athletes to reach both their sporting and academic potential whilst they are at University.
If you're competing at a regional, national, or international level in your sport, you may be eligible to apply.
The programme is open to all students, irrespective of nationality, year of study or academic course.
Around 20 talented student athletes are awarded a scholar package each year, worth between £2,000 and £6,000.
Including strength and conditioning sessions, physio, sports massage, lifestyle and academic support.
Not available to students at UoP London.
Applications open in January each year and are awarded at the start of the academic year in September.
Apply now
For more details visit our sports pages .
From September 2020, new and continuing students on eligible nursing and allied health professional courses can get access funding from the extended NHS Learning Support Fund.
The funding is non-repayable and is in addition to any other support you are eligible for, including Government student loans .
The extended support package includes:
(Part-time students receive pro rata payments.)
You can get this bursary if you're eligible for funding from SFE, SFNI, SFW or SAAS and are studying an eligible course in England.
Eligible courses at the University of Portsmouth include:
From September 2025, new and continuing students on Pharmacy MPharm (Hons) can access the travel expenses and dual accommodation allowance part of the NHS Learning Support Fund providing they meet the eligibility of the Student Loans Company and ordinarily reside in the UK.
Students will need to apply for the fund in the usual way.
More information can be found on the Government website .
The NHS Health Careers website has more information on eligibility criteria.
If you want confirmation of your eligibility or any additional information, please contact the Student Finance Centre .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/estee-lauder-companies-whitman-scholarship:
£3,000 a year towards your time at university plus work experience opportunities in Petersfield, Hampshire
If you live in Portsmouth or on the Isle of Wight, you are the first in your family to progress to higher education, and have a household income of less than £35,000, the Estée Lauder Companies’ Whitman Laboratories x UoP Scholarship could benefit your future!
This scholarship is awarded by The Estée Lauder Companies’ Whitman Laboratories to advance supply chain education and employment opportunities for students in the local community.
It provides £3,000 a year towards your time at university, as well as the opportunity to gain work experience at the Whitman manufacturing site in Petersfield, Hampshire.
You can apply for this scholarship if you:
The scholarship is not open to international students.
See our terms and conditions for full eligibility criteria.
You'll need to complete a brief application form to demonstrate how studying at the University of Portsmouth and being awarded this scholarship will make a difference to your future and why your situation merits the additional financial support.
Submit your application by midnight on Sunday 20 July 2025.
Apply for the Estée Lauder Companies - Whitman Scholarship
There is one scholarship available each year for one University of Portsmouth student from the Faculty of Technology.
You'll need to meet the criteria and grade requirements for your chosen course in order to receive the scholarship.
The scholarship panel’s decision on the allocation of the scholarship is in accordance with the terms and conditions, and is final.
There is no appeals process.
Whitman Laboratories is one of The Estée Lauder Companies’ (ELC) manufacturing sites outside of the US, located in the Southeast of England.
As a team, we manufacture around a fifth of ELC’s global sales output.
We have had a manufacturing presence in the UK since 1969, and we have operated from the current site since 1982.
Principally a manufacturer of prestige skin care products, Whitman consistently strives to,  exceed quality, productivity, and safety targets year after year.
Estée Lauder Companies is an equal opportunities employer.
We positively encourage applications from suitably qualified and eligible candidates regardless of sex, race, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, religion or belief, marital status or pregnancy and maternity.
The Estée Lauder Companies - Whitman Scholarship is a financial scholarship of £3,000 in one academic year as part of a full-time undergraduate taught-level study in 2025/26.
It is available to students who are current students of the University of Portsmouth in 2025.
The following terms and conditions apply to the scholarship:
The financial scholarship is a £3,000 contribution fee payable in one academic year.
It is open to students who meet all of the following criteria:
And meet either of these criteria:
There is one scholarship available, so student eligibility does not guarantee that a student will receive the award.
Students will need to apply for the scholarship and successful applicants will be selected by a scholarship panel.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/nhs-learning-support-fund:
Students on certain pre-registration courses are eligible for between £5,000-£8,000
The NHS Learning Support Fund offers students access to non-repayable financial support of between £5,000-£8,000.
The fund is open to students on certain pre-registration courses, and can supplement your existing funding, and you won't have to pay the support back.
Find out more about the fund below – from who qualifies for the new funding, to how you'll receive your money if your application is successful.
Applying to the fund won't affect any other funding you're entitled to, such as maintenance loans, disabled student allowances and University bursaries.
The fund isn't means-tested, you won't need to pay back any money you receive, and it's open to both full-time and part-time students, who'll receive pro rata payments.
All students will receive their funding in 3 instalments, phased over the academic year.
To qualify for the extra support you'll need to be:
Students on the following courses could be eligible for funding from the NHS Learning Support Fund:
Students should apply through the NHS Business Services Authority, not their national funding body.
If you're applying for support, you'll need to have an account.
Don't apply on any other system, as your application will be rejected.
For full details of the NHS Learning Support Fund – including full eligibility criteria – please visit the NHS BSA website .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/portsmouth-football-club-partnership-scholarship:
£9,000 to help you make your mark when you join us for your studies
If you live in Portsmouth or on the Isle of Wight and are either the first in your family to progress to higher education or have a household income of less than £35,000, the Portsmouth Football Club Partnership Scholarship could benefit your future.
This scholarship is awarded by Portsmouth Football Club to inspire and support local young people to achieve.
It provides £3,000 a year towards your time at university well as the opportunity to gain work experience at the football club.
Past recipients of the scholarship have worked with the football club to redesign parts of Fratton Park and worked on graphic design projects within the marketing team.
You could get this scholarship if you:
Online applications for September 2025 entry will open in spring 2025.
There is one scholarship available for University of Portsmouth students each year.
The scholarship panel’s decision on the allocation of the scholarship is in accordance with the terms and conditions and is final.
The scholar can request the £3,000 each year to contribute to their own running costs at university.
If no preference chosen, the default will be £3,000 deducted from your tuition fee annually in your first 3 years of study (excluding placement or study abroad years).
You'll be able to receive this scholarship in addition to other University of Portsmouth scholarships or bursaries that you're eligible for.
Maddie Long has been named as the third recipient of the scholarship.
Maddie is from Bognor Regis and is living in Portsmouth for her studies.
She started her BSc (Hons) Sports, Health and Exercise Sciences (Dual Degree) degree with the University in September 2023.
She'll be spending her time with the club based at the training ground at Pompey Health and Fitness.
This will initially involve shadowing the club’s sport science team but with plans to develop her experience with the club alongside her studies.
The scholarship looks to help local students through university with both financial support and invaluable work experience with the club.
Maddie
I've always wanted a scholarship and I thought, “why not apply?” I never thought that I'd get it.
Why would they choose little old me?
Then, I got a call and then I was shaking a little bit, I just found out I've got a scholarship.
Richard
The scholarship is huge.
Providing this opportunity for students to get the funding to do their passion, but also the opportunities that we're able to provide as a football club is great.
I'm doing the Sport, Health and Exercise Science dual-degree.
I would like to gain experience in the field of sport therapy, physiotherapy and rehabilitation.
She's going to get exposure to a couple of great professionals who's going to help her and help her development and I think she'll just get time to be in an environment to see what it looks like in a professional football club, which I'm sure and I'm really hopeful, it'll be really useful for her as she progresses through her career.
I'm hoping that it helps me into a future career within football.
I want to help people and they can help me help people.
The partnership with the club and the University of Portsmouth is massive for us.
The access that their students get and the links that we get in between are really important.
The funding and the access is huge for them.
The money, at the moment, is going towards my accommodation and that allows me to be able to fund myself because I don't have the option of getting financial support from my parents, so it takes that stress not only off of me, but my family as well.
Anyone thinking of applying for a scholarship should know that it's not just based on academia.
I'm quite an academic person, but I feel as though if you actually really strive to want it, you're confident and you just apply, there's no harm in doing it.
I didn't think I was going to get it and now I'm standing in Portsmouth Training Ground
By sponsoring Portsmouth Football Club, we're raising awareness of higher education with local football fans.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/sanctuary-scholarship:
Plus ongoing support
If you're seeking asylum and studying for an undergraduate (Bachelor's) degree, you could get a Sanctuary Scholarship to cover all of your undergraduate tuition fees.
You'll also get ongoing personal and financial support during your course so you can concentrate on your studies
There's usually one Sanctuary Scholarship available each year.
However, we have currently awarded the maximum number of scholarships that we can award at any one time.
This means that whether we award a Sanctuary Scholarship for 2025/26 is dependent on one or more of our current scholars' immigration status changing between now and the summer of 2025.
Therefore, while we are provisionally accepting applications for 2025/26, please be aware that we might not be in a position to award another Sanctuary Scholarship in 2025.
If you apply, we will inform you by the end of June 2025 whether a scholarship is to be awarded in the next academic year and whether your application has been successful.
In the meantime, you are welcome to also apply for similar scholarships at other universities to maximise your chances of success.
You'll also get personal support to help identify and overcome barriers to achievement on your course.
To be considered for the Sanctuary Scholarship, at least one of the following must apply:
Spouses/civil partners must have been your spouse/civil partner on the date they made an asylum application.
If you're a dependant of someone, you must have been aged under 18 on the date they made an asylum application.
You must also:
See terms and conditions for full eligibility criteria.
To apply, you must hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study an undergraduate degree starting in September 2025.
Details on how to apply for courses are on all course pages .
You'll need to complete a brief application to demonstrate how studying at the University of Portsmouth and being awarded this scholarship will prepare you for your future.
Once you hold an offer to study with us, email sanctuary@port.ac.uk to ask for a Sanctuary Scholarship application form.
When you send your completed application form, you'll also need to include:
The deadline for 2025 Sanctuary Scholarship applications is 5pm on 30 April 2025
We'll let you know if your application is successful by the end of June 2025
You must let us know if you (or your parents or spouse/civil partner) are granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK as a result of an asylum application.
If this happens, your scholarship will end at the start of the next academic year.
You'll then be classed as a home (UK) student and be eligible for UK Government financial support such as a student loan .
You may also be eligible for our Sanctuary Language Bursary and other UK student bursaries and scholarships.
See our scholarships and bursaries page for more details of what's available to home (UK) students.
Or contact us by email at studentfinance@port.ac.uk or by phone on +44 (0) 2392 843014 .
The Star Network has details of scholarships and bursaries available at other universities for people seeking sanctuary.
+44 (0)23 9284 3072
sanctuary@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/sanctuary-language-bursary:
Find out what you get and how to apply
If you're seeking asylum in the UK or have official refugee status and you need to improve your English language skills before you study with us, you could get a free place on a pre-sessional English course with our Sanctuary Language Bursary.
There are 2 bursaries available each year.
To be considered for the Sanctuary Language Bursary, at least one of the following must apply:
To apply for the Sanctuary Language Bursary:
Please email us at least four weeks before the start of your programme.
We consider applications on a first-come, first-served basis, so contact us as soon as possible.
You won't need to pay back the bursary if your circumstances change – for example, if you (or your parents or spouse/civil partner) are granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK as a result of an asylum application.
You may also be eligible for our Sanctuary Scholarship and other bursaries and scholarships .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/financial-support-for-students-with-dependants:
Supporting children and dependent adults while you study
If you have children or support a dependent adult, you could get extra financial support while you study.
Take a look at the summary below.
If you’d like us to put together a financial statement of the support available to you, contact our Student Finance Centre .
If you’re a full-time student from England and have a dependent child or adult, you could get the following extra funding on top of a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan.
The Parents’ Learning Allowance is a payment of up to £1,963 a year for students with dependent children.
It’s based on your household income.
You don’t have to pay it back and it won’t affect your benefits or tax credits.
The Adult Dependants’ Grant is a payment of up to £3,438 a year for students who support a dependent adult who has no income of their own.
It's based on your household income and you don’t have to pay it back.
The Childcare Grant is a payment that covers up to 85% of your childcare costs.
It’s based on your household income and childcare costs.
You don’t have to pay it back.
If eligible, you can get up to:
You can apply for the Parent’s Learning Allowance, Adult Dependants’ Grant and Childcare Grant at the same time you apply for your tuition fee and maintenance loans through Student Finance England.
You can apply for Universal Credit (UC) as a full-time student if at least one of the following applies to you:
To receive support for housing costs, you must be living in rented accommodation and have a formal tenancy agreement in your name.
This includes halls of residence.
Support for those with a mortgage is not covered.
Applications can be made online .
Universal Credit applications are administered by the Department for Work & Pensions and have replaced the support that was previously available via Tax Credits and Housing Benefit.
If you have any queries regarding eligibility whilst attending a course please contact the Student Finance Centre .
Becoming a student doesn’t affect your entitlement to Child Benefit.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/financial-support-for-disabled-students:
Cover any extra study costs relating to a disability
If you have a disability, mental health issue or long-term illness, you can apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) to cover the extra study costs relating to your disability.
For example, you can use it to help with:
To apply for DSA, you need to be a UK student studying an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
If you’re studying part-time, you need to be studying the equivalent of 25% of a full-time course (for example, 30 credits a year on an undergraduate Bachelor’s degree course).
The amount you get is based on your needs, not your income.
It doesn’t cover costs that aren’t related to your study.
A single Disabled Students’ Allowance of up to £27,783 is available for eligible new and continuing full-time and part-time undergraduate and postgraduate students.
This replaces the four DSA sub-allowances previously available.
An exception for travel costs will be made to this maximum cap, which means that travel costs will, in effect, be uncapped.
You can apply for DSA as part of your application when you apply for student finance through Student Finance England.
If you’re not applying for student finance, you can ask for a paper application form .
It can take up to 3 months to process your application and arrange for an assessment, so apply as soon as you can.
You can also get help and support from our Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre (ASDAC), which can offer advice and help with your DSA application.
The ASDAC team supports all students who have a condition which may impact their ability to access our campus, curriculum, teaching, learning, assessments and any other student-focused service.
The services and support ASDAC offers include:
To contact the ASDAC team, email asdac@port.ac.uk or call +44 (0)23 9284 3462.
Get a digital copy of our undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus now.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-fees-and-student-finance/undergraduate-student-finance-eligibility:
See the factors that affect whether you qualify for student finance
Qualifying for student finance (such as student loans, bursaries and scholarships) depends on factors such as your age, where you live, your household income and your personal circumstances.
Here's some of the eligibility criteria.
You need to be a 'Home (UK)' student to apply for many types of funding.
You also need to be 'ordinarily resident' in England.
This means you normally live in England, but it doesn’t matter if you occasionally leave England temporarily.
To be classed as a Home (UK) student you must be one of the following:
You may also be classed as a Home (UK) student if you:
Explore your options in our funding for international students section .
You need to meet residency requirements for student finance before 1 September in the year you start your course.
You can't become eligible during your course, even if you meet residency requirements in that time.
Most people can get student finance for the length of their undergraduate course, plus an extra year to cover retakes and transfers.
This means you might not be eligible for student finance for some or all your course if you've studied on an undergraduate course before but didn't finish it.
How many years you can get support for is calculated as follows:
For instance, if your course is for 3 years and you decided to leave a previous undergraduate course during your first year, you'd be entitled to 3 years of student finance for your new course.
These restrictions don't apply to Government maintenance loans.
You usually can't get finance from Student Finance England if you already have an honours degree.
But you may still qualify if you're doing a healthcare course that leads to registration as an NHS professional or if you're topping up a Foundation degree, HNC or HND to an honours degree.
You may still be eligible for the University of Portsmouth Bursary if you're doing a second undergraduate degree.
To qualify for a Government maintenance loan, you must be under 60 on 1 September in the year you start your course.
If you're over 60, reduced means-tested loans are available.
There's no upper age limit for Government tuition fee loans.
There are age restrictions on some of our University bursaries and scholarships.
Some elements of student finance are assessed on your household income.
If you're under 25, you'll normally be assessed on your parents’ income.
If your parents are separated, you'll be assessed on the income of the parent you live with (and their partner if they also live with you).
If any of the following apply to you, you'll be considered independent of your parents and only assessed on your household income if you live with a partner:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/order-a-digital-prospectus:
Get your digital prospectus today
There are plenty of great reasons to choose Portsmouth, and they're all in our undergraduate prospectus.
Inside its pages, you'll find all you need to know about our undergraduate courses , about student life in Portsmouth , and much more besides.
Fill in the form below to view our interactive digital undergraduate prospectus.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters:
Help them prepare for life at university
University is an opportunity for your child to be independent, but it’s only natural to want to support them – even if they don’t tell you they need your help.
Explore our advice pages or sign up for extra support below to discover how to help your child through the university application process and prepare them for their studies.
Access our resources to support them.
From updates around the UCAS process and personal statement support to finance webinars and Clearing advice.
Sign up now
Does your child need extra Clearing support?
We're here to help.
Read our advice for parents and supporters on topics including how to apply, our tips for parents and more.
Get advice
Deciding which path to take can be tough and as a parent or supporter, we understand you'll want to help your child explore their choices.
Read our advice below to find out how you can support them.
Discover what makes the University of Portsmouth great and why your child should choose us.
From understanding the UCAS process and personal statements to applying and next steps.
We've got you covered.
Learn how to help your child prepare for university with our expert advice on topics like student finance, budgeting and accommodation.
Discover how to help your child navigate university life and settle into their studies.
Parents and supporters can join our interactive webinar series on topics from writing a great personal statement, to completing a UCAS application, to the different ways they’ll learn at university – and more.
View upcoming webinars

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/how-to-afford-to-get-your-child-through-university:
Explore our tips on how you can support your child with their finances
From tuition fees and textbooks to food and rent, when it comes to university, you might be thinking about how you and your child can afford the costs.
In our advice below, we give you valuable insights on how to support your child with their finances – from university budgeting tips and student finance guidance to discounts and scholarships.
Stay in touch and get the latest updates on how you can support your child through university.
Before your child applies to university, it’s important to consider how much university costs and whether you’ll need to support them in funding their studies.
You can usually find out exactly what needs to be covered and get tuition fees online, via the university website.
In the UK for 2024/25, most undergraduate degrees cost up to £9,250 a year, and as parents and supporters, you won’t usually need to cover this fee.
Your child will typically cover their tuition fees through Student Finance England , by applying for a loan.
When your child is looking at courses at Portsmouth, they'll find our courses list the tuition fees for UK, EU and International students, including any additional costs your child may need to consider during their studies, such as textbooks and other course materials.
Have questions?
Discover our student finance guide for parents and supporters to find out the terms of tuition fee loans and how to apply.
As well as tuition fees, your child will need to plan for additional costs like accommodation, travel and social costs.
And we know you’ll want to help your child prepare for these costs as best you can.
Explore our breakdown of living costs with your child, from bills and rent, to food shopping and travel, so you know exactly what needs to be covered.
Your child could apply for a maintenance loan or a grant, scholarship, bursary to help fund these costs.
Support your child in contacting our university’s student finance team or read our maintenance loan guide to see what’s on offer.
Get in touch with our finance team
Explore our maintenance loan guide
I budget for my most essential things before considering the non essential.
For example money for rent, bills, food and transport I set aside in one of my savings account.
For the non essentials, I set a limit for takeaways, ubers, meals out, shopping and other expenses.
Molly Mitchell, University of Portsmouth student
Once you both know what your child needs to budget for, consider taking some time with them to help calculate and build a budget.
Your child could also speak to someone they know at university, to get an idea of potential expenses.
There are many uni budgeting tips your child can use to help cover these living costs, such as creating a weekly budget, setting spending limits or breaking down essential and non-essential costs.
Despite Portsmouth being one of the most affordable cities in the UK for students, it's still worth taking the time to put together a budget.
Creating a budget and tracking spending can help you afford to get your child through university .
But discussing how to make money go further can make a big difference.
Encourage your child to research places and organisations that offer student discounts to reduce their monthly expenses, whether it's money off their food shop, travel or nights out.
Attending uni is a big step for you and your child – with lots to consider, so it’s normal to have worries — including financial concerns.
Most UK universities have a student finance team on hand to give expert financial advice and help you and your child with your money-related worries.
They can help you with a variety of concerns, such as:
At Portsmouth, our student finance team is available all year round to support you and your child, and are on hand to answer questions before or during your child’s time here.
I set myself a weekly budget and track how much I spend.
Whenever I go out, I set a limit for myself to make sure I don't spend all my money.
I do shops in bulk with my friends and we often cook together which also helps to bring down cost.
Harriet Odhiambo, University of Portsmouth student
Get the latest updates on how you can support your child through university.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/how-to-help-your-child-choose-a-university-and-course:
Explore our tips on how to support your child in making the right choice for them
Helping your child choose the right university and course can be an exciting time – but with lots to consider, and as a parent or supporter, you’ll want to support them throughout their journey.
In this guide, you’ll get valuable insights and tips on how to support your child in making informed decisions about university.
From understanding their interests to setting career goals, we've got you covered.
Explore your child’s interests
How to pick a university
Discover the different types of degrees
How to choose a university course
Choosing the right university and course is a big decision that can shape your child's future, but with so many options, courses and careers to consider, it's not always a straightforward decision.
Here's our advice on how to approach it:
Choosing a subject your child is passionate about will help them stay motivated during their studies and apply for jobs they will enjoy once they graduate.
To better understand their interests, have an open chat with your child about their passions and career aspirations by encouraging them to identify subjects that genuinely excite them.
It’s important to take the time to discuss with your child what they are good at and what they like about a subject before choosing a university or course.
You and your child may find it easier to research career options online if they do not have a specific subject in mind, and discuss how specific subjects and degrees may lead to careers that match their interests.
Your child could also talk to teachers, career advisers, and professionals in relevant fields for insights and advice.
Here are some conversation starters to get you started:
Contact our Taster Day team to help your child find a subject that suits them.
As a parent or supporter, you’ll want to help your child pick a university that’s right for them.
To support them, you and your child should research universities that offer degrees related to their interests while considering factors like:
Open days are a great way for your child to learn more about a university and see if it’s right for them.
Book onto an open day so you and your child can explore university life and get a feel for the courses they can study, careers to pursue and what it’s like living in a new city.
Universities offer a variety of undergraduate degree options to cater to your child’s interests and learning style.
Here are some common choices:
When it comes to a course, there's more than just the subject to consider.
What your child will learn and how they'll study should be looked at —  so you know your child will be engaged and passionate about their studies.
To support your child in making their decision, help them search online for courses in their chosen subject, to see what’s available.
Review the course curriculum and modules and ensure that it aligns with your child's goals and provides opportunities for practical experience.
To help your child narrow down their choice, explore the following:
Take note of the UCAS code for a course your child likes - they'll need it to apply.
It’s important to take the time to research and understand the entry requirements for your child's chosen course.
Depending on the course, they may need certain qualifications, skills or experience.
You can usually check these online, via the university website.
At Portsmouth, all of our courses list the entry requirements your child needs to apply with a link to further information.
We also carefully look at your circumstances and other factors to assess your potential.
Browse our courses
Explore how we make an offer
If your child is considering a healthcare course, they’ll need to complete confidential occupational health and disclosure and barring service checks .
Whatever your child decides to study, you’ll want to help them explore the career opportunities and industry connections related to their course.
This could include:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/open-day-guide-for-parents-and-supporters:
Support your child as they explore university and beyond
Choosing to go to university is an exciting time for young people.
It’s the start of a new chapter, the first step towards their chosen career, and — if they’re moving away from home — might be one of the biggest transitions in their life so far.
To help your child make the best choice on which universities to apply to, courses to study, or careers to pursue, most run open days.
This guide will help you understand how to get the most out of an open day and how best to support a young person as they explore university and beyond.
Open days help students explore which university and course is right for them.
They’re the perfect opportunity to look at learning spaces, labs, libraries, and facilities.
Staff will be on hand to run regular talks and tours on showcase courses, and there’ll be plenty of opportunities to ask questions and hear from current students.
They’re also an important part of getting a feel for student life.
You and your child will be able to tour the university campus, accommodation, and social spaces — and there’s no better way of getting to know what it would be like to live there.
Importantly, they’re also a chance to understand the support networks and services that the university offers, so you’ll know your child will be well looked after during their time there.
Your child can attend an open day on their own, or with friends.
But there’s so much you’ll get out of attending.
From finding out more about the place your child will be living and studying, to feeling confident there’s the right help and support available.
Exploring a new place can be exciting, but sometimes overwhelming.
You’ll be on hand to guide your child in asking the right questions, help find their way to the next tour or session, and be there to support them.
Choosing university is an important next step for your child, and going with them to an open day helps you be a part of their journey.
Taking the time to prepare for the open day gives you the best chance of covering everything and getting the most out of the day.
If you’re visiting Portsmouth for one of our open days, we’ll send you an open day guide in advance, so you can plan your day.
If you’re not a local, why not make a weekend of it?
There’s no better way to get a sense of the city than to stay.
Portsmouth is packed with things to do after the open day.
Explore Southsea seafront, take in the sights from the Spinnaker Tower, or debrief over dinner at Gunwharf Quays.
Take advantage of public transport schemes, such as park and rides or university buses, to avoid the stress of finding a car parking space when you arrive.
You’ll find loads of information about how to get to the University of Portsmouth, public transport, and car parking, in your open day guide.
Take the time to sit down with your child and discuss their interests.
Make a plan of the key sessions and facilities related to courses they might want to study and encourage them to explore the facilities, social spaces, and accommodation.
Then, put together a list of questions you’d both like answered by the end of the day.
You can usually find a lot of information in advance on the university website.
But it’s worth having a list to make sure you’ve covered everything.
What makes this university perfect for studying your child’s chosen course?
What equipment, labs, facilities or tools are available?
What careers can graduates expect to pursue?
What sort of modules and topics are covered?
What are the various halls of residence like?
How far from the university buildings are they?
If you’re checking out Portsmouth at an open day, take a look at our halls in advance, to narrow down your search.
University is a great place to take hobbies and interests to the next level, or try out new ones.
If your child is into sport and fitness, check out the sports clubs and facilities.
What’s the city like to live in?
What is student life like?
How far away is accommodation from university buildings and social spaces?
How expensive is it to live there?
What sort of pastoral or counselling is available?
What assistance can your child get if they’re struggling?
How does the university support its students?
How does student finance work?
What sort of financial support can your child expect to receive?
It's worth getting a good idea of how student finance works in advance, so you can ask the right questions about your situation.
Factor in time to get between university buildings and around campus.
In your plan, roughly schedule your time.
And on the day, be sure to ask staff how long it takes to walk from place to place to give yourself plenty of time.
Open days can be tiring.
Include breaks to grab a drink or a bite.
That’s also a great way to check out local places to eat.
While it’s fresh in your mind, talk with your child about the open day.
Go through the questions you’d prepared in advance and talk about the pros and cons.
If you still have questions or more you want to know, reach out to the university admissions office.
If your child has a good feeling about a particular university, encourage them to take the next step in applying.
We’d love to welcome you and your child to an upcoming open day at Portsmouth.
Book an open day

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/parents-guide-to-student-finance:
A parent’s guide to tuition fees, maintenance loans and financial support
Exploring university is an exciting time for you and your child, or someone you’re supporting.
But a common question is ‘How much does university cost parents?’
Usually, your child’s tuition fee (the cost of their course) is covered by a loan that only has to be repaid once they’re earning enough.
And they’ll also be able to apply for a maintenance loan (to cover living costs) with an amount based on your household income.
Your child could also apply for grants and bursaries, and there’s extra help if they have children or adult dependents, a disability, health condition, or a specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia.
We also offer a number of scholarships , so it’s worth checking if your child is eligible to apply.
In this student finance guide for parents, we’ll explore the two main expenses—tuition fees and living costs—and how to apply for student finance to help cover the cost of your child going to uni
Sign up
A tuition fee is what the university charges to teach your child’s chosen course.
Your child can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan to cover the full cost.
Typically, you won’t have to pay anything upfront.
The maximum loan amount is £9,250 per year, and it's available to all eligible students, irrespective of their household income.
Importantly, this loan doesn't need to be repaid until your child has completed or left their course and their income surpasses the repayment threshold.
For most students applying to start studying this year, they’ll only start repaying their tuition fee loan when their income is over £480 a week, or £2,083 a month.
The amount they’ll repay depends on their income – which is calculated at 9% of any income over the threshold.
Portsmouth is one of the most affordable cities in the UK for students (2023, University Living), but it’s still important to consider how your child will pay for things like accommodation, food, study supplies, and a social life.
Alongside a Tuition Fee Loan, all students can apply for a Maintenance Loan to help cover the cost of living and studying, whether away from home or living with you.
How much your child will get is based on a number of factors - most notably, your household income and whether your child will be living at home while they’re studying.
Household income
Living away from home (outside of London)
Living with parents
£25,000
£10,544
£8,877
£9,791
£8,132
£9,038
£7,387
£8,285
£6,642
£42,875
£7,852
£6,214
£7,532
£5,897
*Information provided by Student finance: how you're assessed and paid 2025 to 2026 - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
There is student finance help for parents with specific circumstances, if your child has a disability, long-term health condition, mental health condition, or responsibilities for children or adult dependents.
The application process for student finance is relatively straightforward and can be done online.
Importantly, your child does not need a confirmed place at university or college to apply.
It’s a good idea to apply early to ensure everything is in place before the course commences.
The deadline for applications is typically in May, but early submissions help ensure there are no delays.
If they’re from England, your child will apply for their student loan on the Student Finance England website.
If they’re from Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, they’ll apply through their home government:
For all the information on how to apply – and when to apply by – take a look at our Student Loans Guide
TOP TIP: Take the time to look into the application process in advance.
While it’s straightforward, there are a few steps to follow, accounts to sign up for, and information to gather.
Knowing what you need in advance will help you prepare to support your child’s student finance application when the time comes.
When your child is applying for student finance, you might be asked about your household income.
This is used to work out if they can get extra money on top of the Tuition Fee Loan and basic rate Maintenance Loan.
If you don’t, they’ll only get the minimum amount they’re entitled to - so it’s worth doing.
You’ll be asked for your National Insurance number.
This will be used by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) to get information about your income.
You’ll also need to say if you have paid into any private pensions, made voluntary contributions or have any other child dependants.
If you don’t have a National Insurance number, you’ll be able to complete a form and provide evidence to show how much you earned.
Discover effective ways to support your child as they embark on their university journey.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/preparing-your-child-for-university:
From understanding student loans and applications, to their first day
Moving from school or college to university is a big change – and you'll want to support your child every step of the way.
After all, the step up from school or college to university is a big one, especially if they move away from home.
And it can be overwhelming – from creating an outstanding Personal Statement and application and the nail-biting wait until results day, to remembering everything they need to start uni.
While you probably don’t want to do everything for them, you can play a vital role in guiding them.
So, where do you begin?
This guide covers everything you need to know to prepare your child for university.
We’ve presented it as a timeline, starting when your child is in Year 11, so you know what you need to think about and when.
When your child is 15 or 16, it might feel too early to think about university.
But, this is when they decide what to do after their GCSEs.
And, while many university courses are flexible about what qualifications your child needs, others need them to take specific awards or subjects.
So the decisions they make in Year 11 could impact what they study at university.
A useful approach is for them to choose subjects they’re good at and enjoy studying.
This will likely lead them on to a university course that suits them.
They could also take a look at university websites or the UCAS course listings to find degree courses that interest them.
Then check the entry requirements to see what qualifications and subjects they need and what careers each course could lead to.
Teachers and school or college career advisors are a valuable source of advice too.
Above all, don’t let them worry about making the perfect decision – they won’t choose a university course for at least 2 years and a lot could change in that time.
At this stage, it’s also useful for you and your child to familiarise yourselves with the application process , tuitions fees , and student loans , and other sources of student finance so you know what to expect.
Once your child has settled into sixth form or college, it’s a good time for them to think about university courses again so they still have plenty of time to research their next steps.
Again, the UCAS website and university websites are a good starting point.
Your child can also go to a UCAS Exhibition or UK University Search Fair, where they get to speak to admissions and teaching staff from Higher Education providers from across the country and explore their courses.
They can get an idea of what grades they need to achieve and what extracurricular activities will help their application stand out from other students.
Your child’s school or college will likely organise a trip to your nearest event.
If not, you can find events and register on the UCAS and UK University Search websites.
When you research courses, you’ll see that undergraduate courses come with different awards – for example BA, BSc, HND, LLM – based on the subject and amount of credits your child can study on the course.
See our awards explained page for guidance on the different awards and qualifications your child can choose at university.
When your child applies for a Bachelor’s degree or other undergraduate courses, they need to check they’ll meet the entry requirements.
You’ll see entry requirements for our courses on each course page .
We use the UCAS Tariff point system to show entry requirements for most of our undergraduate courses.
This assigns points to qualifications students can study after the age of 16.
The higher the grade, the more points your child gets.
Find out more about entry requirements and the UCAS Tariff point system on our entry requirements page .
By now, you and your child probably have a shortlist of universities to visit.
The best way to see them is on an open day, which most universities hold from June to December.
University open days usually follow a similar format.
On our Open Days , you can speak with lecturers and current students and tour course facilities, the city , the campus and halls of residence .
Your child can also get information on how to fund their studies , how to apply and what personal and learning support is available when they join us.
Plus, how we can help them prepare for a successful career after their course.
Now is also a good time for your child to start planning their Personal Statement so they have plenty of time to create a statement to wow potential universities.
The Personal Statement is the part of their application where they show their chosen universities why they'll make a great student.
It also helps them think about their choice of course and their reasons for applying, so they know they’ve made the right decision.
For expert advice and feedback on their Personal Statement, your child can come to a Personal Statement Workshop on one of our Open Days .
When they plan their Personal Statement, they may want to think about how they can develop their skills further by volunteering or getting work experience.
Even a part-time job will help them build skills in areas such as time management, team working and communication.
This enhances their CV and gives them examples to highlight in their Personal Statement.
Your child can submit their UCAS application from September in the year before they start their course, but most students aim to submit it nearer the UCAS deadline.
This is usually late January (or mid-October for some courses in medicine and all courses at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge).
If your child’s school or college is submitting their application for them, they may have to finish their application slightly earlier to give their school or college time to add a reference.
They can still submit their application after the UCAS deadline, but they could miss out on their chosen course because it could fill up or the entry requirements could change.
Submitting their application by these dates also ensures they get a decision from all universities more quickly, which means they can focus on doing their best in their exams.
The most difficult bit of their application is the Personal Statement , which by now they’ve hopefully been planning for a few months.
You can support them with their Personal Statement by giving them feedback and helping check their final version before they submit it.
You can also encourage them to get help from their school or college.
Your child can apply for student finance up to 9 months before the start of their course – they don’t need to wait until they have offers.
It’s best to have everything completed as soon as possible so there’s no delay in receiving funding when they start.
Some universities will get back to your child with a decision on their application quickly, while others will take a few months.
It all depends on the university and the course.
If your child applied by the January deadline, universities must let them know whether they’re offering them a place by early May.
When your child applies to join us, we aim to update them on their application within two weeks.
If we offer them a place, we invite them to an Applicant Experience Day where they take part in taster lectures and meet staff and their potential classmates.
We also send them details of how to apply for a room in halls.
We guarantee a room in halls to all new, full-time undergraduate students who make us their first-choice university.
Once they’ve got a decision on all the courses they applied for, there’s no need to rush to choose which offers to accept – they get at least a month to decide.
Our accepting an offer page explains the different types of offer and how to accept or decline them.
If your child didn’t use all five choices on their UCAS application, they can apply for more courses through UCAS until around the end of June.
If they used all five choices, they might be able to apply for more courses using UCAS Extra .
This usually starts at the end of February and runs until July.
Remember, your child will likely be preparing for and taking their exams while all this is going on.
They may feel overwhelmed.
To help them, make sure they have somewhere comfortable to revise, free from distractions, and remind them to eat well, get enough sleep and make time for exercise.
Let them know you’re there to support them and encourage them to talk to you about any worries they have.
The quiet period before your child gets their exam results is a good time for them to check with their GP that their vaccinations are up to date.
University students who haven’t been vaccinated have a higher risk of meningitis and mumps than the rest of the population because they have close contact with lots of other students.
Unless your child has an unconditional offer, they need to get their exam results before their chosen university confirms their place.
UCAS usually sends results direct to universities as soon as they’re available.
So your child likely won’t need to notify their chosen universities of their results.
It’s probably best for your child to be in the country on the day they get their exam results, especially if they’re worried they might not have done so well.
That way they can easily speak to universities about their results if they need to.
We know it’s disappointing if your child doesn’t get the results they needed for their first-choice or insurance course.
But try not to worry as their chosen university may still be able to accept them.
If not, they can find a course in Clearing , which gives your child another opportunity to find the best course and university for them.
Clearing opens in July but your child can’t apply for another course until their results are confirmed in mid-August.
You can support them during Clearing by helping them to research possible course options and get ready to phone universities.
Once your child has confirmed their place at university, it’s time to help them prepare for their arrival.
Our joining the university page highlights everything they need to do before they get here and after they arrive.
You can familiarise yourself with the checklist to make sure they don’t forget anything crucial.
Importantly, we recommend they bring enough money to see them through their first week, just in case their maintenance loan is delayed.
If they’re moving into self-catering accommodation, you might want to make sure they take enough food to cover their first few days as well staple cupboard ingredients that will come in handy, such as cooking oil, seasoning, tinned tomatoes and flour.
When your child leaves home for the first time, it’s natural to experience a mix of emotions.
You might be proud and excited for them, yet sad or worried too.
They probably have mixed feelings too.
Give them a few weeks to settle in before you visit or expect them to come home.
And don’t worry too much if they don’t get back to you straight away when you contact them – they’re likely to be very busy in their first few weeks as they make new friends and get used to university life.
Explore our advice for helping your child settle in to university life.
Read blog
Use the University of Portsmouth Clearing Guide to help your child make the best decisions for them and their future.
Discover why your child should study with us — from the academic support and career prospects they'll have here, to the city they'll call home and how they'll make friends.
14 March 2024
7 mins
Whatever your accommodation needs, we can deliver: from non-/catered facilities to accessible rooms.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/ucas-process-for-parents-and-supporters:
Learn how to support your child with their application
From career planning and applications, to offers and next steps, applying to university is a big step for your child – and as a parent or supporter, we know you’ll want to help them navigate this important step towards their future.
Below, you’ll find the tools needed to support your child throughout their UCAS journey.
To apply to Portsmouth, or other UK universities, your child will need to use a platform called UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) – who manage all UK undergraduate applications.
To submit their application, your child will need the following:
Your child can apply to up to five courses through UCAS.
However, they can only submit one personal statement.
So it needs to cover all their course choices.
Once your child has submitted their application, the admissions team who processes their application will write to your child and let them know when they have made their decision.
There are lots of useful things you and your child can do to prepare for their next steps.
Attend an applicant experience day, tour a university's campus, and get some interview preparation done.
As parents and supporters, there are a few details you’ll want to keep in mind during your child’s UCAS journey – including when to apply and how much it’ll cost to submit an application.
Encourage your child to start their application early to ensure they have enough time to gather materials, write their personal statement , and request references.
Before applying , you’ll want to consider some important details, including entry requirements and career ideas.
For 2025 entry, the UCAS application fee is £28.50 for up to five choices.
Check the latest dates on UCAS
Check the latest costs on UCAS
Got questions?
Contact our team
Supporting your child through the UCAS process can be both exciting and rewarding, but we understand this isn’t always easy.
Discover what to consider throughout the process and how to overcome any unexpected challenges.
When submitting applications, you’ll want to help your child consider some important details.
Career planning can be a challenging experience, but by working together, you can help support your child as they explore their options.
It's important to research and understand the entry requirements for the courses your child is interested in.
Some courses may have specific subject or grade requirements, so be sure to guide your child in selecting appropriate options.
All of our courses list the entry requirements your child needs to apply and each course includes a link to further entry requirement details.
Once applications are submitted, your child’s UCAS portal will then turn into UCAS Track.
This is where your child will be notified when a university has made a decision about their application.
Universities will respond with one of the following:
When your child has heard back from their universities, they’ll need to choose a firm and insurance choice.
The first offer will be their firm choice.
This is where your child will go should they get the grades they need.
Their second choice will be their insurance choice.
Your child’s insurance choice should usually have a lower entry requirement than their firm choice.
Your child can hold a maximum of two offers.
Whatever the result, we know you’ll want to be there for your child and support them through their next steps.
Find out what your child needs to do when they get their results .
UCAS Extra is useful if your child has changed their mind since they submitted their UCAS application, didn’t use all their five choices, didn't get the offers they want, or they want to add another application.
Explore UCAS Extra
Not getting the exam results your child expected can be stressful, but don't worry, if your child doesn't receive any offers or meet the conditions of their offers, they can still apply through Clearing.
Clearing is how universities fill any places they have left on courses, and thousands of students apply on results day.
It's important to be prepared because the most popular courses fill-up quickly.
Discover Clearing
If your child wants to take a gap year before starting university, they can apply for deferred entry .
This means they would start their course a year later.
Throughout the UCAS journey, you might encounter unfamiliar terms such as "track," "firm choice" or "insurance choice".
We recommend you bookmark, favourite or save a link to the UCAS glossary so you can understand these terms, as and when they appear throughout the UCAS process.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/parents-guide-to-student-accommodation:
Explore our advice on how to support your child with their uni accommodation
Living away from home for the first time can be an incredibly exciting experience for your child – but it’s also natural for them to feel anxious, and as a parent and supporter, we know you’ll want to support them along the way.
Our parent's guide to student accommodation below offers you valuable advice on supporting your child with their accommodation – from where they'd like to live to where they can find additional support.
When it comes to helping your child find a place to live, there are many things to consider as parents and supporters.
We understand the importance of finding a place where your child feels safe and happy.
There are many accommodation options for students , such as halls of residence, private renting or living at home, but it can be hard to know which option is right for them.
Take the time to discuss these options with your child to help them decide on the type of accommodation they'd like to live in.
You could also visit potential student accommodation options with your child to help them make an informed decision – you can typically do this during a university open day .
Make sure to provide your child with guidance throughout the process, helping them weigh out the pros and cons.
Here are some ways you can provide support and get the conversation started:
Once your child has decided where they’d like to live, it’s important they know the next steps they need to take.
Encourage them to start the application as soon as they can and let them know you’re here to help.
To apply for university accommodation, your child will need to accept their place .
After accepting their place, their chosen university will usually invite them to apply for accommodation and inform them of any key details, accommodation information and deadlines.
They’ll typically have the option to choose between halls of residence or private accommodation and list their preferences.
Once their application has been submitted and reviewed, they’ll be allocated a room.
If they go down the private renting route, they’ll need to secure their own accommodation.
Most universities offer lots of support when it comes to securing private accommodation and adjusting the private sector.
At Portsmouth, we offer an online house hunting resource that offers students a place to search for houses, flats and lodgings across the city registered with Student Housing.
As a parent and supporter, it's natural to want to know your child has support after securing their accommodation.
Whilst at university, your child can usually contact their university housing team and get support with:
If your child is joining Portsmouth, our Res Life is here for them.
They provide welfare support 24 hours a day to first years in halls and the private sector.
Get housing support
Contact the team
Need extra accommodation information ?
Explore our list of frequently asked questions from parents and supporters:
My child applied through Clearing.
Can they still get a place in halls?
Once your child has firmly accepted their place to study here, our student housing team will email them an invite to apply for accommodation.
They'll receive this within 24 hours of accepting their place.
Can they stay in their accommodation over study breaks?
If your child is living in halls, they can stay there for the full academic year, meaning they can leave their belongings if they leave campus for Christmas and Easter break.
They are expected to leave at the end of the entire specified occupancy period (as stated on their accommodation contract).
This typically happens during the summer.
At Portsmouth, university owned halls of residence can be booked over summer by emailing summerbookings@port.ac.uk .
If your child is residing in a Unite Students or Yugo hall of residence, they can book via their hall reception.
You can find out who manages your child’s hall by exploring our halls of residence section .
If your child is renting privately, they’ll need to assess their tenancy agreement to determine their tenancy length and when they need to vacate the property.
Can I discuss their application or account with the Student Housing Team?
Yes – however, due to data protection, your child will need to list you as a third-party contact before we can discuss their application.
You can contact us via student.housing@port.ac.uk .
I want to help pay for student accommodation for my child .
How do I do that?
As a parent and supporter, it’s natural to want to help your child as much as possible.
If your child is living in a university owned hall and you’d like to help pay for your child’s student accommodation, you can do this via either Student View (for full payments) or our Webpay portal (for termly instalments).
For full instructions, read our guide on how to make a payment .
Where can I stay if I want to come and visit?
If your child is living in halls, they can have 1 guest to stay for up to 3 consecutive nights and a maximum of 6 nights in one calendar month.
All overnight guests must be over 18.
If your child is renting in private accommodation, they’ll need to check their tenancy agreement for any restrictions.
Do you offer student accommodation insurance ?
Are their belongings insured?
The University does provide basic student accommodation insurance cover for those living in halls.
However, if your child brings any other items of particular value, such as televisions, computers, hi-fi, or musical instruments, then we strongly advise they take out additional cover.
Private accommodation will not offer any student accommodation insurance cover within the rent, so ensuring your child takes this out is important.
As a parent and supporter, if you have insurance, check whether your child’s belongings are covered under your policy beforehand.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/what-to-do-while-your-child-is-waiting-to-hear-back-from-a-university:
Explore what steps you can take while your child waits for their university offers
Waiting to hear back from a university can be an exciting yet anxious time.
As a parent and supporter, there are plenty of things you can do to help your child stay calm and motivated during the process, so they are prepared for all outcomes and have the resources they need to make informed choices.
Find out how to support them, from understanding and comparing their university offers to preparing for interviews and knowing when to respond.
Use this checklist to help support your child while they wait to hear back from a university.
Once a university has made their decision, they’ll typically respond with a conditional or unconditional offer.
There are often conditions attached to a conditional offer, and even an unconditional offer might require a background check.
Your child can check the conditions of their offer by reviewing the course entry requirements.
They’ll then find out if they’ve met these conditions on results day.
At Portsmouth, all of our courses list the entry requirements your child needs and each course includes a link to further entry requirement details.
Before your child receives their offers, familiarise yourself with them so you know exactly what they mean and can support them in taking their next steps.
Contact our team
After your child submits their application in January, their UCAS hub will turn into UCAS track .
This is where your child can track their application journey and find out when a university has made their decision.
Your child will usually hear back in May and will need to reply within a few weeks by logging into UCAS Track.
Familiarise yourself with the UCAS hub.
Your child’s UCAS hub is a great resource for them throughout their application journey.
They can access a wide range of tools and resources to help them every step of the way and while they wait for their uni offers.
These include searching courses and subjects, virtual notepads, and tariff calculators.
Discover our UCAS application timeline
Once your child receives their offers, they’ll need to choose their firm and insurance choice.
Comparing offers isn’t always easy, as there’s a lot to consider.
But don’t worry if your child’s not sure what to choose, as they’ll have plenty of time to decide.
To support them in this process, encourage them to revisit the course content, considering factors like modules, teaching methods, assessments, and career goals.
They might also want to consider finances, such as tuition fees, additional costs (e.g books and equipment) or any other course related expenses and explore what financial support the university offers.
You and your child could also attend an Open Experience Day to revisit the campus, tour facilities, and learn more about student life before making their final decision.
Create a pros and cons list to help your child break down their decision.
No offers or changed their mind?
Explore their options .
Knowing your child will be supported while at university is important.
If your child has any specific needs, encourage them to reach out to their chosen universities for advice about additional resources they may require, such as disability support, access to wellbeing services or academic help.
Discover how we support our students
A university may invite your child for an interview before deciding whether to accept their application.
Interviews can be daunting, but they are an opportunity for your child to showcase their skills and personality.
While your child waits for their uni offers, prepare them by discussing potential questions and helping them practice their answers.
Make sure they've researched the university and course they are applying for – noting down any questions they may have.
Whatever the outcome, we know you’ll want to be there for your child and support them through their next steps.
Encourage them to consider UCAS Extra or Clearing if they didn’t get the grades and want to continue exploring their place at university.
Alternatively, they could contact their school or college to challenge their result , request to retake their exam or see if their chosen university will still accept them, as they may be offered some flexibility.
Your child can also defer their place if they want more time before delving into student life.
Discover their options
What to do on results day
Not sure which path they want to take?
Explore other routes to a degree with your child if they’re questioning doing a traditional Bachelor’s Degree

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/why-your-child-should-go-to-university:
Find out more about what your child can expect from university and help them decide if a degree is the right choice
Students choose to continue their studies for lots of reasons...
Maybe they know exactly what career they want and need a degree to get there, or maybe they're expanding their horizons before choosing a job.
No matter how much you want to support their decision, sometimes it's hard to believe your child is making the right choice.
Studying at university is a big decision and is different from learning in school or college.
It's normal to worry about your child when they make such big choices but it helps to find out more about university and what they're doing.
We discuss some common concerns and myths below.
Plenty of students have a tough time doing their GCSEs and A levels.
It might feel like university will bring around the same problems.
There are some major differences between studying at school or college and university.
At university your child will study a degree subject that interests them and have more freedom day to day.
They'll control when and how much they study.
This is different from having weekly homework assignments for a range of subjects.
There are lots of opportunities to meet like-minded people at university with plenty of clubs, societies, and more on offer.
Developing these relationships can help students focus and might even help build their career in the future.
Support from friends is also a huge help when moving away from home for the first time.
As well as social support, universities offer professional support for their students including academic support , wellbeing support and careers support .
Although your child may be moving away, they won't be alone at university.
They'll also be allocated a personal tutor when they start studying to support them throughout their degree.
University isn't just about socialising, but it isn't just about studying either.
Your child will have the chance to meet new people, start a new sport hobby, develop skills and improve their job prospects on their degree, and it's up to them to manage their time.
Students don't have to drink to enjoy university.
Learning to manage their time and social commitments is an important part of university which develops skills they'll take forward after they graduate.
If your child is experiencing difficulties they can speak to their personal tutor, who can support them and direct them to other University services if needed.
There is much more to university than alcohol.
Students are expected to attend their lectures and most universities will contact students who miss a certain number of sessions to check in.
Student fees are a common objection to university studies.
With tuition fees for 2025/2026 costing up to £9,535 a year and living expenses that need paying, a degree isn't cheap.
Depending on your income, parents can be expected to pay a contribution towards your child's living costs while they study.
There is no official marker for how big this contribution should be.
Students can apply to Student Finance for loans to cover their tuition fees and living expenses when they apply to university.
Tuition fee loans are paid directly to the university, and maintenance loans are paid to students to contribute to their living costs.
How much loan your child receives depends on your household income.
Your child will start to pay their loans back, with interest, after they've graduated and are earning over a threshold amount.
They won't be expected to pay it back if they're earning less than the threshold.
As well as student loans, most universities offer bursaries to support students.
You can find out more about specific university bursaries online.
Exam stress is tough, and some people struggle more than others.
Most universities offer wellbeing support, exam support, and tips on coping with stress to help students through their exams periods.
Although some courses have a lot of exams, some don't have any.
You can usually find out how a course is assessed on the university's website course pages , or by speaking to staff or students at open days.
If your child particularly struggles with exams they might be able to find a course that has fewer exams or is graded mostly with coursework or practical assessments.
If your child knows what career they want already you can help them plan a path to get there.
Some jobs need a certain level of experience so getting started sooner is helpful.
Degree apprenticeships are a great way to gain industry experience while earning money.
The employer pays tuition fees so the student won't need to pay them back after they graduate.
Depending on what jobs your child is looking at, a degree might support their application even if it isn't necessary.
A lot of jobs that don't require degrees, such as sales, security and city traders, have a high number of graduate applications anyway.
Companies often overlook applicants without a degree as a result.
If your child doesn't know what they want to do yet, that's OK.
Earning a degree will help them develop skills, access work experience and careers advice, and meet new people.
All of these activities will help prepare them for work after university.
Moving away from home is a big deal.
It's hard not to see the dangers in moving to a new city, especially for the first time.
You might worry about your child's general wellbeing if you can't check in on them as often as you're used to, but also their psychological wellbeing.
Universities prioritise their students' safety.
Many unis have safety protocols in place for students on campus and have phone lines, drop in sessions and building security throughout term time.
Staff are always on hand to help.
All students can access our University Wellbeing Service throughout the year, and our Halls of Residence are supported by our Residence Life Team for first year students living away from home.
Some degrees and academic research seem unnecessary to those outside of their field.
For all the research into life-threatening illnesses and new technology, there are also plenty of things that are less obviously useful.
The benefits of doing a degree aren't just what you learn but also the transferable skills gain – such as problem solving, analysis, and creative thinking.
Employers value the discipline of having to think in a structured way and problem solve.
One of the advantages of university in comparison to school or college is that you can focus on one subject that you care about.
Most students choose a degree that they believe they'll enjoy, but no matter how much time your child spends choosing their subject , it can change once they arrive and start studying.
Picking a degree can feels like a big decision so your child might think that they can only choose once, but this isn't always the case.
Most universities support students who want to change their degree subjects in the first few weeks of term.
Changing degrees means your child will need to catch up on any work they've missed so far, but it's better to change courses at the start of their studies than regret the decision later.
Degrees themselves won't guarantee anyone a job, but the opportunities open to your child at university can make a big difference.
As well as supporting your child when they search and apply for jobs, many universities offer industry-specific careers advice and support .
Careers support usually offer CV and interview advice, among other things, and universities often have relationships with local companies the help secure work experience opportunities for their students.
University can be fun, but it isn't for everyone.
If your child decides to end their degree the university will help them do so and support them through the process.
Starting university is hard for a lot of people.
Before they leave, the university may encourage your child to explore the support available at the university.
As well as personal tutor support, most universities offer academic support to help with essays, assignments, and studying, and mental health and wellbeing support if for students struggling with being away from home or anything else.
Find out how to help prepare your child for university , or find out more about life as a student .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/for-parents-and-supporters/how-to-support-your-child-at-university:
Support for students
Starting University is often a time of big change for new students.
Whether it’s moving away from home, managing finances, or cooking meals - often young people can be experiencing many of these for the first time.
It can be worrying if you feel your child is finding aspects of University life difficult - especially if you’re not physically close by to help them out.
However at the University of Portsmouth our students have access to a range of support services that can help them navigate University life, and provide specialist support if needed.
As a parent and supporter, it’s natural to worry about your child – especially when they are living away from home.
There are plenty of things you can do to support your child at university , should they be in distress.
Remind them you are there for them, give them lots of encouragement and keep your communication lines open.
However, if things get difficult for your child to manage, encourage them to reach out to their university support services, where specialist teams are on hand to listen and help.
Most UK universities offer a wide variety of support for students.
From wellbeing and finance services to careers and academic support.
New students will be able to meet the friendly staff behind these services at their university Freshers’ Fayre and other events throughout their time at university.
Services are likely to include:
At Portsmouth, students can contact our teams and reach out for advice and support at any time.
Explore our services below to find out what they offer and how students can get in touch.
Our Student Wellbeing Service provides free mental health, wellbeing and counselling support for students.
We offer one-to-one support like daily advice sessions and counselling, and workshops, courses, events and support groups to connect with others.
Confidential advice and support on disability-related issues
asdac@port.ac.uk | +44 (0)23 9284 3462
Brush up CV skills, find a placement or volunteering opportunities
careers@port.ac.uk | +44 (0)23 9284 2684
Independent advice, support and representation for University of Portsmouth students
hello@upsu.net | +44 (0)23 9284 3628
Most of our support services are bound by confidentiality rules and agreements with students, who are adults.
We will only share information with third parties such as a student’s family member where a student gives permission for us to do so, or if we have serious concerns about a student’s welfare.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contact-us:
Our team are here to answer your questions about studying for an undergraduate degree at Portsmouth
If you can't find the answers you need in our undergraduate pages and there's something you'd like to know about studying in Portsmouth as an undergraduate student, you can contact us using the form below.
Once we've received your message, a member of our undergraduate team will review your request, and aim to get back to you within 2 working days.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/reasons-to-do-a-masters:
Discover the benefits of getting a Master's and how it can boost your career.
Taught Master's degrees can develop your expertise in a field you're passionate about, and give you the skills required to put your knowledge to work.
Whether you've finished your undergraduate degree or you're currently in the workforce, Master's degrees can give you plenty of options.
Don’t just take our word for it – check out some of our Student Stories to see the great experience our students had at uni.
Build on your knowledge from your undergraduate study or work by engaging with complex topics in a more specialised field of your choice.
You'll be able to learn more about what you're passionate about and gain the tools required to make meaningful contributions in your own settings.
You'll dive into key areas and challenges in your field, and learn different approaches to problems.
You'll also develop an understanding of how your theoretical learning can be put to use.
On a Master's you and your peers are all studying to get better at what you do.
You'll learn with motivated course mates bringing their own perspectives and experiences to the same problems.
You'll build a solid study group with your peers to push and encourage each other to develop.
You'll also gain new insights from your course mates that can help shape your learning.
Master's qualifications are highly regarded by employers.
Having a Master's shows your ability to perform to a high level under pressure for an extended period.
It also demonstrates your level of expertise in your chosen subject.
A relevant Master's may give you an advantage over other graduates with a Bachelor's degree when applying for jobs – and if you're an international student, a Master's is a great way to demonstrate your capabilities in the UK.
UK Government data shows that postgraduates regularly have the highest employment rate, with nearly 78% of all working-age postgraduates in professional or high-skilled employment.
This translates to postgraduates earning an average of £6,000 more per year than graduates with a Bachelors degree.
( Graduate Labour Market Statistics, 2021) .
The University have offered numerous solutions to help shape me as a professional individual which has the preparation required to tackle the construction industry.
Mircea Iustin Dobrean, MA Architecture
While taught Master's degrees focus on coursework, your time studying at university can also open up research opportunities for you.
To complete your written assignments, you'll still need to conduct secondary research and learn to use your findings appropriately.
Some courses also include a mini-thesis to give you a taste of what academic research is like.
If you find that research is something you're passionate about, you can expand one of your assessments or mini-thesis through to a PhD .
Studying for a Master's might mean moving cities or even countries.
If you've been wanting a change of setting along with your career path it's a great opportunity to give both a try.
If you're an international student, studying in a different country gives you the chance to graduate with both fantastic life experiences and a great qualification.
Portsmouth is a welcoming, student-friendly city – one where you'll meet people from all around the world, and have the chance to make connections with people in a whole new environment.
Master's degrees focus on learning through teaching rather than a long-term research project or thesis.
Coursework and assessments are geared towards building up your practical knowledge and skillset.
So when you study for a Master's, you can expand your knowledge and develop skills which are directly transferable to your career path or workplace.
You'll also learn to apply your greater expertise to practical scenarios through your assessments and submissions.
If you've decided to pursue a new career, a Master's is an excellent way to prepare yourself for what comes next.
You often don't need a Bachelor's degree in the field you want to study for your Master's.
Having an undergraduate qualification can be helpful in your application, but it's not necessarily essential.
Along with the knowledge and skills you'll gain, you'll walk away with a qualification that people in your new field will recognise.
So when you come to apply for job roles, your Master's degree will give employers confidence in your knowledge and expertise.
Alongside your existing skills and employment experience, your Master's qualification can make you an attractive candidate to potential employers.
When you study for a Master's, you'll be learning from some of the best in your field and study under academics with proven expertise, and extensive academic and professional experience.
There are often guest lectures, conferences and other speaking opportunities too, so you can learn from industry experts.
You'll also have the opportunity to network and pick their brains on key topics.
If you're already in a career or industry you're passionate about, a Master's degree offers you a fantastic professional development opportunity.
It's a great way to accelerate your career progression.
You'll have access to the latest academic developments in your field and apply your workplace skills in new theoretical and practical settings.
You could even get support from your employer in completing this course, including integrating it with your work , reorganising work arrangements or through sponsorship and financial support.
I previously served 7 years in the Royal Navy.
I wanted to pursue a postgraduate qualification to enhance my learning, and gain more knowledge and understanding that will help to boost my career.
I chose Portsmouth because of the accreditations that can be had from professional bodies, the use of financial databases such as Bloomberg and statistical software such as EViews, which enhances practical learning in the real world.
Toni James, MSc Economics, Finance and Banking
Before you decide on a Master's it's important to think about the costs involved.
If you're a UK or EU national you can get access to Government Postgraduate Master's Loan which you can use to fund your tuition fees, living costs and other course costs.
You might also qualify for one of our £3,000 Master's Scholarships and if you're a Portsmouth graduate you could be eligible for a 20% tuition fee discount .
If you're an international student you'll need to plan out how you can cover your costs and fund yourself while you're studying.
If you're currently working you may need to adjust your working hours or potentially look for part-time work.
You might have less money to play with if you're studying full-time and working on the side.
If you're moving cities or countries there are some costs you'll need to consider too.
You'll need to factor in things like the initial cost of moving and your deposit if you're renting a place.
With over 200 Master's courses to choose from, we're confident we've got a course to help you achieve your ambitions.
What Master's route should I take?
Taught qualification or independent research?
On-campus teaching or online part time study?
With flexible study options to suit you and pathways to match your passion you can find the route that’s right for you.
19 May 2023
5 minutes

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees-and-living-expenses:
Get a better understanding of how much you'll pay for tuition, rent and other living costs, before you apply
Once you've decided which postgraduate degree course you want to study, there's one important question that needs answering – how much will my postgraduate studies cost?
We've broken down the 2 main costs – study costs (including tuition fees) and living costs.
Your main cost will be tuition fees.
These vary depending on what you're studying.
You can find the cost of tuition for your chosen subject by visiting the course page .
We don't charge an application fee for our postgraduate courses.
You should also budget for course-related costs – things like books, specialist equipment and optional field trips.
Find details of these additional course costs on the course page .
You can pay your postgraduate tuition fees online by credit or debit card.
Alternatively, during the registration process you can choose to pay in instalments by recurring credit/debit card arrangement or by Direct Debit.
Fees are due as follows:
*The £50 instalment is paid as part payment of fees, not in addition to.
If you have questions about funding your study, or need help sourcing funding, please get in touch with us: email student.finance@port.ac.uk or call +44 (0)23 9284 3014 .
For questions on how to pay your fees, please email income@port.ac.uk .
For some postgraduate students, starting your studies means moving to the city too.
If you're planning on living here while you're studying with us, the good news is that Portsmouth is one of the most affordable places in the UK for students.
Here are some approximate weekly costs that'll help you plan how much money you'll need.
23 January 2023
How to choose and apply for Master's courses.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-bursaries:
Explore your funding options -  from government loans to alumni and staff discounts.
Most postgraduates pay for their studies using loans, scholarships and bursaries, and often a combination of the three.
In case you're not sure – loans need to be repaid (depending on what you earn after graduating), but scholarships and bursaries don't.
If you're applying for an undergraduate (Bachelor's) course or postgraduate research programme, or you're an international student, we also have information on undergraduate scholarships and bursaries , funding a postgraduate research degree and scholarships for international students (including our EU Scholarship for EU students ).
Hear from our in-house Student Finance Team to make sure you’re in the know about available funding options, as well as application and repayment processes.
Watch the webinar
Most students fund their Master’s degree with a Government Postgraduate Master's Loan , which you can use to fund your tuition fees, living costs and other course costs.
The loan is paid directly to you.
These loans aren’t based on your income or your family’s income, so you can choose how much you borrow, up to a maximum of £12,858 per course.
You'll start repaying your loan after your course, once your annual income is more than £21,000.
The loan starts accruing interest from the day you receive the first payment.
If you’re an English national, you can apply for a Government Postgraduate Loan online through Student Finance England .
If you’re a Welsh national, apply online through Student Finance Wales .
Postgrad Solutions are currently offering five bursaries towards postgrad study for those starting in September 2025/January 2026, worth £2,000 each.
Students from all courses and subject areas are invited to apply, regardless of your chosen study mode or whether you're in receipt of wider funding.
For the majority of cases, payment will be made direct to your institution and discounted from your tuition fees.
In some circumstances payment can be put towards student living costs and accommodation.
You'll need to have accepted your offer of study at your chosen institution to be considered.
Find out more and apply
If you're a UK student studying an MSc in Social Work, you may be able to get a bursary from the NHS Business Services Authority.
The bursary consists of a basic grant of up to £4,052 towards course tuition fees and £3,362 towards your living costs.
You might also get a further maintenance grant of up to £2,721.
You can apply for this bursary on the NHS Business Services Authority website .
Please note if you receive the MSc Social Work bursary you are not eligible for the Postgraduate Master's Loan.
If you're studying MArch Architecture, you can usually get undergraduate student funding instead of postgraduate funding, but you'll need to start your MArch course within 3 years of completing your undergraduate degree.
Email our Student Finance Team for more details – student.finance@port.ac.uk .
If you're doing a PGCE, you can get undergraduate student funding, such as a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan to fund your course.
Depending on your circumstances and the course you choose, you may also be eligible for one of the following bursaries.
You won't need to pay these back.
If you train to teach at a secondary school in 2025/26, you may be able to get a bursary of up to £29,000 from the Department of Education on the following courses:
Scholarships are offered by independent charitable institutions.
They set their own eligibility criteria and you’ll need to apply through the relevant scholarship body.
The following PGCE courses are eligible for scholarships:
If you study to become a teacher in further education on our Further Education and Skills PGCE or CertEd in 2025/26, you may be eligible for a bursary or grant awarded by the Department for Education .
If you're not already working in teaching or further education and you'll be studying either of these courses full-time, you may be able to get a pre-service bursary.
Pre-service bursaries, paid to you, are available in the following subjects:
Some organisations, charities and trusts offer bursaries and grants.
These are often given to high-performing students or people from disadvantaged backgrounds.
You can also use the following publications to search for grants.
You can access these at local libraries:
If you've studied at the University of Portsmouth on an undergraduate programme before, you may be able to get a 20% discount off your course tuition fee – use our alumni discount checker to see if you're eligible for this scholarship.
If you or one or both of your parents works at the University, you can get a 30% discount on course fees.
Email income@port.ac.uk to check you're eligible before applying for a course.
Other sources of funding are available for students with a disability , parental responsibilities or students who have been in care .
If you have questions or want to speak someone to find out more, you can contact our in-house Student Finance Centre at student.finance@port.ac.uk .
To find out how to fund your research degree or PHD, see our funding your research section.
You'll find details about research council studentships and bursaries, plus guidance on finding a funded PhD project at Portsmouth.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding/financial-support-for-postgraduate-students-with-dependants:
If you're supporting children or a dependent adult, you could be entitled to some financial help

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding/financial-support-for-disabled-postgraduate-students:
See what additional support could be available to you.
If your application for DSAs is successful, you can use the allowances to help with travel costs, to fund specialist equipment like a computer, or to pay for a non-medical helper to assist with your academic needs.
DSAs don't cover costs unrelated to your study.
The amount you receive is based on your needs, not your income.
The maximum allowance for full- and part-time postgraduate students is £20,000, to cover all aspects of any disability-related costs.
To apply for DSAs, you need to be a UK student studying a postgraduate degree (the allowance is also open to undergraduates ).
If you’re studying part-time, you'll need to be studying the equivalent of 25% of a full-time course, such as 30 credits a year on a typical postgraduate degree.
You can apply for DSAs as part of your application for student finance through Student Finance England .
If you’re not applying for student finance, you can download an application form .
It can take up to 3 months to process your application and arrange for an assessment, so we recommend you apply as soon as possible.
You can also get help and support from our Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre (ASDAC), who can offer advice once you start university and help with your DSAs application.
The ASDAC team supports all students who have a condition which may impact on their ability to access our campus, curriculum, teaching, learning, assessments and any other student-focused service.
The services and support ASDAC offer includes:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/postgraduate-faqs:
To apply for a postgraduate taught degree (e.g.
a Master’s or PGCE), click the apply link at the bottom of your chosen course page .
Follow the on-screen instructions to register an account and start your online application.
You can also read our information about ‘ how to apply for postgraduate study ’.
To apply for a postgraduate research degree (e.g.
a PhD or MPhil), read our page about ‘how to apply for postgraduate research’ .
As a Portsmouth student you can use the quick and easy Fast Track route to apply for your Master’s.
We already know you, so we won't ask for references or a personal statement, saving you time and effort.
And, with our Alumni tuition fee discount, you could save 20% on your fees.
We have a wide range of postgraduate courses in lots of subject areas.
Take a look at our full course list for postgraduate taught and postgraduate research degrees, which you can filter by subject area, start date and course type (e.g.
distance learning or learning at work).
Our course pages include details of the course content, cost, teaching structure and career pathways.
You can also find out more about our subject areas to help you decide which subject to study or visit one of our upcoming Open Evenings.
Scholarship opportunities might be available for your chosen course.
Take a look at our loans, scholarships and bursaries page for information about funding a postgraduate taught degree, or our funding your research degree page if you’re interested in postgraduate research.
Home/EU students: contact our Student Finance Centre with your questions about finance and funding your studies studentfinance@port.ac.uk
International (non-EU) students: contact our Global Team with your finance questions global@port.ac.uk .
Most of our postgraduate courses don’t have an application deadline.
We strongly recommend you apply as early as possible before the start of your chosen course, so you don’t miss out on the critical opening weeks of your course and University events.
Some courses do have application deadlines.
You’ll find this information on the course page .
If you apply after the start date, we can’t guarantee your application will be processed in time to make you an offer.
If we can't make you an offer for the year you want to start, we will automatically consider you for the next year.
If you’re an international student and require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) to apply for a study visa, please email globaladmissions@port.ac.uk for advice about CAS deadlines.
Please read our guidance on writing a personal statement for postgraduate courses .
For health professional courses, we screen personal statements for particular criteria.
You can check the status of your application via our Applicant View system .
If you have more questions about your application status, please contact us:
Home students admissions@port.ac.uk
EU and International students globaladmissions@port.ac.uk
Please click here to access the login page.
Your username starts with UP and you would have received it in the ‘Welcome to your Applicant View’ email we sent you - double-check your junk/spam folder just in case it has gone in there.
Make sure you don't add any accidental spaces or characters after the number (otherwise the system recognises these as a character and it won't work).
If you cannot remember your password, please use the password reset function to help.
If you experience any further technical problems logging in, please email servicedesk@port.ac.uk for help.
You can upload any qualifications we’ve asked for via the Applicant View system .
If you are having difficulty uploading your documents, you can also email them to the relevant team who are handling your application: Home & Channel Island applicants - admissions@port.ac.uk EU & International applicants - globaladmissions@port.ac.uk
A transcript is a summary of a student's academic performance and progress to date.
It lists the modules taken during each academic year, and the marks obtained in each module.
For university transcripts, an official copy will be printed on University transcript paper, which is branded and printed with the University crest.
If you are still unsure, please feel free to email your qualification(s) to admissions@port.ac.uk and one of our team will be able to help you.
If you are an EU or International applicant, please email globaladmissions@port.ac.uk for advice.
If you’d like more information about this process, please read our guidance to Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) .
Please get in touch with admissions@port.ac.uk for more information about transferring to us or, if you are an EU or International applicant, please email globaladmissions@port.ac.uk for advice.
When you apply to study with us, we’ll use the information you provide to determine your fee status as Home, EU or International.
If you’d like to know more about this process, please visit our Fee Assessment Information Page , or if you have any questions please contact feeassessment@port.ac.uk .
If you’ve applied for a postgraduate taught course (e.g.
a Master’s), read our page about what to do after you apply for a Master’s.
If you’ve applied for a postgraduate research degree (e.g.
a PhD), you can find information about the next steps on our how to apply for postgraduate research page .
Our MyPort website (for current students and PhD candidates) has lots of information to help you settle in.
If you’d like to request a letter for this purpose please login to your Student View and click on the "My Student View" tab.
You will then see 6 blue boxes and to request the letter you need, please click on "Request Standard Letters" and pick the one you need.
If you need something more specific or a copy of a transcript, please contact your MyPort Hub accordingly (list of email addresses here ).
As a current UoP student, you will need to talk to your current course administration team (please contact your relevant MyPort Hub Service for your particular course - you can find the list of Hubs here along with their specific contact details) to seek advice about your next steps.
This application route is open to final year undergraduate students, completing their degree in the same year they want to start a Master's at the University of Portsmouth and Alumni of the University of Portsmouth, who graduated the year before — e.g.
start 2024 but graduated 2023.
All eligible year students will be emailed (via their UP email addresses) from now onwards, providing details about the Fast Track service and encouraging you to submit an application through it.
Benefits of applying through Fast Track include a shorter application form to complete, a guaranteed conditional offer for most Master’s courses and 20% off tuition fees .
Full information about our Fast Track service as well as the dedicated Fast Track apply links can be found on our dedicated web page here .
There is no set deadline to accept your offer, but we would recommend that you accept it as soon as you can so you have peace of mind that your place is secured.
Some courses do have an acceptance deadline, so please check your courses' web page for details or email your Admissions team for confirmation.
We can only defer applications that are Firm with us, so you would need to select us as your Firm choice before we can process this.
Once you have made us your Firm choice, please email admissions@port.ac.uk (for Home applicants) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk if you are an EU or Overseas applicant, if you wish to defer your place.
Please note - not all of our courses will accept deferral requests so please check with the team processing your application if this is possible first.
If you are unable to provide an academic reference (if you’ve been out of university for a while, it may not be easy (or relevant) to get back in touch with your old lecturers or, you have not attended university before), we would be happy to accept a professional reference from your workplace.
If you cannot provide a professional reference then there are other referee’s who may be able to help you.
Please email admissions@port.ac.uk (for Home applicants) or globaladmissions@port.ac.uk if you are an EU or Overseas applicant for further advice.
Please note, this could be a request for further information to help us make a decision about your application, other information that may be required or, if we can make a decision straight away, whether we can make you a successful offer!
Please note, if you have applied for a research degree it usually takes us around 4 weeks to process it and give you a decision.
In order for us to consider your PGCE Secondary or PGCE Primary application, please visit The Department for Education Apply website here .
You can also visit our CertEd / PGCE Further Education and Skills pages.
In order to apply for BEd Primary please apply through UCAS using the course code X320 and Institution code P80.
All teacher training courses are subject to interview and police and health checks.
For more information about becoming a teacher, visit the Get Into Teaching website here .
You don't have to give up work to get a university-level qualification.
Recognition of prior learning (RPL) allows you to convert relevant university-level knowledge, skills and experience into credits you can put towards a qualification.
Please visit our dedicated web page here to view the different types of RPL and which one is most applicable to you.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply:
How to choose and apply for Master's courses
Get in touch with us
Ready to apply for a Master's or other postgraduate taught programme?
We'll help you every step of the way - from finding your perfect course to personal statement advice.
You can also find out about entry requirements and what we look at in your application.
Let's get started!
Apply through Fast Track
You should make your application for MSc Social Work course directly to UCAS .
It's best to apply as soon as possible before the start of your course.
This way, you won’t miss out on the critical opening weeks of your course and University events.
The majority of courses start on 16 September, however some will have earlier/later start dates.
Please contact us if you would like confirmation of your course start date.
If you apply after 30 September, we cannot guarantee that your application will be processed in time to make you an offer for this year's entry.
The majority of our courses start on 15 January, however some will have earlier/later start dates.
If you apply after 26 January, we cannot guarantee that your application will be processed in time to make you an offer for January entry.
You might have only just started thinking about doing a Master's qualification, or you might have you heart set on a specific course.
Wherever you are in the process, narrow down your search to the courses that fit your situation.
On our course search, filter courses by award, mode of study and start date.
This will help you refine your search - so if you want to earn while you study, or join us as a part-time student, you can find the best course.
Find my perfect course
Each course page lists the entry requirements you need to meet to get a place on the course.
But because we know there's more than one route into Master's study, if you don't meet all the standard criteria, we still want to hear from you.
You can find a contact on your chosen course page and get in touch with us to discuss your application.
Get in touch
Use the links below to find out what happens after you apply, how to write your personal statement, get help and advice, and more.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/choosing-where-and-what-to-study-postgraduate:
Be in the know before confirming your decision.
Whatever you decide to study, you're not just picking a degree course – you're also choosing a university to join and if you're joining us on campus, a new city to call home.
At Portsmouth, we'll be with you every step of the way.
Below, you'll find everything you need to make an informed decision when you choose one of our Master's courses.
Follow our steps to finding and applying for a Master's course, and you'll be well on your way to reaching your postgraduate ambitions.
You might have only just started thinking about doing a Master's qualification, or you might have you hear set on a specific course.
Whatever your reasons for studying at Master's level, it makes sense to check how a particular course will affect your career prospects.
Some jobs require a Master's level qualification, or you could be looking to take an ambitious next step in your current role.
To get an idea of where your course could take you, take a look at your chosen course page to see the kind of roles you could do and any professional recognition you could get.
Discover careers
It's important to consider all the costs of your study - from your tuition fees and other course costs, to your living expenses.
Before applying, it's worth taking a look at the costs involved and support you might be entitled to.
In our fees and funding section, you'll find information on budgeting, and advice on what financial support you could receive.
Explore fees and funding
When you're looking at our Master's degrees, consider how you'll be taught, what facilities or clinics you'll be using, and the learning support you can access.
You'll find all the information on your chosen course's page.
It's also worth taking a look at the personal wellbeing support you'll be able to access while you're here.
We're on hand to help, whenever you need it.
If you're moving away from home, you'll want to find out what it's like to live and study in Portsmouth.
From places to work on your next assignment, social spaces to unwind in your downtime.
You can take a look at what accommodation options are available - and learn more about what life in the city is like by reading our Student Life page.
Student life in Portsmouth

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/writing-a-personal-statement:
See our checklist for the essentials to include.
Your Personal Statement is a great opportunity for you to introduce yourself and outline why you're a compelling candidate for a course.
It should be about 1,000 words, or one side of A4.
In your personal statement, you should demonstrate your enthusiasm for the course and highlight the skills you've gained from your academic studies and your work or life experience.
If you're not currently studying you should include information about if you've taken a year out, and why, and details of your current or previous employment.
Your personal statement should convey your views and be written in your style.
To be successful, make sure you're clear, concise and factual.
Don't get someone else to write it for you.
In your personal statement, you should include the following:
Think about:
Outline your reasons for doing postgraduate study and specifically the course you've chosen.
Demonstrate your enthusiasm for further study and/or research.
Write about relevant previous academic study, achievements and projects.
Focus on academic skills you've developed and wish to develop further.
Does the course link to your dissertation?
Mention anything that significantly influenced your choice.
Why do you want to study at the particular institution you're applying to?
Are you interested in a particular research focus or quality of research?
Demonstrate that you're clear about what the course will involve.
Ask yourself the following questions:
Give details of any relevant jobs, work experience, placement or voluntary work you have done.
Include the skills and the experience you've gained from these activities.
Reflect on work experience and how this has influenced your choices.
What will you bring to the course as a result?
Consider the skills you'll need to be successful on your course and give evidence you have these skills.
Do you have a clear career goal?
How does your course choice fit with this?
This could demonstrate commitment to the programme to achieve a specific outcome.
Where your chosen course is of a vocational nature, this section will be especially important.
You'll need to include evidence of work experience and career exploration.
For some courses it might be useful to provide evidence of additional skills that are useful in your studies.
For challenging courses it demonstrates that you have an outlet outside your studies.
If you're an international student you may also like to include the following:
Make sure your personal statement is written to a high standard with good spelling and grammar and make sure the meaning is clear.
Don't get someone else to write your personal statement for you – you have to demonstrate that you have the right level of English to support your studies.
If you studied your undergraduate degree at the University of Portsmouth, the Careers and Employability Service can offer support with writing your Master's Personal Statement.
Find out how you can get feedback on your application .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/how-we-assess-your-masters-application:
Understand what we're looking for in your Master's application.
There's more than one route into Master's study.
When you apply to join us, we assess your application on all the information you give us, not just your academic achievements.
Your personal statement, references and any professional experience are all used by our admissions team when they make their decision.
We're not just looking for outstanding candidates on paper – we're interested in the person behind the application too.
Now you know how we assess your application, take a look at one of our Gold-rated postgraduate courses and take the first step towards your exciting future.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/after-you-apply:
How we assess your application, and what to do next
Once you've finished applying for your Master's course , our admissions team will assess your application.
You'll usually get a decision within 10 working days, so you shouldn't have to wait too long.
This could be a request for further information to help us make a decision about your application, other information that may be required or, if we can make a decision straight away, whether we can make you a successful offer.
There's plenty you can do to prepare for your studies between submitting your Master's application and receiving our decision.
Find out about funding your studies, and finding the perfect home away from home.
If you'd like to defer your application to the following intake, please email admissions@port.ac.uk with your name and course for support.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/become-a-primary-school-teacher:
Find out how to become a primary school teacher of children aged 5-11 years old
Primary school teachers help children foster a lifelong love of learning.
If you want to teach in a primary school, we can provide the training, support and school-based mentorship to help you gain a primary teacher qualification and become an accomplished teacher.
We offer two primary teaching degrees - a PGCE Primary and a Bachelor of Education (BEd) in Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
The one that's right for you will depend largely on whether or not you already have an UK undergraduate degree or equivalent (in any subject).
If you do, you can apply for our PGCE Primary, a one-year postgraduate teaching qualification which also gives you QTS - the qualification you'll need to teach in any state-maintained school or non-maintained special school in England or Wales.
If you don't already have an undergraduate degree, don't worry, you can still gain the skills and knowledge you need to achieve QTS and become a primary teacher.
You can apply for our BEd in Primary Education with QTS, a three-year undergraduate teaching degree.
Our one-year PGCE Primary degree - graded as 'Good' by Ofsted in their 2024 inspection - will help you develop the knowledge and skills to plan and deliver primary lessons with confidence and imagination.
You'll learn how to engage children and inspire them with a love of learning at this important formative stage in their development.
With a specific focus on literacy and numeracy, this course will teach you how to deliver the primary curriculum, enabling you to become a caring, creative and reflective primary teacher who really makes a difference.
You'll be taught, mentored and supported by experienced teaching professionals both at the University and on school placements, where you'll develop your individual teaching practice.
By working closely with local schools to continually review and develop our content, our course is based on the reality of the education system, which means you'll graduate ready for the classroom of the future, as well as today.
You'll take part in over 120 days of assessed teaching placements in two of our partner schools, and have the opportunity to spend two weeks in an alternative educational setting.
This allows you to develop a deeper understanding of how teaching works in an area of interest to you, such as Pupil Referral Units, secondary or special educational needs (SEND) schools, hospital schools or the educational departments in a museum, zoo or theme park.
If you're a final year student or a graduate of one of our undergraduate degrees, you'll be guaranteed an interview if you apply for our PGCE Primary course, regardless of your subject or when you graduated.
I chose to apply for the Primary PGCE because it’s really rewarding working with this age, seeing them grow.
I’m friends with a PGCE course rep from the University of Portsmouth, and she only had positive things to say about the course – that it’s really well organised, the placements are good, and you’re buddied up to help support you on your placement.
Liberty Bourke, PGCE Primary
If you don't already have an undergraduate degree, our three-year Bachelor of Education in Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) will give you a route to becoming a primary school teacher who empowers children to succeed and thrive.
You'll learn from expert researchers and practitioners in education and hear from guest speakers with practical expertise and knowledge in primary teaching.
You'll also have the guidance and support of experienced teachers as mentors while you're on teaching placements, building up your classroom skills.
As on our PGCE Primary, you'll have the chance to take part in placements within our extensive network of partner schools and educational settings, including specialist educational environments such as pupil referral units, hospital schools and museums.
The opportunity to customise your primary teaching degree with your choice of specialist subjects means you can explore topics such as technology in education, the role of play in children's development and inclusive primary education.
Begin your journey to becoming a primary school teacher with our PGCE Primary or BEd Primary Education with QTS.
Inspire children into a lifetime of learning by training as a primary teacher.
Study with an expert PGCE team, with support from expert mentors on your school placement.
Start date: September 2025
Develop your teaching practice with our BEd (Hons) Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status degree.
Prepare to engage and empower the next generation.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/become-a-secondary-school-teacher:
Explore our routes into secondary school teaching, including our secondary PGCE courses
A secondary school teacher plays an integral role in helping young people harness their potential.
If you want to become a secondary teacher, we provide several routes to a secondary teaching qualification.
Whatever secondary subject you'd like to teach, throughout your teacher training you'll be supported by our tutors and school-based mentors to gain the skills and confidence you need to become an outstanding secondary school teacher.
We also offer subject knowledge enhancement courses to help you gain a well-rounded grasp of the curriculum you'll be teaching in secondary school, should you need them.
Here are the teachers' degrees and courses we provide to set you on the path to becoming a secondary school teacher.
A Postgraduate Certificate in Education ( PGCE) is the teaching profession's gold standard - and ours was graded as 'Outstanding' by Ofsted in their 2024 inspection.
If you already have a UK undergraduate degree or equivalent in a relevant subject to the one you'd like to teach at secondary level, you can apply for one of our secondary PGCE courses, studying full-time over one year or part-time over two years.
You'll gain a thorough understanding of your chosen subject and learn how to plan and deliver lessons that bring it to life for secondary students, and reflect on what it means to teach.
You'll be supported by tutors, by professional and subject mentors in schools, and by subject knowledge enhancement courses if you feel you need them.
You'll graduate with eligibility for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), ready to begin your teaching career with a qualification that's in high demand.
Thanks to our close links with schools across the region, many of our secondary PGCE graduates get teaching jobs in the local area after they complete the course.
We currently offer secondary PGCE courses in the following subjects, but each comprises three interconnected strands – Curriculum Studies, Professional Studies and School Experience – where the skills and knowledge you gain in the taught sessions can be practised and built up through relevant teaching conditions.
The University does a really good chunk of mentor training to ensure the mentors are prepared for their mentees.
There is a lot of variety to the University days, we’ve had some great workshops on things like voice projection and mindfulness which have been brilliant.
I’ve been lucky enough to already secure a position for next year and that solely has come down to the preparation the University have helped us with.
Harriet Humphries, PGCE Geography
If you don't yet have an undergraduate degree, we offer several degrees which give you the opportunity to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) while you study, with a £9,000 bursary to cover your teacher training.
Study one of our undergraduate language degrees and you can begin secondary teacher training during your second year.
You'll take some specialised units and go on secondary school placements where you'll teach groups of students.
You'll be expected to complete the same entry and course assessments as any other secondary trainee teacher, so when you graduate you'll have both an undergraduate degree in your subject choice and QTS – so you'll be well-placed to apply for teaching positions in secondary schools as a Newly Qualified Teacher (NQT).
As a secondary trainee teacher, you must have a secure curriculum knowledge of the subjects you'll teach in secondary school – and that's where Subject Knowledge Enhancement (SKE) courses can come in handy.
The courses are free if you've accepted a place on the next intake of an Initial Teacher Training Course from any institution – and you may be eligible for financial support while you complete it.
Learn more about our secondary PGCE courses or our Subject Knowledge Enhancement (SKE) courses, or take a look at our undergraduate language degrees that enable you to gain Qualified Teaching Status (QTS) while you study.
Join one of our secondary PGCE courses in English, Maths, Geography, Languages or Science.
Study on a course rated 'Outstanding' by Ofsted and get support from tutors and school-based mentors to plan and deliver lessons with knowledge, confidence and imagination.
Harness your talent for learning languages and turn it into an exciting career in multilingual communication on this practical Applied Languages degree course, with the option to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or a Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) qualification.
Learn one or two languages and immerse yourself in intercultural communication and awareness, to prepare for a career working in the international community, and have the option to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or a Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) qualification.
Study one language, immersing yourself in the culture, history and identity of the communities that speak it, in practical classes and on a year abroad, and have the option to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) too.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/become-a-further-education-teacher:
Learn how to train to teach in colleges, sixth forms and training centres
Teaching in further education means working with older students, usually aged 16 and over.
With further education teacher training, you'd be qualified to teach in sixth forms, colleges and training centres.
If that sounds like your idea of a rewarding career, we offer two routes into further education teaching – depending on your current qualifications and whether or not you're currently working as a teacher or in further education.
We even provide distance learning versions of our further education teacher training, enabling you to study online in your own time.
When you graduate with your further education PGCE or CertEd, you'll have a recognised teaching qualification as a teacher in further education.
You'll also have expert knowledge gained by working closely with course teachers and work-based subject mentors.
PGCE stands for Postgraduate Certificate in Education.
If you already hold a UK undergraduate degree or equivalent, you can apply for our PGCE in Further Education and Skills (rated as 'Good' by Ofsted in 2024), studying for one year full-time or for two years part-time.
The way you'll study our Further Education and Skills PGCE depends on whether or not you're already working or teaching in a college, sixth form, training centre or other further education institution.
If you're new to teaching and the sector, you can study full-time over one year on our university campus or online via distance learning.
Either way, you'll still do your further education teaching placements in person, with full support from a subject mentor.
Or, if you're already working or teaching in further education, you can choose to study on a part-time basis over two years either online via distance learning or at one of our partner colleges (Havant and South Downs College, Chichester College, Isle of Wight College or South Hampshire College Group - Eastleigh College).
You'll teach at least 100 hours and do 75 hours of non-teaching per year in your current role, and be supported by a subject mentor.
If you're a final year student or a graduate of one of our undergraduate degrees, you'll be guaranteed an interview if you apply for our PGCE Further Education and Skills, regardless of your subject or when you graduated.
If you don't yet have an undergraduate degree, this Certificate in Further Education and Skills (CertEd) is for you.
You'll just need a level 3 qualification and several years' professional experience in a relevant subject area.
Our further education CertEd (which was rated 'Outstanding' by Ofsted) works in the same way as our PGCE - the way you'll study comes down to whether or not you're already working or teaching in further education.
If you already have a role at a college, sixth form or training centre, you'll study on over two years part-time either online via distance learning or at one of our partner colleges (Havant and South Downs College, Chichester College, Isle of Wight College or South Hampshire College Group - Eastleigh College).
If not, you'll study for one year full-time on campus or online via distance learning.
If you study online, you'll still attend your further education teaching placements in person.
Choose the route to becoming a teacher in further education with either our CertEd or PGCE in Further Education and Skills.
Learn to teach in colleges and sixth forms with this PGCE Further Education and Skills.
Further your studies at a postgraduate level, boost your employability and achieve your goals.
Start date: September 2025 September 2026 January 2027
Get a formal teaching qualification and work in further education and training on this Certificate in Further Education and Skills (CertEd) course, rated Good by Ofsted.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/subject-knowledge-enhancement-courses:
Fill your subject knowledge gaps ahead of your teacher training course
Training to become a teacher but have gaps in your subject knowledge?
Boost your confidence and build your understanding with our Subject Knowledge Enhancement (SKE) courses.
We offer Self-funded or Department for Education funded courses.
If you are eligible for Department for Education funding you could even be eligible for financial support while you complete your course.
The course can be taken before or during a teacher training programme.
Our courses are flexible to suit your schedule.
Please note: This course accepts Home, EU and International students.
CCPD's courses are designed to develop professional skills and enable career opportunities.
All courses are fully supported by our dedicated CCPD team and led by experts in their fields.
You can take an SKE programme in French, Spanish or English.
If you're looking for an SKE programme in Science or Maths, please visit the Government's SKE Course Directory .
Courses range from 8 weeks to 28 weeks depending on your prior knowledge.
This programme can be funded by the Department for Education, so if you meet the entry requirements you won’t need to pay any fees.
You could also be eligible for a bursary of £175 for each week of the course.
The SKE programme is taught online to allow flexibility in when and how you learn.
A typical week will include 25 hours of learning, which includes:
If you choose to undertake a blended learning course, there will be a full day interactive masterclass on campus in Portsmouth every 4 weeks.
This allows you to engage in deeper learning on a specific area.
If you choose to take a fully online programme, the masterclass materials will be provided via our virtual learning environment for you to work on at your own pace.
You must have received a place on an Initial Teacher Training course.
You are likely to be eligible for an SKE if you have:
Unfortunately if you’ve been awarded a degree in your chosen ITT subject within the previous five years you won’t be eligible for a funded SKE course.
To apply for a Subject Knowledge Enhancement programme (SKE), find your course and duration from the list below and we'll process your application.
You can submit an application at any time of the year.
Accepting Home, EU and International students.
12 week course
Starting June 2025
Apply for the 12 week course
8 week course
Starting July 2025
Apply for the 8 week course
14th July 2025 - 5th September 2025
16th June 2025 - 5th September 2025
16 week course
19th May 2025 - 5th September 2025
Apply for the 16 week course
20 week course
21st April 2025 - 5th September 2025
Apply for the 20 week course
28 week course
24th February 2025 - 5th September 2025
Apply for the 28 week course
19th May 2025 - 5th September 2025
Please email ske@port.ac.uk for more information.
ske@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/fees-and-funding:
Find out how much your tuition fees will cost, and the different ways you can fund your study with us
The amount your teaching training will cost varies, depending on what course you're studying, the subject you're focusing on, and where you're applying from.
The good news is that if you're on a qualifying teacher training course in England, there are plenty of bursaries, loans and funding options open to you when it comes to paying for your studies.
If you’re studying any of our PGCE courses – and you’re not eligible to receive a bursary or scholarship – you're eligible for an undergraduate student loan to help cover your fees and living costs.
You won’t have to pay the cost of your tuition in advance (although you can, if you'd like to) and you'll only repay the loan when you're in employment and earning more than £25,000 a year.
You may also be eligible for a maintenance loan towards your living costs – visit the Student Finance England website for more guidance.
Your personal circumstances can also affect your eligibility for further funding, and the UK government's student finance calculator can help you work out if you can claim for Parents' Learning Allowances, Childcare Grants, Child Tax Credits and many other additional sources of funding.
PGCE trainees studying to become secondary teachers may be eligible for considerable financial support.
If you train to teach at a secondary school in 2024/25 , you may be able to get a bursary of up to £28,000 from the Department for Education on the following courses:
If you study Further Education and Skills PGCE or CertEd in 2025/26, you may be able to receive a bursary or grant awarded by the Department for Education to support your study with us.
If you're not already working in teaching and you'll be studying the PGCE or CertEd full-time, you may be able to get a pre-service bursary.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/teacher-training-events:
Get to know us better.
If you think a career in teaching could be for you, why not come along to one of our teacher training events to find out more?
Details of our upcoming teacher training events are below.
Join us virtually to learn about our teacher training courses.
Whether you're interested in Primary, Secondary, or Further Education, our teacher training courses cover a wide range of subjects.
The event will take place from 5pm- 6pm and the programme is as follows:
Register for free to receive a link to the Zoom event

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/how-to-apply:
Ready to take the step into teaching?
Here's how to apply for any our teaching training courses
The entry requirements for our teaching training vary by course, but applying is straightforward whichever course you choose.
Find details of how to apply to each course on the related course page.
See our course pages for further details about how to apply:
You'll need to apply to the secondary PGCE course through the Department for Education with the DfE training code for your chosen subject.
Find your subject code on the PGCE courses page .
To start your application for our further education and skills courses, visit their individual course pages.
Find out how to prepare if you're invited to a PGCE interview.
What you need to do after you accept your PGCE offer with us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/how-to-apply/the-pgce-interview-process:
After you submit your PGCE application, you'll be notified by one of our team if you've made it to the interview stage.
Once you’ve heard back from all your choices, you have 10 working days to let us know if you'd like to attend an interview.
If you're successful at the interview, we'll send you an offer.
Once you receive your interview invitation, please remember to email us at teachertraining@port.ac.uk to confirm you can attend the interview day.
To get the fullest picture of you, we'll discuss your application form and your academic reference, your experience in schools, your subject awareness and your performance in the tasks and sessions during the day.
We'll assess whether you possess the appropriate personal and intellectual qualities to be a teacher, and your capability to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the end of your training.
Our interview process is fully compliant with the requirements of the National College for Teaching and Leadership.
How we assess you and the criteria for selection can be found below.
Throughout our selection procedure, we'll assess your capability to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the end of your training.
We'll also assess whether you possess the appropriate personal and intellectual qualities to be a teacher.
We'd like to hear about any teaching experience or observations you've had, and why you're interested in the PGCE you're applying for.
We want to assure ourselves you're aware of the demands of teaching and have some idea about the English school system, including current curriculum developments.
If you are going to study PGCE Mathematics or PGCE Science, one of the standards you must meet to gain Qualified Teacher Status is knowledge and understanding of your subject.
This requires you to be confident and authoritative in the subject, specifically in relation to the programmes of study for the Key Stages you're training in.
We'll send you a subject audit form ahead of your interview.
The form helps us make an initial assessment of your subject knowledge.
We'll use it to shape the questions we ask you at the interview.
If we offer you a place, the form will also help us tailor your pre-course reading list and preparatory work so you're prepared to start in September.
If you have gaps in your subject knowledge, we may still offer you a place.
We'll make an assessment of your ability to meet all the Teachers’ Standards — subject knowledge is only one of them.
You're required to prepare a short teaching session (no longer than 10 minutes) on a topic of your choice.
This could be subject specific although you can also pick a skill, interest or hobby to teach to other applicants on the day.
You will be teaching to a small group (approximately 4 or 5 others) who will not necessarily be specialists in your subject area.
You should think about how to make your session accessible and model good teaching practice.
Your session should have:
The group will take turns giving you feedback on your session and you'll also take a turn as the evaluator.
You must bring everything with you that you need.
You won't have access to any additional teaching resources such as PowerPoint, OHP, whiteboard or flipchart.
This is a deliberate decision we've made to get you thinking creatively.
You may bring prepared resources or artefacts to support your teaching, but make sure you have enough for each participant.
The reading and writing task assesses your ability to communicate accurately in standard written English.
You'll receive the task on the day and won't have to do prior preparation.
The group discussion task is designed to assess your ability to communicate clearly and accurately in spoken Standard English.
The individual interviews normally take place with your course leader and a school-based mentor.
You can prepare for your interview by developing your ideas on areas such as:
After your interview we'll reach out to you by email to let you know if your application is successful.
We typically contact applicants within 2 weeks after your interview.
If you're successful, you'll receive guidance on how to accept our offer and information on preparing for your course.
If you have any questions on preparation and process, please contact the Admissions Team in the University Admissions Centre:
Email: teachertraining@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/masters-and-postgraduate-taught/teacher-training/how-to-apply/after-you-accept-your-pgce-offer:
If you accept an offer to study a PGCE with us, you'll need to complete several forms before we confirm your enrolment.
We'll send you the relevant forms in your offer email.
The following information explains what each of these forms are and why we ask for them.
Our PGCE is a course of professional training.
The Trainee Agreement Form helps you understand the expectations and demands of the course and helps us resolve any challenges.
Teachers have a duty of care towards the pupils in their change.
We're required to assess your physical and mental fitness to meet the demands of the career, so you have to complete a 'Fitness to teach' form.
These fitness standards are summarised in the Higher Education Occupational Physicians and Practitioners (HEOPS) teaching student fitness standards .
All candidates offered a firm or conditional place on a course of Initial Teacher Training must complete an Occupational Health questionnaire before final acceptance.
This information will be assessed by the Occupational Health Nursing staff who may contact you by phone for further information if necessary.
Occasionally an appointment may need to be made with either one of the Occupational Health Nurses or the Occupational Health Physician.
Please be aware that you may be deemed unfit to continue your training if you are found to have:
If the questionnaire identifies that you need occupational health support during your studies, we can give you support for your physical, mental and social wellbeing.
You can contact us with any concerns you have about your health in relation to your training at any time and we can arrange a referral on your behalf to the Occupational Health Service.
All individuals working in a school environment are legally required to take a DBS check.
We will request a DBS check as part of our conditions of enrolment.
DBS forms will be sent to you close to the start of the course.
If you have any questions on preparation and process, please contact the Admissions Team in the University Admissions Centre: Email: teachertraining@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/postgraduate-research-proposal-guide:
Follow our step by step guide
Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Before you start writing your research proposal, make sure you:
At Portsmouth, I’ve learnt that opportunities are there if you want to take them.
I’ve gained confidence in my abilities.
And how to focus my ideas into an area of research.
Maddie Wallace, PhD Creative Writing and Literary Theory
Your personal statement is an opportunity to tell us about yourself, and to outline why you're a compelling candidate for a research degree with us.
In your statement, you should demonstrate your enthusiasm for your research topic and highlight the skills you've gained from your academic studies and your work or life experience.
Watch our helpful videos
Contact Postgraduate Admissions

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/postgraduate-research-proposal-guide/how-to-write-a-research-proposal-that-stands-out:
Take the next steps towards your PhD
When you apply for a research degree at the University of Portsmouth, you may have to submit a research proposal that outlines, among many other things, the nature of your research, and why it's important.
To help make yours as compelling as possible, read our helpful hints for creating a clear, concise and engaging research proposal.
Prospective supervisors will not be expecting you to have all the answers at this stage; if accepted onto a research degree, your ideas will develop throughout the course of your studies.
Most proposals are between 1,500-4,000 words, but the exact length will vary depending on which research area you're applying to join.
Your potential supervisor can let you know any specific requirements for the area you’re applying to.
You are strongly encouraged to work with your potential supervisor to refine your proposal before you make a formal application.
This way, you can make sure the project is a good fit with their interests and expertise.
Do your homework - make sure your problem hasn't already been solved.
Engage the reader - you don't want the reader to switch off!
Be realistic - especially about timescales and accessing data
Take your time - it's important not to rush writing your research proposal
Seek feedback - it's always a good idea to get others to read your research proposal
Prepare to be flexible, your project can evolve or change
Do:
Don’t:
My PhD supervisor supported my career ambitions and has been crucial in getting me where I am today.
Robert Lawerence, PhD Molecular Microbiology
Learn more about research proposals and the process involved in creating the perfect application.
Speak to one of our friendly team and ask us anything about your postgraduate study options.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/reasons-to-do-a-phd-or-research-degree:
Discover the benefits of getting a PhD or research degree and how it can boost your career.
Do you love learning, want to keep researching or hit the heights of your field of expertise?
PhDs and research degrees help you start or continue your research in a field you're passionate about.
You can decide what you work on, how you work on it and how you get there, with support and guidance from a supervisory team.
Make a world-first discovery, create innovation with lasting impact or shine a new light on important topics.
Whether you've just finished your postgraduate degree, in the workforce or returning to uni after a break, a research degree gives you a lot of options.
For me Portsmouth bridged the gap between academia and practical work, from leading my own firm (Alexandrite Decisions) to founding a charity organisation for cancer patients support.
Rania Azmi, Goal Programming Research Doctorate
If you simply love learning and have a passion for discovering new things then it's a good sign a research degree is for you.
You'll pick a topic you're interested in and have the freedom to dive deep into the heart of a problem.
Draw on the years of research in your field, forge your own findings or perspective and make your contribution to a body of exceptional research.
Build on your knowledge from your Master's degree by engaging with complex topics in a more specialised field of your choice.
You'll be able to learn more about what you're passionate about and give you the tools to make meaningful contributions to specific research fields.
You'll dive into key areas and challenges in your field, developing your theoretical approach and applying it through your research.
Or you could look at conducting interdisciplinary research.
Blend theories, approaches and expertise across fields and universities to create brand new, world-leading research.
If you want to start applying what you learned in your studies then a research degree is a great way to do it.
You'll work independently in gathering resources and research.
You'll develop sharp time management skills, share your findings with your peers and develop your work together.
You'll hone your communication skills so you can discuss complex topics both written and verbally to experts and everyday people alike.
You'll develop your interpersonal skills, working with professional staff, peers, academics and others.
Become a master of taking on feedback as you refine your research.
Writing an extended report or essay takes time and skill.
Identifying an objective, working in the lab or forging an argument and making your case with evidence takes talent.
You'll end up a technical expert and writer no matter what field you're in.
During your research degree, you and your peers are all studying to get better at what you do.
You'll learn with motivated researchers bringing their own perspectives and experiences to the same problems.
You'll build a solid study group to push and encourage each other to develop.
You'll also gain new insights from your classmates that can help shape your learning.
A research degree is a great way to become a subject matter expert or researcher.
A research-based degree is the most direct pathway to an academic job at university.
You'll get the skills you need to compete in the university sector.
After you graduate you can look at becoming a tutor, researcher or lecturer.
Most universities offer post-doctoral research fellowships where you can get paid to hone your skills, carry on researching and get your academic career rolling.
Some jobs require a Master's or PhD and generally pay very well in the private and public sector.
You could:
PhDs and research degrees are a great chance to expand your network and meet diverse people with similar interests, knowledge and passion.
You'll have the chance to attend conferences, seminars and workshops in different cities or countries.
Gain new insights and build connections with other researchers and experts across borders.
Networking with coursemates, colleagues and other academics helps expand your knowledge base and balance the solitude that can often come with a research life.
Having a network is also incredibly helpful in finding and applying for funding and looking for work in the future.
Studying for a PhD or research degree might mean moving cities or even countries.
See why Portsmouth is a great place to live
Since starting my PhD, I have been lucky enough to publish twice and visit three different conferences, one of which was held at Cornell University.
These opportunities will prove invaluable in my career going forwards, in academia.
Robert Lawrence, PhD Molecular Microbiology
Just like any course, the benefits you'll get from a research degree depends on what you want to get out of it.
When you're weighing up your options there are some important questions you should ask yourself to make sure it's right for you.
Studying a research degree is a multi-year time commitment.
If you're excited by the idea of spending a significant period of time dedicated to one subject, that's a good sign you're ready.
Research degrees often involve a lot of independent work, so if you're only partly interested in the subject, you might find yourself losing interest.
That can make meeting your own expectations more difficult.
Is learning about and working in this field something that you can see yourself in for the next 5-10 years?
And where do you want to be in that timeframe?
It's important not to study just so you can put off bigger life decisions.
There are many different jobs or careers in every field.
Not all of them require you to have a research Master's or PhD.
If you want to contribute to a specific industry or area, do you already have some skills and knowledge you can apply in it?
If not, what skills or knowledge will a research degree give you?
If you've finished your Bachelor's or Master's degree and are looking at your next options, a research degree is an option that keeps things familiar.
For some students, if you've spent the last 3-4 years studying you might want to try something different.
It depends on who you are, what you care about and what you want to do with your life.
If you finished your degree and you're mostly relieved it's over then jumping right back into study may not be the best fit for you.
Remember that you can always go to uni again later.
Plenty of graduates spend a few years working before coming back to upskill, retrain or dive into their passion.
In a lot of cases, what you've learned in your work experience will make you a better student when you go back to it.
Every research student has at least one supervisor.
They're there to support and guide you as you develop your ideas and compile your research
Having the right supervisor can be the difference between making your research good, great or excellent.
If they're running or part of a research centre or group you may have greater access to networks and resources
It's best you explore supervisors you can work with , which might mean checking out multiple universities and reaching out to them directly.
Usually, their profile will say if they're taking on new students and they're happy to get back to you by email.
As it is a PhD I have formed my course myself, but having a supervisor who is well-versed in my subject area is the most unique part of my work here, as no one else is approaching the subjects we look at in a similar way
Beatrice Ashton-Lelliott, PhD English Literature
Before you decide on a research degree it's important to think about the costs involved.
If you're a UK national applying for an MPhil or MRes course, you might be eligible for a Government Postgraduate Master's Loan which you can use to fund your tuition fees, living costs and other costs for a Master's course.
When considering a PhD there are funded and non-funded options:
If you're moving cities or countries there are other costs you'll need to consider.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/professional-doctorates:
Find out how you could study for a Professional Doctorate – also known as a 'while-you-work doctorate' – at Portsmouth
Sometimes known as a 'while-you-work doctorate', Professional Doctorates are internationally-recognised qualifications, designed for working professionals in the private and public sectors with an active interest in work-based research.
Unlike a PhD, a professional doctorate is not a pathway towards a career in academia, but an opportunity to combine your professional practice with a research degree.
That means you'll complete your doctorate – conducting research relating to your current organisation, and gaining the highest level of skills and knowledge – while continuing your career.
Professional Doctorates involve both text-based study and action research.
They're assessed through coursework and a final assessment in the form of a doctoral level, research-based thesis, which also includes a viva voce (oral defence).
Explore our full list of available professional doctorates here.
The cost of our professional doctorates can be found on the individual doctorate pages – click the course you'd like to study from the list above to see the full-time and part-time costs, for UK, EU and international students.
And to explore the ways in which you can fund your professional doctorate, visit our page on funding your research degree .
Before you contact us about any of our professional doctorate courses, you'll need to have the following documentation ready:
You can then apply for our Professional Doctorates directly from their respective course pages – choose the relevant course from the list above to start.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/mphil:
Learn more about our MPhil (Master of Philosophy) research degrees, and start your application today
An MPhil is a postgraduate research degree that allows you to develop similar skills to a PhD.
You'll complete the sort of extensive research associated with PhDs, but won't need to provide the same level of original contribution.
You'll do an independent project – like a PhD but smaller – submit a thesis of up to 40,000 words, and defend your work successfully in an oral examination ( viva voce ).
The programme takes 2 years if studying full-time, or 4 years if studying part-time.
With an MPhil, you'll be in a great position to move onto further research, such as a PhD, or to use your new postgraduate qualification to progress your career, thanks to the skills you'll develop – such as critical thinking, problem-solving, project management, creativity, communication and leadership.
To start exploring our MPhil opportunities, visit our research subject areas .
The cost of your MPhil will vary depending on where you're from, what you're studying, and whether you plan to study full-time or part-time.
As a guide, MPhils cost £4,000 –£5 ,000 a year (full-time) or £2,000–£3,000 a year (part-time) for UK/EU students, and £13,000–£16,000 a year (full-time) or £6,500–£8,000 a year (part-time) for international students.
For more details, check your subject area's page from the list above.
To help fund your MPhil, you may be eligible for a Government Postgraduate Master's Loan , which you can use to cover your tuition fees, living costs and other course costs, up to a maximum of £10,609 per course.
To see other sources of funding that may be open to you when you apply, visit our page on funding your research degree .
Ready to start your application?
Visit our pages on how to apply .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/phd-by-publication:
Explore how you can turn your existing peer reviewed research publications into a PhD qualification
A PhD by publication is a postgraduate research degree that's based on research you've already undertaken and had published (excluding self-publishing) before registering with us.
Depending on the subject area, peer reviewed academic papers, complete books, chapters in anthologies, or equivalent materials accepted for publication, exhibited or performed may be eligibl e.
You'll have to submit these materials for examination between 6–12 months after registering with us.
These materials will be accompanied by a commentary of 5,000–10,000 words, which outlines your work's coherence, significance and contribution to knowledge, and you'll be examined through an oral defence of your research, known as a viva voce.
Applicants must have held a first or higher degree from a UK higher education institute – or a recognised equivalent non-UK degree of the same standard – for at least 5 years.
Once you've been awarded a PhD by publication, you'll be in a great position to move onto further research or to use your new postgraduate qualification to progress your career.
From October 2026, all PhD by Publications will be completed by distance learning.
However, there is no expectation that any student applying for a start date before this should be on campus.
The cost of getting a PhD by publication in all of our subject areas is £5,006 (for 2025/26, subject to an annual increase) for external candidates – check your research subject area page for more details.
To be considered for a PhD by publication, you'll need to have held an undergraduate or postgraduate degree – awarded either by a UK higher education institute or a recognised non-UK equivalent – for at least 5 years.
If you already hold a doctoral level qualification, you are not eligible to apply for this award.
To apply you'll need:
Apply from the relevant subject area page .
If your application is successful, you'll need to submit the already-published materials – those that you wish to be considered as part of your PhD by publication award – between 6–12 months after registering with us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/md:
Discover the details of our MD (Doctor of Medicine) research degrees
An MD is a programme for medical professionals to obtain a research degree.
To do an MD, you need to hold a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery, Bachelor of Dental Surgery or equivalent.
During your MD, you'll do research that draws on your clinical expertise.
Your research may involve clinical trials, epidemiology, laboratory-based research, systematic review, social science or qualitative methodologies.
You can take up to 2 years full-time or 4 years part-time to complete your MD.
We welcome applications from candidates in the following research subject areas:
If you're ready to apply for an MD with us, please follow the links below to our online application forms.
October 2025 entry ( Full-time / Part-time )
February 2026 entry ( Full-time / Part-time )
April 2026 entry ( Full-time / Part-time )
April 2026 entry ( Full-time / Part-time )

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-degrees/mres:
Find out more about our MRes (Master of Research) courses
A Master of Research (MRes) is a taught postgraduate degree that contains a programme of specialist research training, during which you'll complete a large research project.
Open to applicants with a UK undergraduate degree or international equivalent, our MRes courses offer a structured entry into research and the chance to study a specific subject area in greater depth, while developing your research skills.
You'll spend a third of your time in the taught element of your course – covering your chosen subject and training in research methodology – and the remaining two-thirds completing your personalised research dissertation.
With an MRes you'll be in a great position to move onto further research, such as a PhD, or to use your new postgraduate qualification to progress your career, thanks to the skills you'll develop – such as critical thinking, problem-solving, project management, creativity, communication and leadership.
From finding out which postgraduate option is right for you, to exploring the perfect course, browse our upcoming webinars and in-person events and book your place today.
What was unique about the MRes was that I could pick the course subject and title together with my supervisor.
The course involves similar tasks to the first year of a PhD making it a great transitional postgraduate course.
Zay Afzal, MRes Science
We currently offer the following MRes degrees:
For details of how much your studies will cost – and to start exploring the funding options open to you while you study for your MRes – check the relevant course page from the list above.
In terms of funding your MRes, you may be eligible for a Government Postgraduate Master's Loan , which you can use to fund your tuition fees, living costs and other course costs, up to a maximum of £10,609 per course.
You can check your eligibility and start applying here .
Click your chosen course from the list above to get started.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/funding-your-research-degree/scdtp-bursary:
Fund your PhD with an ESRC SCDTP bursary
Subject to continued funding, the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP) is now accepting funding applications from students wishing to commence their studies in the 2025/26 academic year.
The University of Portsmouth is part of the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP) , alongside the Universities of Southampton, Brighton and Chichester.
The SCDTP is a beacon of excellence, innovation and imagination in the training of the next generation of social scientists.
Funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) , the South Coast DTP will be awarding a minimum of 34 studentships per year to social scientists carrying out PhD studies, or Masters + PhD studies.
All four universities are home to research centres with global reputations for their expertise and excellence, alongside a diversity of other specialisms.
You should approach potential supervisors with your own research idea, or may develop a proposal to fit within our areas of expertise in Area Studies, Business and Management, Criminology or Psychology .
Check the box below for more details, and to make contact with our supervisors and research coordinators.
The University's Centre for European and International Studies Research (CEISR) brings together world leading research in Area Studies.
There are more than 60 members of CEISR, and their research is organised into nine clusters.
Contact Dr Brigitte Leucht and Dr Mario Saraceni
This research group explores the history, societies, cultures, politics and languages of different regions of the world, with a particular emphasis on decolonial perspectives.
It focuses particularly on centring the experiences, voices and ways of understanding the world of people and groups who are marginalised by the dominant power relations in a given place at a given time.
It is interested in the complexities of how different political systems, societies and cultures function and promotes inter- and intra-area comparative study.
A second focus of this group is the exploration of global power relations, including relations between states, legal structures, borders, interactions between the local and the global, the changing centres and structures of knowledge production itself and its traditional Eurocentric ontology and epistemology.
Contact Dr Dafydd Townley and Dr Matthew Powell
The Peace, Conflict and Security (PSC) research group is an interdisciplinary forum for sharing research, knowledge and research practice focused on the intertwined fields of peace, security and conflict studies.Our members focus on research areas including: security and development, war and film, religious extremism, insurgency and political violence, war and the body, the character of warfare, international relations theory, emotion and terrorism, african security, gender and security, multinational warfare and coalitions, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction and socio-technical security.
Contact Dr George Ackers
The Sociology and Social Theory Research Group brings together researchers from the fields of sociology, social psychology, politics, history, linguistics, and cultural studies.
It serves as a hub for interdisciplinary exchange on questions of theory and methodology in the study of contemporary society.
The specialist research interests of group members include: classical and contemporary social and cultural theory; climate change: social, economic, and political issues; consumption and the environment; culture, class, taste and aesthetics; eating, food, and drink; economic life, work, and employment; education, knowledge, and social reproduction; emotions, happiness and wellbeing; gender, sexuality, and identity; globalization, inequality and protest movements; homelessness and migrant homelessness; race, ethnicity, citizenship, and nationalism; religion and secularisation; sport, culture and economy.
Contact Dr David Norman or Dr Nora Siklodi
The broad focus of this group is research into cross-border transnational and supranational dimensions of Europe, the European Union and the wider world past and present.
The group comprises researchers from political studies, history, sociology, ethnology and cultural studies fostering interdisciplinary debate and co-operation.
Our members focus on research areas including: education in transnational spaces; ethnicity in cross-border relationships; expertise in supranational policymaking; governance beyond the state; identity; migration; non-governmental organisations; politics and policymaking in the european union; revolution and gender; transnational mobilisation and law; transnational political parties.
Contact Dr Lana Chikhungu or Dr Isabelle Cockel
This group comprises scholars from a range of disciplines including historical studies, social studies, international development, media and education working on women and gender issues in a wide range of historical, social and cultural contexts.
There are a number of areas of interest including:women’s suffrage; biographies and life stories; femininities and alcohol consumption/sobriety; sexualities; women and gender in North Africa, Taiwan, India and South Sudan; intersections of feminism and race; ending violence against women and girls; harmful gender based cultural practices such as FGM; gender and the civil rights movement in the USA; religion and gender; gender and education; gender and sexual harassment; gender representations in the media.
Our Business and Management research spans over five research centres: the Agile Centre for Equitable Sustainability , the Centre of Blue Governance (CBG) , the Centre for Innovative and Sustainable Finance (CISF) , the Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL) , and the Centre for Business Resilience Inclusive Development Growth and Enterprise (BRIDGE) , with an additional number of research clusters, including Experimental Research , Sports Management and Innovation.
For more information on the potential research areas and available supervisors, please explore our research centre pages.
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Prof Diego Vasquez-Brust
The Agile Centre for Equitable Sustainability develops new, actionable, transformative and interdisciplinary knowledge bridging social and environmental research in sustainability across disciplines, we aim to achieve world-class standing for the quality and relevance of research and education in Equitable Sustainability; with a focus on engendering action and innovation to provide agile responses to challenges affecting pathways towards an equitable and sustainable society.
Equitable Sustainability aims to provide on the one hand socially feasible and just solutions for environmental challenges such as pollution and waste, climate change and biodiversity reduction and on the other hand environmentally sound and just solutions to address poverty, deprivation and social and economic inequality, injustice and exclusion.
We propose scalable solutions for sustainable development challenges and contribute to the UN SDGs through our areas of excellence in a) responsible and sustainable production and consumption, b) global justice, sustainable and inclusive communities, c) innovation and project management for equitable sustainability and humanitarian action, d) sustainable and affordable energy and inclusive climate action, e) environmental justice and wildlife protection
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Dr Helen Currie
The Centre for Blue Governance at the University of Portsmouth aims to meet the holistic and multi-disciplinary research needed to inform blue governance mechanisms.
The CBG takes a more expansive view of Blue Economy to encompass marine and freshwater systems and conceptualises them as development spaces.
The overall objective of the Centre is multidisciplinary collaboration to contribute to the design, setting-up and implementation of blue growth in countries, regions and political entities.
It will develop and provide inter-disciplinary research expertise at both sectoral (various economic branches) and overall levels (coordination, planning) with a strong emphasis on the challenge synergising nature conservation and economic development.
The Centre for Blue Governance will also serve as a nexus to facilitate collaboration across stakeholders in blue governance.
It provides multi-discipline expertise to the multi-sector and multi-user landscape of aquatic governance.
The Centre's activities encompass research, development policies, social justice and education.
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Dr Scott Mahadeo
Global warming, pandemics, recurrent financial crises, and new web-based technology — in response to a world in constant flux, The Centre for Innovative and Sustainable Finance (CISF) is undertaking research that helps governments, organisations, individuals, and society adapt to the evolving national and international financial landscape.
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Dr Huijing Chen
In the Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL) , we're using our expertise in analytics, data, algorithms, system design, simulation, modelling, programming, and forecasting to help organisations around the world make better decisions.
At a time when businesses are facing ever-more complex questions – around issues such as technology, efficiency and sustainability – we're working closely with partners in the public and private sector to solve their problems and challenges.
At CORL, experts in mathematics, technology, business and industrial research work on research that spans many potential applications.
Recent projects have explored ways to make transport systems more efficient and how analytics can be used to improve healthcare and renewable energy.
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Prof Sarah Turnbull
More information about the BRIDGE Centre can be found in the centre's webpage .
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Dr Wolfgang Luhan
The Experimental Research cluster brings together researchers from various disciplines within the Faculty of Business and Law and it includes a large group of collaborators from other faculties and universities, both in the UK and overseas.
The cluster provides research support in all areas of behavioural and experimental research and allows members and collaborators access to the shared lab facilities and protocols for experimental research in the laboratory, online and in the field.
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Dr Christina Philippou
PhD programme enquiries to be directed to Professor Sercan Ozcan .
The School of Criminology and Criminal Justice was founded in 1992 and is internationally-recognised for its study of crime, its causes, and the societal and personal impact it has.
We're the largest criminology department in the UK and we have interdisciplinary expertise in criminological analysis, applied psychology, policing, community justice, penology, risk, security and international and comparative criminal justice.
Our courses and research range from criminology and criminal justice, to counter fraud, forensics, criminal psychology and cybercrime.
We have a strong international reputation for research and innovation, which feeds into our teaching and makes a positive impact on society.
We have eight groups in Criminology research.
We also have the Centre for Cybercrime and Economic Crime harnessing, coordinating and developing the cybercrime and economic crime expertise across the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice , the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences , and the wider University, including the School of Computing , the School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences , and the Faculty of Business and Law .
As one the largest groups of active researchers in these areas in the UK, our members are at the forefront of researching and understanding the challenges posed by cybercrime and economic crime.
Their work contributes to solutions that address these risks and enhance societal and organisational security and resilience.
The School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences is home to internationally-renowned experts and exceptional facilities for practical and theoretical research.
There are over 45 members of staff, organized into four research centres; the International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology (ICRFP), the Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology (CCEP), the Centre for Interaction, Development & Diversity (CIDD), and the Quality of Life, Health & Wellbeing research group.
The studentships are funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) for social science research in Area Studies, Business and Management, Criminology or Psychology.
The studentships cover University of Portsmouth tuition fees and an annual maintenance grant of £19,237 (2024/25 rate) .
The SCDTP is able to accept applications from UK and Overseas applicants to all of our accredited disciplines/pathways, however due to UKRI funding conditions, awards to non-UK residents are capped to a maximum of 30% of the total number of studentships awarded.
You can apply for 3 different types of funding:
1+3.5 – Funding is provided for students to undertake a Master's programme followed by 3.5 further years during PhD funding, including a Research-in-Practice placement.
+3.5 – Students receive 3.5 years funding whilst undertaking an accredited PhD programme at one of the partner institutions, including a Research-in-Practice placement.
+4.5 – Exceptionally a +4.5 award will be made available to students who are undertaking research of a particularly interdisciplinary nature, and including a Research-in-Practice placement.
In recognition of the additional training requirements of the research, 4.5 years funding will be provided whilst undertaking an accredited PhD programme at one of the partner institutions.
You will be required to complete a tailored programme of 60 ECTS points, identified by the Development Needs Analysis which will be completed during your programme.
Y ou must have a Bachelors' degree at first or upper second-class level, from a UK academic higher education institution .
Degree qualifications gained from outside the UK, or a combination of qualifications and/or experience that is equivalent to a relevant UK degree, may be accepted.
Studentships are open to UK, EU and international students.
English language proficiency at a minimum of IELTS band 6.5 with no component score below 6.0.
For 1+3.5 funding applications please provide a research proposal of 750 words.
For +3.5 funding applications please provide a research proposal of 1,500 words.
Please refer to our research proposal guide for further advice.
The first thing you’ll need is a University supervisor to support your SCDTP application – so you’ll need to contact prospective supervisors before you submit an application.
You're strongly encouraged to regularly discuss your research proposal with the supervisor as it is developed.
ESRC studentships are highly competitive and it is crucial that applications are as good as they possibly can be.
Please check the areas of expertise listed in the ' Explore our research areas ' section above and then contact the relevant supervisor to discuss your idea further.
For projects in Area Studies, apply here quoting project code DTP50020125 .
For projects in Business and Management, apply here quoting project code DTP50030125 .
For projects in Criminology, apply here quoting project code DTP50040125 .
For projects in Psychology, apply here quoting project code DTP50050125 .
Please note : you’ll need to submit two applications , an online application to the University of Portsmouth plus an application for funding to the SCDTP.
For more details, visit the SCDTP website.
The application deadline is Friday 17 January 2025 (17:00 GMT) .
9 November 2023
2 minutes
Explore our pre-approved Area Studies PhD projects, learn more about our MPhil and other research degrees, and find out how to join the thriving research community at the University of Portsmouth.
Explore our pre-approved Psychology PhD projects, learn more about our MPhil and other research degrees, and find out how to join the thriving research community at the University of Portsmouth.
Explore our pre-approved Criminology PhD projects, learn more about our MPhil and other research degrees, and find out how to join the thriving research community at the University of Portsmouth.
Explore our pre-approved Business and Management PhD projects, learn more about our MPhil and other research degrees, and find out how to join the thriving research community at the University of Portsmouth.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/the-doctoral-college:
Home to an exceptional research community
Whether you're studying for a PhD, MPhil, MRes, MD, Professional Doctorate or PhD by Publication, the Doctoral College can help you through every aspect of your research degree, from admission, registration, submission of your thesis, to your viva voce examination.
The Doctoral College is where you'll find bespoke training and professional development courses to grow your research career – and is your first port of call for student and supervisor guidance and support, and for the latest postgraduate social and academic events.
The Doctoral College also offers training and support for your supervisory team, to make sure that your supervisors have the skills and knowledge to support you through your research degree from start to finish.
Find out more about what we do for our postgraduate research students
Find out about our training for postgraduate research supervisors
Read blog posts from the Doctoral College
doctoral-college@port.ac.uk
+44 (0) 23 9284 2984
4th Floor, St Andrew's Court
Portsmouth
Hampshire
PO1 2PR
Map - how to find us
17 July 2025
15 July 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/the-doctoral-college/festival-of-doctoral-research:
A vibrant event run by and for research students
Each year, the Doctoral College and the Super Rep Group at the University of Portsmouth host the Festival of Doctoral Research - a vibrant showcase of the innovative and impactful research carried out by postgraduate research students across the University.
The festival provides a platform for students to share their work, connect with others, and highlight the real-world impact of their research across a wide range of disciplines.
Held both in-person and live-streamed online, the festival highlights the work of students from a wide range of postgraduate research programmes, including MRes, MPhil, PhD, Professional Doctorate, and PhD by Publication.
The festival brings together the University’s research community to celebrate and share new ideas.
The programme typically features:
The event is also a space for networking, inspiration, and collaboration among postgraduate researchers, academics, and professional staff.
To find out more about the Festival of Doctoral Research please contact the Doctoral College team at docfest@port.ac.uk .
Stay connected with us on social media and join the conversation using the hashtag #UoPDocFest .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days/guided-campus-tours:
Hosted by student ambassadors, our guided tours last approximately one hour and are a great way to get a feel for the campus and check out some key locations that you will need to know for your future studies with us.
More dates will be released soon.
In the meantime, if you would like to visit the campus, please book onto an Undergraduate Open Day.
Morning Tour
10.30am: Welcome desk open for check-in located outside Ravelin Sports Centre ( PO1 2SE )
11.00am: General campus tour starts
AfternoonTour
3.30pm: Welcome desk open for check-in located outside Ravelin Sports Centre ( PO1 2SE )
4.00pm: General campus tour starts
Frequently asked questions
Yes, you can!
We appreciate that you are not the only one involved in making these important decisions for your future so please feel free to bring along family on the day.
In the booking form we will ask you how many additional people you want to bring.
The tour will be in person and will be led by our experienced student ambassadors, who are current students.
As well as your chance to see the campus, it is also your chance to ask as many questions as you like of the student ambassadors.
Whilst we will enter the foyer of some of the key buildings, such as the library and Ravelin Sports Centre, the tour will be predominantly based outside and will not take you into buildings.
During the tour, you will walk past our Halls of Residence, however, it is not possible to take you inside the halls and look at the rooms.
If you would like to do this, then we recommend attending one of our Open Days .
As we are a city campus, there is plenty of on-street parking available throughout the city.
Please take note of any pay and display signage.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses:
Check if you meet our English language criteria
Wherever you're from, you can take your pick of our Undergraduate or Postgraduate courses, so long as you can speak a good standard of English .
Each course has its own English language requirements, which can be found on individual course pages.
You can also search for English language requirements by country .
If you need to improve your English – or just want to further improve your language skills with us – here's how we can help.
You can join us for a pre-sessional English course before you start your degree, either on campus or through distance learning online.
Our English language courses are exempt from further IELTS testing, and guarantee you progression to a degree course.
If your English is good and you want to practice before you start university, sign up for one of our short programmes to refresh your language skills.
If your English needs more work, join one of our longer programmes lasting up to 20 weeks.
Once you've started your course, you can still get great support in English.
These weekly classes are available to all undergraduate and postgraduate students and can help you with writing essays, improving your grammar and developing your presentation and academic research skills.
You can also choose to do individual workshops, which will help you develop specific skills in data presentation, academic writing and professional communication.
Read more about our English for Academic Purposes courses .
If you don't currently meet the academic entry requirements for your chosen degree, you can choose from a variety of foundation courses at our pathway provider, International College Portsmouth (ICP) .
Studying a course in English in an English-speaking environment is an excellent way to prepare you for the world of international business.
And if you're interested in studying a business course, you can choose one that combines subject study with English language support.
By choosing one of these courses you will develop your competence in English language to at least IELTS level 6.5:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/courses-starting-in-january-and-february:
See our courses starting in January 2026
Our January 2026 courses are open to new applications.
We also offer many Undergraduate and Master's courses for students wishing to start their studies in September 2025.
You can find a list on our course pages .
There are a number of different research degrees available at Portsmouth too, in a range of different subjects – you can explore them on the university website .
Choose to live in our halls of residence or private accommodation and make Portsmouth your home.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/english-language-courses:
Find an accredited course to boost your skills
Whether you need to learn English before starting your degree or just practice your language skills, apply for one of our Pre-Sessional English (PSE) language courses.
(If you're looking for our English degree courses, visit our course search page ).
All our distance learning and on campus PSE courses are accredited by the British Council and BALEAP and are designed for university use.
You'll get excellent support and advice from experienced academic staff, international officers and Learning Development Tutors.
You can also get additional English language support while you're here.
*Subject to change
Students can only study distance learning or on-campus.
Students cannot start a course via distance learning and later join on-campus.
On-campus students are expected to have received their visas and be in class on the first day of their PSE course.
We offer our students a 5% discount on their PSE tuition fee if they pay in full at least six weeks before their PSE course begins.
Please refer to your offer email for more information.
If your degree offer requires you to meet a certain level of English language, you can apply for a Pre-Sessional English (PSE) language course with us.
Log into your applicant view, where you will see a button that looks like this:
You will arrive in the UK and study in class with your fellow students, with a dedicated tutor for 25 hours per week.
This programme is accredited by BALEAP and the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
Studying online from home you will engage with your classmates in weekly seminars, have weekly tutorials with your dedicated tutor and carry out work online using Moodle, our Virtual Learning Environment.
You will be expected to study for 25 hours per week.
Please note: the Pre-Sessional English administration team will place you on the appropriate programme based on your English language requirements.
If necessary, the Pre-Sessional administration team reserves the right to transfer students between PSE courses and delivery methods as necessary.
Students must be aged 18 years or over on the first day of their PSE course.
On-campus delivery
Students studying at our London Campus can study in-person PSE by applying here .
If you wish to study via Distance Learning, please apply here .
If you hold a degree offer from another institution that recognises our Pre-Sessional English course you can apply using the links below*.
Please upload a copy of your degree offer and English language test certificate when applying.
On-campus delivery Distance Learning delivery
*The application link will be for the 10-week Pre-Sessional English course.
This will be updated depending on your English language requirements when your application is processed.
It is the responsibility of the applicant to confirm their institution accepts the University of Portsmouth Pre-Sessional English course as proof of English language.
Details of English Language tests the University accepts can be found on this webpage .
Distance Learning PSE students
Students attending the distance learning PSE course do not need a CAS to study on the course.
Once you have completed your PSE course, you would  receive your CAS to apply for your visa and undertake your degree/masters at the University in the UK.
Students on this course must study from their home country and must not travel to the UK at any time during their PSE study.
On Campus PSE students
We can offer on-campus PSE students a Single-CAS for their PSE course, or a Joint-CAS which includes both your PSE course and your degree course.
Once all the above steps have been completed your CAS will be issued.
Once the above steps have been completed your CAS will be issued.
If you have a Single-CAS, you can apply for a visa extension whilst studying the PSE course, from within the UK, once  you have met all the offer conditions of your degree offer.
To be eligible to apply for a UKVI Student Route visa extension, you must prepare your visa extension before your PSE course is completed.
The visa extension cannot be submitted to the Home Office until you successfully complete your PSE course.
You must prepare the following before the PSE course ends:
*These requirements are set by UKVI and are subject to change.
For more information about the requirements to extend your visa please visit our Student Route visa pages .
The University has a team of dedicated International Student Advisers who can assist with any visa queries you have.
You will meet them during your PSE course.
If you have travelled to the UK on a visa other than that of a Student Route visa, or you choose not to apply for a visa extension, you may need to return to your home country after the PSE course to apply for a new visa prior to the start of your degree/master level course.
EU/EEA/Swiss Students: You will require a Student Route visa to study in the UK if you do not have pre-settled or settled status in the UK.
Once you have successfully completed a Pre-Sessional English course with us, you will be able to enrol on your chosen degree course immediately, or to defer your entry for up to two years.
Your results are applicable only to the University of Portsmouth.
I have improved my English a lot because of the PSE course, and I very much enjoyed the learning experience!
I am very grateful to my tutor who would patiently answer my questions.
Lu Di, MSc International Business and Management
You'll study in class or online for up to 25 hours per week.
You'll be in a class with a maximum of 20 students, although we aim to ensure that classes will not normally exceed 16 students.
Your weekly teaching will include:
You will have regular assessments, and you will get feedback from your tutor.
Your final assessments will include written coursework, oral presentations and examinations.
You will have access to our virtual learning environment, online resources, the University Library and regular tutorials with your tutor.
Our assessments are designed to test your reading, writing, speaking and listening skills.
You must pass all assessments, and show a good level of engagement and attendance to meet your degree language requirements and progress to your chosen degree.
All on campus Pre-Sessional students can apply for university accommodation in our halls of residence.
You'll live in self-contained, self-catered private flats, each of which has five standard bedrooms, a shower room (or en-suite bathroom depending on course and location) and kitchen.
Please refer to your Pre-Sessional English offer email for more information about booking accommodation during your studies.
If you'd prefer to find your own accommodation, our Student Housing team can advise you on private housing, find suitable landlords for you, and provide you with advice.
Email student.housing@port.ac.uk for more information.
All our buildings are easily accessible by all the main forms of travel, with 2 train stations located near campus.
All university buildings are in walking distance of each other too, and we run a free bus service for students to help you get around campus.
Learn more about our location and travel links .
We offer an airport pick-up service from London Heathrow and Gatwick airport.
You will be sent a link once an offer has been made to you.
Please email pse@port.ac.uk
I had such a great experience in the Pre-Sessional English course on not only academic skills but also in real life, which will definitely help me to have confidence for my future journey.
Ai Umeda, MSc Coastal and Marine Resource Management

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/english-language-support:
Study short modules alongside your degree
Academic English is a way of writing and speaking that is unfamiliar to most people, even to native speakers of English – but it's something you'll need to succeed in your studies.
Our events and learning programmes will help you develop your knowledge of Academic English in friendly, accessible settings during your studies.
Before starting your degree course, you can also learn about academic English by taking a Pre-Sessional English course.
Our In-Sessional English (ISE) programme is open to undergraduate students (BA, BSc) and postgraduate students (MA, MSc, PhD).
ISE offers a range of short modules available in both teaching blocks.
Available modules include:
Teaching is on-campus with some modules available online.
For more information and to register please visit the ISE Page .
Join us in Park Building Learning Resource Centre for cultural and language exchange activities.
1.00pm –2.00pm every Wednesday during term time.
All students welcome.
Our Global Office organises trips and parties throughout the year so you can visit other cities, meet English families and see our cultural landmarks.
Visit this page to see what events are coming up.
If you have questions about how we can help you improve your English, email ise@port.ac.uk or call +44 (0)23 9284 6190 .
Explore our support for students with English as an additional language.
In-session English - ISE - at the University of Portsmouth
What is In-Sessional English?
Designed to support students for whom English is an additional language, we offer a range of modules to help you develop your academic English language skills.
Available throughout the year in 5 week periods.
Free of charge for all students.
On-campus and online modules available.
Make friends from around the University.
Develop your skills in:
Experience expert teaching by the School of Languages and Applied Linguistics.
For more information and to register search MyPort for ‘ISE’ or email ise@port.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/bespoke-continuing-professional-development-cpd-programmes:
Develop your skills and learning
If you are a career professional from an international institution or organisation looking to develop your skills and learning, our Continuing Professional Development programmes are suited to you .
Designed and delivered by our Centre for Continuing Development (CCPD), these courses will give you the opportunity to develop your skills in a wide range of topics, while also experiencing English culture and the island city of Portsmouth.
You'll take part in classes and also spend time on excursions and day trips to local attractions, improving your professional knowledge, skills and experience, and enjoying leisure time exploring the UK's historic south coast and bustling capital city.
During your time with us,  you'll benefit from high-quality teaching from academic staff and dedicated support from our CCPD team.
Alongside time spent in the classroom with expert academics and fellow teachers from around the world, you'll experience British culture during day trips to locations such as London and Portsmouth Historic Dockyard, enjoying traditional British cuisine and heritage.
You'll also have free time to explore all Portsmouth has to offer, including its beaches, green spaces and cultural scene.
We'll arrange an arrival transfer from a London airport to your accommodation in Portsmouth and we'll return you at the end of your stay.
Accommodation in one of our university halls of residence is included in the price of your short course.
You'll have a single room with bed, desk, wardrobe and en-suite or shared facilities, depending on availability.
We may also be able to offer catered or self-catered accommodation too, again depending on availability.
University staff will be on hand in each halls of residence who will be able to help you with any questions or issues that you may have during your stay.
Our CPD courses with an English language component are accredited by the British Council.
We develop our CPD programmes based on your needs.
If you have a group of professionals interested in enjoying an educational experience in Portsmouth, we can design and provide a detailed and immersive programme based on the content you want.
We work closely with all University Faculties to develop our programmes, so we can cater to any subject matter and themes.
We can support any duration and work to suit your budget.
To be eligible to attend one of our programme, you must:
Centre for Continuing Professional Development School of Education, Languages and Linguistics University of Portsmouth Park Building Portsmouth PO1 2DZ +44 (0) 2392 84 6190

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/courses/summer-schools:
Combine specialist subject or English language study with a cultural break in Portsmouth
Our summer schools, delivered by our Centre for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD), provide educational holidays to help you develop skills, enable opportunities and enjoy our historic seaside city of Portsmouth.
These short courses are designed for students from international institutions to experience English culture and language while taking part in subject specific sessions.
You'll study in class, but also enjoy excursions and day trips to local attractions.
Our summer schools aim to improve your personal skills and experience, and give you an enjoyable study holiday.
As well as in-depth classroom learning, you'll experience British culture during excursions to locations such as London and Portsmouth Historic Dockyard, enjoying traditional British cuisine and history.
Outside of planned lessons and activities, you'll be able to experience all Portsmouth has to offer, including its bustling seaside and shopping centres.
We'll organise a transfer from a London airport to your accommodation in Portsmouth for when you arrive, and we'll return you at the end of your stay.
On our summer school courses, you'll enjoy the same high-quality teaching and learning that all our students experience.
Our courses are led by experts in their fields with years of experience, many of whom have had work published.
You'll be fully supported by our dedicated CCPD team before and during your summer school course.
They'll escort you during excursions and activities, provide advice and guidance and be on hand to answer any questions you may have during your time with us.
You'll stay in our halls of residence , included in the price of your summer school.
We can also book local hotels if preferred, depending on availability.
Catered or self-catered options are also available, depending on availability.
Each halls of residence has a reception where staff will be able to help you with any questions or issues that arise during your stay.
We develop our Summer Schools based on your needs.
If you have a group of students interested in enjoying an educational experience in Portsmouth, we can design and provide a fun and immersive programme based on the content you want.
To be eligible to attend one of our summer schools, you must:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country:
See our entry requirements and local contact details
Each year, students from more than 150 countries around the world choose to study with us.
Wherever in the world you may be – from Algeria to Zimbabwe, and all points in between – your journey to the University of Portsmouth starts here.
Ready to start exploring?
Find your region in the list below.
If your country is not listed, please get in touch .
Find out how to arrange a tour of our campus in Portsmouth, or see if we're attending an event in your region in person or virtually, where you can meet one of our representatives.
Brexit is a cause of concern for students, but we're as committed as ever to maintaining a multicultural staff and student body, and to our European collaborations.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/tuition-fees:
Tuition costs and different ways to pay
How much you pay in tuition fees as an international student depends on whether your course is based in classrooms, laboratories or both, and whether your course includes a placement year.
You can find out what you'll pay on your course page .
If you're an EU student, read our Tuition fees and scholarships for EU students page .
The following are typical tuition fee figures for international students for the next three years.
If you take a placement year, you only pay the nominal placement year fee.
For courses starting from September 2024/25, following a review of the international fee policy, the tuition fee will be fixed for the duration of that course at the University*.
Please note that conditions apply and the tuition fees may be subject to a maximum inflationary rise of 6% per annum.
*This does not apply to courses studied at our partner institutions where a different fee policy applies - please check with the partner institution for details.
If you are a new student (joining from October 2021 onwards) you can pay using your Applicant View - the online account that is set up when you apply to study with us.
Applicant View has several payment options.
You can pay online via Flywire.
If someone else is paying your fees you can send them the payment link found on your Applicant View.
The University is cashless.
Please do not bring cash to pay your fees as this will not be accepted.
The University of Portsmouth has officially partnered with Flywire to accept payments from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 130 currencies.
Millions of students and their parents world-wide trust Flywire to facilitate their education payments.
By making your payment using Flywire you can:
When you click through to pay your fees via Student View, and choose to pay via Flywire.
Please select the 'International Bank Transfer in GBP' option to get the preferential rate.
Pay via Flywire
There’s no doubt that at some point you’ve had to make an important payment through a digital platform.
And you would expect paying for things to be easy.
However many organisations have complex, time consuming and confusing payment experiences.
At flywire, we make the experience for you to pay simple, transparent and fast.
We help you find the best way to complete the most important and complex payments, all in one convenient platform.
Flywire simplifies complex bank transfers and helps you navigate international exchange rates.
We’re partnered with leading banks and financial institutions around the globe so transactions and seamless.
And we offer familiar and local payment options available to you, so you can choose the best method to complete your payment.
Your money will reach its destination quickly and securely.
We know people need to be able to navigate today’s globalised world without letting borders dictate the way they pay.
And we’re taking this on industry by industry to digitise the payment experience for organisations across education, healthcare, travel and B2B.
To help you make some of life’s most important payments - like tuition and medical care.
More than two thousand organisations trust flywire to securely process and deliver on their mission-critical payments today.
No matter where you are in the world, we’re here to deliver on the more important and complex payments.
Once you receive an offer from us, you can pay your fees in full if you wish.
You will need to pay a deposit to confirm your place.
The deposit will count towards your tuition fees.
You can use Applicant View to pay your deposit either online via Flywire.
Once you have paid your deposit and met the other conditions of your offer, we will send you a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) document .
You will need this for your visa .
The earliest you can receive your CAS is three months before the start of your course.
You do not have to pay a deposit if:
You may be able to get a refund of your deposit under certain circumstances.
Please check the tuition fee policy for further information.
If you need to apply for a refund please contact globaladmissions@port.ac.uk .
If you are staying in our halls of residence , you will also need to pay a £250 deposit.
You should not pay this until you have received your accommodation offer from our Student Housing Team.
Your accommodation offer will include instructions on how to pay.
When you leave the accommodation at the end of your contract, the deposit will be refunded into the account it came from.
Please note, your deposit will only be returned after all your fees have been paid, you have returned your keys and a satisfactory room check has been completed by your hall manager.
If you are late in paying accommodation fees, you will receive letters and emails requesting you pay the outstanding funds.
If you ignore these, you are at risk of being evicted from your halls of residence.
You can choose to pay your tuition fees in full or in instalments.
Any tuition fee payments made in advance, such as the deposit, will be deducted from your tuition fees.
PAYING IN FULL
One single payment paid during the registration process.
PAYING IN INSTALMENTS
Choose one of the following options:
Option A - Two instalments : 50% of your tuition fee is paid during registration, and the second 50% is paid at the start of your second term
Option B - Three instalments : 50% of your tuition fee during registration.
The remaining 50% is to be paid in three equal instalments every two months after that.
Option C - Six instalments : 50% of your tuition fee during registration.
The remaining 50% is to be paid in six equal instalments every month after that.
Instalment Payment Schedules:
Students starting a course in September:
Students starting a course in January:
Students starting a course in May:
These instalments will be applicable for each year of your course.
We will not send you an invoice for your fees, however once you have registered, you will be able to view the fees and payments online.
You will also be able to download and print your invoice if you wish.
If you receive an invoice claiming to be from the University, do not reply to it.
Instead, please forward it to income@port.ac.uk so we can check if it is valid.
If you do not pay your tuition fee by the due date of your invoice, we will send you a reminder.
If you fail to respond to reminder emails, a ‘Withdrawal of Service’ will be applied to your record.
This restricts your access to University services such as Moodle, the Library and Wi-Fi.
If you do not pay your tuition fee within four teaching weeks of losing your services, you will be excluded from your course.
If you are excluded, you are no longer considered a student of the University.
You will not be permitted to attend lectures, or continue to use the University services or facilities.
Money Laundering is a serious criminal offence and if the University is informed of, or suspects, fraudulent payment activity, it will take appropriate action in accordance with its Anti Money Laundering Policy.
If you or your appointed third party is found to have made a fake/fraudulent payment, the University will hold you responsible and take disciplinary actions against you which may result in your immediate de-registration from the course.
The University is not responsible for any financial loss to any student as a result of fraudulent activity.
University of Portsmouth Global
Due to the UK leaving the European Union as a result of Brexit, changes are being made to the tuition fees that EU, EEA and Swiss nationals will pay to study in the UK.
This page contains information about the fee changes.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/tuition-fees/tuition-fees-for-eu-students:
Check your eligibility and find out more
Since the UK's exit from the European Union, the University introduce the EU Scholarship.
This scholarship has now been extended to 2028/29 intakes.
This page contains information our EU Scholarship and what it means for you.
If, after reading the information, you have further questions, please get in touch with us .
If you're an eligible EU student assessed as a 'Home' or 'EU' fee-payer in the academic year 2024/25 or earlier, you’ll pay the same tuition fees as Home students throughout your course.
Following the UK's exit from the European Union, EU, EEA or Swiss nationals starting a course at a UK University are no longer be eligible for UK (Home) fee status and will usually be charged international tuition fees.
However, at the University of Portsmouth we're offering an EU Scholarship that reduces your tuition fees.
This scholarship has now been extended until the September 2028/29 intake (including January and May starts).
The tuition fee discount will apply to both the main Portsmouth and London campuses.
You must be an EU, EEA or Swiss National who has lived in the EU/EEA/Switzerland for at least the last 3 years.
Tuition fee fixed for the duration of the course.
You must be a National and domiciled in of one of the following countries: Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden; or be a National of one of these countries and domiciled in the UK for the last 3 years.
Please refer to individual course pages for Postgraduate Research course fees.
If you are studying a part time course, the discount will be pro-rata based on the course duration.
If you’ve been granted ‘settled’ status under the EU Settlement Scheme and have lived in the UK or Islands for at least the last 3 years, you may be eligible for Home fee status and financial support.
Check the UKCISA website or Gov.uk EU student guidance for the latest details.
If you are eligible for Home fee status, you will not receive the EU Scholarship as you will already pay UK fees.
If you are an EU, EEA or Swiss national starting a course at a UK university, you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit unless you are confirmed as 'Home' fee status.
If you are a recipient of an educational loan from your government, this can meet the deposit requirement by emailing the evidence to feeenquiries@port.ac.uk .
Find information about deposits and any other exemptions on our ‘Tuition fees for international students’ page .
The changes in student fees and funding will not affect you if you’re an EU, EEA or Swiss national benefitting from Citizens’ Rights under the EU Withdrawal Agreement, EEA EFTA Separation Agreement or Swiss Citizens’ Rights Agreement respectively.
The changes will also not affect you if you're an Irish national living in the UK or Ireland.
Your right to study and access benefits and services will be preserved on a reciprocal basis for UK and Irish nationals under the Common Travel Area arrangement .
In general, you’ll continue to be required to meet the same criteria as UK nationals to be eligible for UK fees and funding.
Information for EU, EEA and Swiss students about your student visa and joining us in the UK.
Find out about the different visa types available to support your study, including requirements from the UK government.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/funding:
Sponsorships and bursaries, scholarships and loans
You can get financial assistance from various sources to help fund your course.
Sources of financial help include sponsorship , bursaries, scholarships and loans.
You can also get a discount on your tuition fees by referring a friend to the University .
In some cases, you may have your study sponsored by a government organisation or large company.
This means that the organisation will pay your tuition fees (and sometimes your living costs), and may even be able to cover your deposit for you.
In some cases, you might receive this sponsorship in the form of a scholarship.
There will usually be some terms and conditions, such as you returning to your home country after the course, or working for a particular organisation for a fixed time.
You could get sponsorship for your undergraduate or postgraduate study, but you'll need to check the exact details with your sponsor.
Read more about sponsorship
Unlike a bursary, a scholarship is usually awarded to you on merit.
This means that they are normally awarded to students who may have a proven skill in academics or athletic ability, or to those who fit the specific criteria of the scholarship.
Many scholarships have rules associated with them, such as an expectation that you maintain a high grade throughout your studies, and you'll normally need to follow these rules to continue receiving aid.
Unlike a loan, you are not expected to pay scholarships or bursaries back.
Read more about scholarships
Student loans are normally designed to help students pay for educational expenses, like tuition fees, course materials and living expenses.
You'll be expected to pay these funds back at various repayment thresholds.
There are no UK Government-backed loans available for international students and the UK Government confirmed in 2019 that EU, EEA and Swiss nationals starting their course in the academic year 2021/22 and beyond will no longer be eligible for the tuition fee loan.
If you're an American national or permanently resident in the US, you can apply for a US Federal Loan if you've accepted an offer to study here.
EU, EEA and Swiss nationals who have been granted settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme will generally still be eligible for tuition fee and maintenance support if you have been ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands for at least 3 years.
For more details on eligibility and what support is available visit the Study in the UK: guidance for EU students pages on the Gov.UK website.
Students who are looking for postgraduate study and are part of the EU Settlement Scheme can check their eligibility at gov.uk/masters-loan .
If you're a current student or alumnus, you can get a reward for promoting the University of Portsmouth to your friends, family or colleagues.
You can earn up to £400 by recommending us to others.
Read more about referral awards
The Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre (ASDAC) arranges academic support for disabled students to help access their studies.
This is in the form of adjustments, assistive technology and access to academic support workers.
This does not include any direct financial contributions to the student.
If you have additional costs arising from a disability (e.g.
you require personal care support) it is important that you plan for these costs before coming to University.
If you have a sponsor you may wish to check with them if they offer assistance with these costs.
You may also be interested in checking your eligibility to apply for support from the Snowden Trust .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/funding/sponsorship:
How to apply for sponsorship and types of sponsors
You can get your tuition fees and other costs covered by a sponsor.
Sponsorships are open to undergraduate students and postgraduate students.
Sponsors are usually an employer, government body, charity or non-governmental organisation (NGO), not a relative who's paying your costs (unless they are paying through their business).
You'll only be classified as a sponsored student if the organisation sponsoring you pays fees directly to the University – if you're receiving direct payment, you're still classed as a self-paying student.
As an international sponsored student, you're not eligible for any other tuition fee discounts.
Please be aware that there are UKVI conditions that determine who the University can accept as a valid sponsor.
To be acceptable, sponsorship must be granted from one of the following:
If your fees are being covered by an organisation that does not meet one of the above conditions, you will remain a self-paying student.
You can’t apply directly to us for sponsorship – instead, you'll need to arrange this with your sponsor first.
For example, if the company you work for is willing to sponsor your studies, you'll need to make arrangements with them first, and your sponsor must then let us know that they're planning to pay your fees.
Your sponsor would need to provide an official company headed document outlining the fees that they would be covering.
The document must contain the following information:
The completed form can be uploaded via the ‘My Finance’ – ‘Manage Sponsors’ section of your Student View .
Alternatively, this can be emailed to us at feeenquiries@port.ac.uk if being sent directly from the sponsor.
There are a few things that your sponsor will need to be aware of.
Sponsored students are not eligible for discounts/scholarships as these only apply to self-paying students.
Please therefore ensure the sponsor is awarding funding based on the full fee, and not a discounted value.
If the discounted value is used, any remainder will be invoiced to the student.
Sponsorship documentation can cover more than one academic year, although invoices are only raised each year of a student’s studies.
A sponsor must pay the tuition fees in full within 30 days of the date they receive an invoice from us.
Tuition fees are subject to annual increase, so future year fees may not be known if the course is more than one year in duration.
If sponsorship documentation covers more than one year of studies, the information populated on the form must apply for the full duration.
If the sponsorship contribution is subject to change each year, separate documentation should be provided for each year.
If your sponsor can't pay invoices without a purchase order number, the official Letter of Sponsorship we receive must reference this.
A student’s progress could be interrupted or withdrawn if a purchase order number has not been quoted and our invoice is returned unpaid.
If the documentation we receive is incomplete or doesn't contain enough information, we won't be able to accept it and you'll need to pay the full tuition fee amount.
The sponsorship documentation we receive confirms your sponsor’s contractual obligation to pay fees for you for the period stated, even if you withdraw from your course or you leave your employment.
We recommend that your sponsor forms their own agreement with you to cover your obligation to them if you decide to leave the course or your employment.
If your sponsor wishes to update existing funding at any point during your studies, they should contact us at feeenquiries@port.ac.uk with the details, so we can advise further.
Learn more about sponsorships, scholarships and loans for students applying from outside of the UK.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/funding/scholarships:
Check available scholarships and your eligibility
As an international or EU student at Portsmouth, you can access many scholarships.
Your eligibility for these scholarships varies depending on which course you're studying, where you're from and your academic achievement to date.
Here's a summary of the scholarships you can access as an international student if you choose to start studying with us from September 2025 or January 2026.
If you're a home (UK) student, see our information about scholarships and bursaries for undergraduate (Bachelor's) and postgraduate taught (Master's) UK students.
From January 2025 entry, eligible applicants will be considered for the Chancellor's Global Academic Merit Scholarship.
This scholarship will take the form of a £5,000 fee reduction that will apply to your first year of study.
This scholarship is merit-based and applicants will need to have applied and accepted their academic offer by the given deadline.
To be considered, applicants will also need to complete this form as part of their application.
Applications will then be considered by the University's scholarship panel and the successful candidates will be contacted by email to confirm their status shortly after the submission.
To be eligible for this scholarship you must be a self-funded international student.
Only applicants who have been assessed as an overseas student for tuition fee purposes can access this scholarship.
For September 2025 entry, eligible students will be able to receive the Vice Chancellor's Global Development Scholarship.
This scholarship will take the form of a £2,500 fee reduction that will apply to your first year of study.
If you are from one of the countries below, you will be eligible for this award:
Following the UK's exit from the European Union, if you're an EU, EEA or Swiss national, starting a course at a UK University, you will no longer be eligible for the same fees as UK students.
You'll pay the same fees as an international student.
For September 2025, at the University of Portsmouth an EU Scholarship will be applied to your fees reducing them to the same amount as UK students.
To be eligible for an EU Scholarship you need to be an EU, EEA or Swiss national and resident.
The scholarship will apply to new undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research students for the following intakes: September and January 2025/26.
For more information, and Terms and Conditions for this scholarship, please visit our EU Scholarships webpage .
The Faculty of Science and Health recognises the significant cost for international students to study overseas.
To support the best and brightest students with their academic journey at the University of Portsmouth, we are pleased to announce the Faculty of Science and Health Global Postgraduate Taught Scholarship for 2025/26.
This scholarship will take the form of a £2000 fee reduction that will apply for the first year of study and can be combined with the VC Global Development Scholarship where terms and conditions allow.
The scholarship will be offered in two phases, once for the September and also for the January intake.
The present advertised scholarship is for application into the January 2026 intakes.
This scholarship is for self-funded, international students wishing to study an on campus full time, postgraduate taught course within the Faculty of Science and Health.
A list of eligible courses is available under the terms and conditions below:
To apply, you will need to complete this form as part of the application process.
The Advanced Diploma Scholarship from the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) is worth £4,000.
You can apply for this scholarship if you meet the following conditions:
You must apply for this scholarship before you start your course.
Applications are open from 15 May 2025 – 15 June 2025 for September entry.
If your application is successful, we’ll assess your application and grades against other applications to decide the scholarship amount you’ll be granted.
Your scholarship amount will be automatically discounted from your tuition fee at the start of your course.
If you're seeking asylum and studying an undergraduate (Bachelor's) degree, you could get a Sanctuary Scholarship to cover all of your undergraduate tuition fees.
You'll also get ongoing personal and financial support during your course so you can concentrate on your studies.
There's one Sanctuary Scholarship available each year.
It isn't based on your income and you don't need to pay it back whilst you're ineligible for UK Government financial support.
Find out more about the Sanctuary Scholarship here.
Chevening is the UK Government’s international awards scheme aimed at developing global leaders.
Funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations, Chevening offers an opportunity for future leaders and influencers from all over the world to develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships with the UK.
These highly coveted scholarships are awarded to outstanding scholars with leadership potential.
Awards are typically for a 1-year Master’s degree in any subject.
We've welcomed many Chevening scholars to Portsmouth over the years – could you be the next one?
To apply for a Chevening scholarship you must have:
For more information about Chevening, please visit chevening.org .
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) gives scholarships to students from the Commonwealth.
These scholarships aim to attract outstanding talent to British universities and to combine sustainable development with the UK national interest.
Scholarships reward merit and promote equity, inclusion and access to education, especially to students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Visit the Commonwealth Scholarships website to find out which scholarships are open to you and for information about how to apply.
There are many other external scholarships from various sources you may be eligible for.
It's a good idea to do your own research to find out about scholarships that are available for students from your region, but we've listed a few below.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/funding/american-loans:
Loans available to students from the USA
We're an eligible Federal Loan institution and our school code is G21159.
The William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program offers low-interest direct loans to eligible students to help cover costs while studying in the UK.
If you're eligible, you'll borrow directly from the US Department of Education.
You can choose from the following types of loan.
If you're an undergraduate student with financial need, you can apply for a subsidised loan.
We'll review the results of your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and determine the amount you can borrow.
You're not charged interest while you're in school at least half-time and during grace periods and deferment periods.
The US Department of Education pays the interest during these times.
If you're an undergraduate or postgraduate student, you can access this loan without demonstrating financial need.
We'll determine the amount you can borrow.
Interest accrues (accumulates) on an unsubsidised loan from the time it’s first paid out.
You can pay the interest while you're at University and during grace periods and deferment or forbearance periods, or you can allow it to accrue and be capitalised (that is, added to the principal amount of your loan).
If you choose not to pay the interest as it accrues, this will increase the total amount you repay because you'll be charged interest on a higher principal amount.
If you're a parent of a dependent undergraduate student, you may be eligible for this loan to help pay your child's education expenses.
If your parents aren't eligible for a PLUS loan, you may be eligible for additional unsubsidised loans.
Interest is charged during all periods.
If you're a postgraduate student, you can apply for this unsubsidised loan to help cover your education expenses.
You won't be eligible for any of the above loans if you study on the following types of course:
To apply for one of these direct loans:
If you want to join us for the 2021/22 academic year, you can apply for federal aid between 1 January 2021 and 30 June 2022, but we recommend you apply as soon as you can.
You'll need to apply for these loans on an annual basis.
If we receive your application within a month of your course start date, we can't guarantee to process it in time for the start of the course or to provide the required documentation for your visa.
See below for the amount you can borrow each year for each type of loan, plus the total aggregate limit, and any loan fee and interest rates for each loan.
These are correct as of 1 October 2021.
The details for the loan differ whether you're classified as a dependent or independent, and on what kind of course you're studying.
Find out more at the Federal Student Aid site .
If you're on an undergraduate course as a dependent , the following details apply.
If you're on an undergraduate course as an independent , the following details apply.
If you're a graduate or a professional, the following details apply.
*The graduate aggregate limit includes all federal loans received for undergraduate study.
**Parent/Grad PLUS Loans are meant to cover any remaining costs of attendance you have, up to the cost of attendance set by the University.
Private loans are also available for this reason.
(U.S.
DoE requirement): The cost of attendance includes tuition fees and living costs and is set by the University.
Below is a guide to the cost of attendance you can expect for our University for the 2021/22 academic year.
For undergraduates, the cost of attendance is based on 37 weeks of study.
For postgraduates, the cost of attendance is based on 49 weeks of study.
We request loans are paid in 2 instalments.
The first payment will be requested to be available when you have registered for the start of the relevant academic year.
The second instalment will be available at the start of teaching block two for Undergraduate students, and at the academic year mid-point for postgraduate students.
If you apply late, your first instalment may not be available for the start of the year.
You'll need to complete Entrance Counselling to receive the first payment and Exit Counselling to receive the last.
If you've received a direct loan, you'll start repaying this after you graduate, leave university, or drop below half-time enrolment.
You'll have a 6-month grace period before you need to begin payment.
If you've received a Direct Plus loan, this will enter repayment once you've received it.
If your parents have applied for a Parent PLUS Loan, they can contact their loan servicer to request a deferment while you're enrolled at least half time and for an additional 6 months after you cease to be enrolled at least half time.
If you've received a Grad Plus loan, your loan will be placed into deferment while you're enrolled at least half time and for an additional 6 months after you cease to be enrolled at least half time.
If your loan is deferred, interest will accrue on the loan during the deferment.
You may choose to pay the accrued interest or allow the interest to capitalise when the deferment period ends.
See full details of repayment plans
You'll need to meet certain criteria to make sure you remain eligible to continue receiving federal aid.
Firstly, you must remain in Portsmouth for the full duration of your course (excluding vacations), including any dissertation period.
Any interruption in studies or short term leave of absence must be approved by the Direct Loan Team prior to any change in your registration status being permitted.
You'll also need to continue to meet basic eligibility criteria as listed on the Federal Student Aid website .
You must also progress satisfactorily towards completion of your chosen academic programme.
We classify satisfactory academic progress as a minimum of 40% pass, but exceptions may apply to some courses, including those with accreditation.
This progress will be checked before any loan funds are released to you.
The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is specific for the year you are applying for aid, so you must complete a new FAFSA for each year of study.
See full details on eligibility
If you want to suspend your studies or take a leave of absence, you're entitled to do so if this is approved by the head of your department or school.
However, this will affect your eligibility for federal aid.
Please read our R2T4 guidance for further information.
Contact us to discuss this.
If you withdraw at any time, your fees will be calculated according to payment liability periods in accordance with the University’s tuition fee policy .
If you withdraw within the first 60% of any study period (payment liability period), we'll return any unearned aid funds to the Department of Education in accordance with their repayment policy on withdrawals and suspensions.
Any ‘unearned’ aid (i.e.
any funds you aren't entitled to, due to an early withdrawal) will be deducted from any possible refund that would have been paid to you in accordance with the University’s refund policy.
Should the ‘unearned’ aid amount be more than you were due to be refunded, this could result in additional costs being charged to you.
Please note the US Department of Education’s repayment policy on withdrawals and suspensions differs from the University’s tuition fee policy.
Both policies will be taken into account should you withdraw.
You can also apply for a private loan to help cover the remainder of your cost of attendance.
You should do your own research to find loan providers.
We believe that the only lender working with schools outside of the USA is the Smart Loan from Sallie Mae.
To apply for a Smart Loan, and find details of repayment options and interest rates, please visit Sallie Mae
Once you've applied online, please send a signed self-certification form to the lender, and your e-signed Promissory Note to directloan@port.ac.uk , so we can approve the loan if applicable.
If you have further enquiries regarding the Direct Loan Program, please contact Student Administration Services at directloan@port.ac.uk or on +44 (0)23 9284 7745 .
Please note: If you'll be receiving loan funds to cover your living expenses, remember you won't receive your first payment until around the first day of the start of your course.
You must make sure you have enough money from when you arrive in the UK until this date.
Explore all the key pieces of consumer information relating to the US loans scheme in the table below.
The University’s Admissions Policy details the arrangements for the admission of students to our courses.
The University expects any of its employees who have responsibilities with respect to U.S.
loans to abide by a code of conduct, which prohibits:
* If you are applying for a private U.S.
student loan the University will work with, in most cases, whichever private lender you decide to use, if they are willing to work with us.
Please note that we are only aware of one lender currently offering such loans, which is Sallie Mae .
Sallie Mae is not a preferred lender and this does not represent a preferred lender arrangement.
Information on the University’s completion/graduation and transfer-out rates is available from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) .
The University’s Copyright Policy aims to inform all members of the University staff and students of acceptable use of third party copyright materials.
For information on crime rates in the local area please refer to POLICE.UK .
The University’s Data Protection Statement for students explains how the personal – and sensitive personal data collected by the University may be used, including some examples of processing.
In the UK, the power to award degrees is regulated by law and the Privy Council is responsible for the granting of degree awarding powers and University titles.
The University’s power to award degrees derives from Section 214 of the Education Reform Act 1988.
The University of Portsmouth is one of the degree-awarding bodies recognised under that Act.
For the current list of recognised bodies please refer to GOV.UK .
The University seeks to protect students against the risks arising from substance misuse.
For further information please refer to the University’s Student Drugs and Alcohol Policy .
The University actively seeks to create and maintain an environment safe from the risks of fire – in compliance with all relevant legislation, including
For further information, please email the Health & Safety team at hsservicedesk@port.ac.uk .
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 ("the Act") gives a general right of access to all types of recorded information held by public authorities.
For further information please refer to our Freedom of Information pages .
For information on annual loan amounts, loan terms, and sample repayment schedules, please refer to the U.S.
Department of Education’s Federal Student Aid website.
The University’s Major Incident Action Plan defines the procedures to be followed by staff and students when confronted by a serious incident such as the disappearance of a student.
If a Direct Loan is taken out by a student at the University we will submit the details to the National Student Loan Database System (NSLDS),and this data will be accessible to guarantee agencies, lenders and schools determined to be authorised users of the data system.
For further information on the National Student Loan Database System please refer to NSLDS .
The HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey is available from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) .
The timeframes and methodology associated with this survey are also explained on this website.
For undergraduate courses, you can also view useful statistics from the HESA survey and National Student Survey via the Key Information Sets available through Discover Uni .
Information on the University’s retention rate is available from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) .
The University’s Safeguarding Policy: Children and Vulnerable Adults policy seeks to support activities involving children, young people, and vulnerable adults, and to offer assurances to both staff, students, volunteers and visitors that, through its implementation, the University seeks to protect them and to keep them safe from harm when in contact with University students and staff.
Students have an obligation of Satisfactory Academic Progression (SAP) within the Federal Aid program – for further information, please refer to the University’s Federal Aid - Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) guidance.
The University is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all students.
No student will be excluded from entry to any programme as a result of discrimination on the grounds of disability.
For information on services and facilities for students with disabilities, please refer to our support for disabled students page.
The University is committed to delivering a high-quality student experience that aims to meet and exceed student expectations.
For further information please refer to the University’s Student Charter page.
The University’s Code of Student Behaviour outlines acceptable behaviour of students of the University, both on and off campus, in order to secure the proper working of the University.
Ensuring an excellent student experience is one of the headline aims of the University.
A major part of that experience relates to how we communicate to and with our students.
For further information please refer to the University’s Student Voice Policy .
The Student Complaint procedure explains both the University’s internal informal and formal mechanisms, and the external independent Ombudsman’s procedure, for the resolution of complaints.
Information about any required and recommended textbooks for your course will be provided to you by your department.
Should you require specific information about textbooks, please contact the relevant department for advice.
For information regarding student health and well-being, including vaccination information, please refer to the health and well-being icon on our MyPort.
If a student who receives Title IV funding withdraws, interrupts for more than 180 days, or drops below half time attendance the University will follow the requirements of returning funds laid down by the U.S.
Department of Education.
For further information please refer to the University’s Return of Title IV Funds guidance.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/funding/referral-awards:
Know someone who wants to study with us?
Refer them and be rewarded
We want to reward you for promoting the University of Portsmouth to your friends, family and colleagues.
If you are a current student or alumni, you can earn up to £400 for referring someone to study with us, and they go on to join us.
Here are your two Referral Award options, and advice on how to make them.
You can earn £400 if you refer an international student to the University and their application results in a registration.
To be eligible for the award:
You can earn £200 if you refer an EU student to the University and their application results in a registration.
The person you refer will need to be a direct applicant to us, as UCAS applicants and applicants who are referred by education agents are not eligible.
For courses starting in September, award claims will be verified from November.
For January starters, award claims will be verified from March.
For May starters, award claims will be verified from June.
If you have any questions about The Referral Award Scheme , please contact: agentcommission@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/how-to-apply:
The application process and documents required
When you apply as an international student, you'll follow the same process as UK students, but there are a few extra things you'll need to know.
Applicants from some countries may have to meet individual requirements – to see what these are, visit your country page .
You need a sufficient level of English to contribute in classes and lectures, and to complete assignments.
The level of English you need depends on the course you want to study – you can find these requirements on each course page .
Before we confirm your place, you must demonstrate you meet the English language requirements for your course by supplying the results of an English language test we accept .
If you don’t meet the English language requirements for this course when you apply, you can achieve the level you need by successfully completing a pre-sessional English programme with us before you start your course.
As you'll probably know already, you'll need a visa to study in the UK, and you'll need an offer of a place with us before you can apply for your visa, so you should apply for a course first.
You can read more about this on our Visas page .
When you apply to join us, we'll need to see the following documents:
Once we receive your application, we may ask you for further information.
We will then either make you an offer or suggest alternatives if your application is unsuccessful.
If you receive an offer from us, you've received an offer from us, there's plenty more to think about.
Find out about preparing for being a student in the UK .
We recommend paying the deposit and meeting conditions as soon as you receive the offer to avoid potential delays with CAS and Visa processes.
Please refer to our step-by-step guide for instructions on completing CAS Shield and details on payment methods.
Make sure you allow sufficient time for your deposit payment to clear.
Application Deadlines
If you choose to apply via an education agent, the British Council have created this useful guide to help you with your decision.
Choosing an education agent
The University of Portsmouth treats admissions fraud very seriously.
Unfortunately, we occasionally receive applications with false or fabricated academic documents or proof of English language ability; fake references; plagiarised personal statements; or other false or misleading information.
It is the responsibility of all applicants to ensure that everything that is submitted as part of, or in support of, their application, is correct in all respects.
All application documents, supporting evidence and related information submitted by an applicant (or on their behalf) are checked and verified to ensure they are genuine.
This will normally be before an offer is made.
In some circumstances, documents or evidence are delayed beyond the offer stage, in which case they are checked as soon as they are submitted.
If the University suspects that false documents, evidence or information has been submitted, we will investigate and, as appropriate, take robust action against applicants in accordance with our policies.
In cases of admissions fraud, we will reject the application and any others made by the same person.
Applicants who are rejected due to a fraudulent, non-genuine or negligent application will not be entitled to a refund of their deposits.
If admissions fraud is discovered after the individual has enrolled at the University, this will normally result in the termination of the individual’s studies.
Any deposits or tuition fees paid will not be refunded.
Where appropriate, the University may refer cases of admissions fraud to the authorities, including the police and UKVI, for review.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/how-to-apply/cas-shield:
A step-by-step guide for international offer holders
Once you receive a conditional offer, you will be invited by email to register with our CAS Shield system.
Please note that CAS Shield is only for applicants who require a Student Route visa to study at the University.
If you hold a UK or Irish passport or a valid UK residence permit that allows you to study in the UK, please send a copy of your passport or a share code to: ukvi-student-compliance@port.ac.uk .
You will not need to complete CAS Shield.
Step 1 : Log in to CAS Shield using the link sent to you in the Welcome email.
Step 2 : Complete each section of CAS Shield carefully and upload the required documents.
Step 3 : Complete financial checks to show you have sufficient funding for your studies.
Step 4 : You may need to record a pre-CAS credibility interview, where we will ask you about your decision to study with us.
Step 5 : Depending on your responses, additional information and documents, including financial documents may be requested.
Please provide this as soon as possible.
Step 6 : When all offer conditions have been met and the information completed in CAS Shield has been reviewed, we will issue a CAS provided that you meet the eligibility requirements for the University to sponsor your Student Visa.
Step 7 : Once you have received your CAS, you can prepare for your visa application.
Step 8 : Update the University on your visa and accommodation status in CAS Shield.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/meet-us:
Visit our campus or meet us in your country
If you're interested in studying at the University of Portsmouth, we'd love to meet you.
You can speak to us directly at hundreds of events in person and virtually, from international education and virtual fairs to exclusive presentations and discussions.
These events are a great opportunity for you to discuss your application, get information about the city of Portsmouth and ask your questions.
We have a network of trusted agents in over 90 countries across the world.
Our Global Officers specialise in different areas, so you can be confident they understand the needs of students from your region.
At some events, you can also speak to highly skilled academic staff and experts in your chosen field of study.
Make sure to follow our UoP Global Instagram , Facebook and Twitter accounts for more insight into life at the University of Portsmouth.
We don't have any current events planned, but we do plan regular events so check back here often for more information.
You can also contact us , or speak to an agent in your region for more assistance.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/english-language-requirements:
Guidance on English language tests
Our courses are delivered in English.
You need a sufficient level of English to complete your course and take part in classes and discussions, and submit assessments such as coursework and examinations..
You need to demonstrate your English language level by taking an approved English language test and sending us your results.
Different courses need different levels of English, usually measured on the International English Language Test System (IELTS).
You can see specific course requirements on the relevant course page .
International students who need to obtain a UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) Student Route Visa are required to meet the English Language requirements as outlined in the University's English Language Policy for UKVI students .
Some countries are exempt from meeting these English language requirements.
The list of exempt countries is below.
If you need to improve your English before your course starts, you can join one of our Pre-Sessional English programmes .
Many English tests are available, however you need to take one of the tests we recognise to join us.
The University applies a two-year validity at the point of the course start date for all Secure English Language Tests (SELTs) as determined by the Home Office, and to English tests that are not recognised as SELTs.
The current list of approved alternative English Language tests is below.
Please note that an additional English language interview may be required for acceptance of some English Language tests.
Due to accreditation requirements, some courses have restrictions on accepted English language.
The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) measures the language proficiency of people who want to study or work where English is used as a language of communication.
It uses a 9-band scale to clearly identify levels of proficiency, from non-user (band score 1) through to expert (band score 9).
For entry to University programmes you would be required to take the Academic IELTS test.
The University accepts IELTS One Skill Retake.
The University does not accept IELTS Academic Online or IELTS General Training.
If you want to take a pre-sessional English course or a Foundation course, you must take your IELTS test at an approved UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) test centre.
You can book your IELTS test for UK Visas and Immigration here.
Generally, you need to have the following scores for different course levels:
If you are interested in a Foundation or pathway course you need a minimum of IELTS band 5.5, with no component below 5.5.
For most of our Bachelor's degrees, you need a minimum of IELTS band 6.0, with no component below 5.5.
Some courses, especially those with a high level of discussion and writing, require higher scores.
You can see course-specific details on the individual course pages .
For most of our Master's degrees, you need a minimum of IELTS band 6.5–7.0, with no component below 6.0.
Some courses and PhDs require higher scores.
IELTS scores 5.0–6.5 are equivalent to a Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) level of B2, and a score of 7.0 is equivalent to a CEFR level of C1.
The TOEFL iBT® (Internet-based test), delivered via the Internet, measures your ability to use and understand English at university level.
It also evaluates how well you combine your reading, listening, speaking and writing skills to perform academic tasks.
The University of Portsmouth also accepts valid and verifiable TOEFL MyBest Scores.
As part of this test, you'll be asked for your institution choice to be a score recipient.
Quote "3234" in this section to have your TOEFL score sent directly to us by the Educational Testing Service.
If you're interested in a Foundation or pathway course you need a score of 72 with a minimum of:
Remember, if you're joining us on a Foundation or pre-sessional English course, you must take an approved UK Visas and Immigration test as well.
The TOEFL is not recognised by UKVI.
For most of our Bachelor's degrees, you need a score of 79 with a minimum of:
You can see course-specific details on the individual course pages.
For most of our Master's degrees, you need a score of 91 with a minimum of:
Please find more details of this test including available locations and how to register on the ETS website .
The required score on this test is the same as usual – please find details of the required TOEFL score in the section above.
The Pearson Test of English is another computer based test.
It's based on real-life English skills you need to communicate effectively, using academically relevant tasks and measuring skills in an integrated way.
Please make sure you nominate University of Portsmouth to view your certificate online.
This lets our admissions team verify your results.
If you are interested in a Foundation for September 2025 entry, or pathway, course you need at least 59 points, with a minimum of 59 in each component.
PTE is recognised by the UKVI and so can be used if you're joining us on a Foundation or pre-sessional English course.
For most of our Bachelor's degrees September 2025 entry, you need at least 62 points, with a minimum of 59 in each component.
For most of our Master's degrees September 2025 entry, you need at least 65 points, with a minimum of 62 in each component.
The PTE Academic Online is not accepted.
Trinity College London provides Secure English Language Tests (SELTs) in 10 locations across the UK.
These tests are approved for applications to UKVI for visas, British Citizenship and Leave to Remain.
You need an Integrated Skills in English (ISE) Level III with a pass in all 4 components to take one of our undergraduate or postgraduate courses.
C1 Advanced, formerly known as Cambridge English: Advanced (CAE), is a Cambridge English Qualification .
It's an in-depth, high-level qualification that shows you have the language skills that universities are looking for.
If you're interested in a Foundation, or pathway, course you need an overall score of 162 with no component score less than 162.
For most of our Bachelor's degrees, you need an overall score of 169 with no component score less than 162.
For most of our Master's degrees, you need an overall score of 176 with no component score less than 169.
Please see the Duolingo website for score equivalencies.
Please note you will need to share your Duolingo results with the University.
Offer conditions will be updated following a credibility interview or interview with one of the University of Portsmouth recruitment team.
The Certificate of Proficiency (ECPE) constitutes an official certification of knowledge of the English language at the C2 level, as outlined by the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR).
It is awarded by the University of Michigan, one of the leading US Universities in the field of linguistic research, with lengthy experience in establishing and developing a broad range of English language examinations.
The ECPE is officially recognised in Greece by the state (Supreme Council for Civil Personnel Selection) and the private sector as a C2 level certification of English language competence.
It is also recognised in several countries and can be used for academic and professional purposes.
Generally, you need to have an average score of 750 pass (P) or higher for all courses.
Please note only the Secure English Language Test centre (SELT) exams can be accepted.
The LanguageCert online version is not accepted.
LanguageCert International ESOL is accepted until April 1 2024.
LanguageCert International ESOL is accepted up until April 1 2024.
LanguageCert offers UK Home Office approved SELT exams for UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) worldwide, covering all visa type requirements.
The benchmark for entry is:
LanguageCert Academic offers UK Home Office approved SELT exams for UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) worldwide, covering all visa type requirements.
LanguageCert Academic exams are mapped to the Common European Framework for Languages (CEFR) which reports scores on a 0-100 scale.
LanguageCert Academic assesses 4 skills (Listening, Reading, Writing, and Speaking) and is accepted for work and study visas, available at the following CEFR levels: B1, B2, C1, C2.
To take this English Language Test, please register on the Oxford ELLT website .
See the E LLT website for score equivalencies.
Oxford ELLT are now offering an exclusive University of Portsmouth discount of 10%.
Please visit the website and enter the discount code.
Discount code: UOP10 (10% discount)
Skills for English is a Secure English Language Qualification (SELT), approved by the UK Home Office, that’s assured by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) and delivered via a network of test centres in over 120 countries by PSI Services.
For entry to the University of Portsmouth, requirements on Skills for English SELT at all of the four skills comprise:
For more information about what’s on the Skills for English tests, see the Skills for English website.
If you’d like to book a Skills for English SELT test, visit the Book my skills for English website.
We are currently offering an exclusive discount which gives students 10% off B1 and B2 tests and 33% off C1 tests.
Visit the Skills for English website for more information.
Minimum achievement of Band 8 overall, with no component (Listening, Reading, Writing, Speaking) below Band 8.
An interview is also required to verify the scores/qualification.
The University of Portsmouth reserves the right to request further evidence of English language proficiency or conduct additional applicant checks at any stage of the application process.
If you are a national of, or have completed a degree-level qualification from one of the countries listed below, as recognised by UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI), you may be exempt from the UK Visa and Immigration English language requirements.
You will still need to provide acceptable evidence of English language proficiency to meet the academic requirements for your course.
If you are a National of Canada, you will need to provide evidence of English Language proficiency to meet the academic requirements of your course.
In addition to this, if you hold a Bachelor Degree from the UK or one of the above countries and this course was delivered on campus, this may meet the English Language requirement.
We also accept other standard English tests and qualifications, as long as they meet the minimum requirements of your course.
You can find these listed below.
The relevant qualifications are also mentioned on the individual country page .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/order-an-international-prospectus:
Get your copy of our digital international prospectus
Our website has all the information you need about studying and living in Portsmouth.
But if you download our prospectus, you can print it out, show it to friends and family and read it offline.
When you request a prospectus, you'll also be sent a copy of our International Student Guide, which includes exciting information about life as a student in Portsmouth, advice and support available and opportunities to improve your career prospects while you study.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/international-college-portsmouth:
Your pathway to the University of Portsmouth
Opened in 2009, International College Portsmouth (ICP) offers a range of pathways to a very broad range of University of Portsmouth degrees in an environment that encourages you to achieve excellence in your studies.
ICP is part of the Navitas Group, an internationally recognised education provider with the knowledge and resources of staff in more than 120 colleges and campuses worldwide.
As an ICP student, you will be based at the heart of our city centre campus and will have access to all facilities, clubs and societies at the University of Portsmouth throughout your studies.
You can choose to start in September, January/March or May/June.
Our dedicated team will be your first point of call throughout your studies at ICP.
The College services team monitors students closely to ensure early intervention where required (Academics, Attendance, Behaviour, Under 18’s and wellbeing).
They run many enrichment activities such as Awards Evenings, Global weeks, offsite and onsite activities and welfare weeks to make every student feel welcomed.
Our team can provide one to one assessment support for students who need it.
Academic Workshops are available for free for students who require it in English Language (Grammar, Speaking, Writing), Exam skills, Lab reports, Math’s booster, Research and Referencing.
Our Predicted Grades programme provides early intervention and tailored support.
With undergraduate and postgraduate pathways available within all University of Portsmouth’s Faculties, you can choose the course that is best for you.
3 intakes are available for each Undergraduate and postgraduate pathways:
“My favourite part of studying at ICP is the great experience I had meeting other international students and making friends.
The college always provided the support and needed, and helped me grow and achieve my goals.”
Ruhi Sibtain Remtulla, Tanzania
“Portsmouth is where you want to be.
You have got the whole city as your campus.
When you apply to ICP, you will receive all the support you need.
The staff are very friendly, they care about your welfare and wellbeing, and are always available to listen to you.
The community in Portsmouth feels like a family, especially in ICP, so that is exactly where you want to be!”
Abdulaziz Alshaheen, Kuwait
International College Portsmouth

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/london-pathways:
with pathway courses
We are the University of Portsmouth London, Pathway College (LPC) and we offer pathway courses into UoPL degrees.
Based in the heart of London university campus, we are proud to offer both undergraduate and postgraduate pathway and Pre Sessional English courses to students joining us from all over the world.
Our personalised academic and pastoral support, with a focus on wellbeing and resilience, will enhance every student’s experience and outcomes moving on to the next stage of their learning journey at the University of Portsmouth London.
London Pathway College
We are based in the heart of London.
A campus-based college, LPC is part of the University of Portsmouth London city centre campus.
It is also just a three-minute walk from the Victoria Line and Walthamstow Central railway station and within easy reach of Buckingham Palace, Westminster .
We offer three intakes: September, January or June.
This means you have more options when making your decision about when to start your university journey.
With three start dates to choose from, you are able to select a time that is best suited to your needs, giving you the opportunity to join a pathway ahead of others who use the traditional UK entry system.
We offer pathways to a wide range of different University of Portsmouth London degree programmes, meaning you can choose the course that is best for you.
9 out of 10 University of Portsmouth students are in work or further study after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes survey conducted in 2021/22) .
The London Pathway College is a vibrant and dynamic community where you will receive first-rate teaching within a culture of high expectations and excellent pastoral care.
You will be known personally by our caring and approachable staff, and will be supported to make important decisions about your future.
LPC students contribute to their immediate community; playing a wider role in society.
This could mean leading charitable initiatives, taking on a variety of volunteering, sporting or creative activities, as well as work experience.
During your time at LPC you will become more independent, make new friends, challenge yourself in ways you didn’t think possible, and feel proud of your achievements.
This is our promise to you, regardless of what is happening in the world outside.
If you choose to come to LPC you can expect to be challenged to reach your full potential, and your achievements will be celebrated.
When you move to the next stage of study at UOPL we feel confident that you will be prepared to face the world as responsible, self-motivated, and independent people.
LPC provides a large range of pathways into the University of Portsmouth London, one of the top 100 new universities in the world as voted in The World University Rankings.
This university provides outstanding teaching, an excellent student experience and support every step of the way (including careers and opportunities) all in a great place to live.
It is my pleasure to welcome you to the London Pathway College in the heart of London, and we hope to see you here soon.
Dr Libby Pearson FRSA MBA FHEA, College Director

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth:
What to do when you arrive in the UK
However far you have to travel to Portsmouth, we're here to make your arrival in the UK – and your first weeks as a student with us – as enjoyable and stress-free as possible.
From advice and guidance on the things you should do before you arrive, to what to expect when you get here, we're here to help.
From the documents you'll need to bring, to your personal belongings, find out what you'll need to bring with you to university.
Get directions from London Heathrow, Gatwick and other airports to the University of Portsmouth.
We offer airport pickup services for international students.
If you're new to the UK, you'll probably have a few questions about insurance.
Find out what types of insurance you need.
Discover how best to plan your finances while studying at the University of Portsmouth, including advice on your budget for the study year.
Find out what could lie ahead here.
Learn more about the arrival programme, what you need to do, and what you might like to explore.
Find out how you can use the UK's free NHS services as an international student here, or how to get private healthcare.
Find out how to set up a bank account in the UK as an international student, and why it's a good idea to have one.
Learn all about your right to work in the UK as an international student while studying, and working time restrictions on your visa.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/what-to-pack-and-preparing-to-travel:
What to pack (and what to leave at home!)
Make sure you have these documents in your hand luggage, just in case you need to show them at the airport:
The best advice we can give is to travel as light as you can, and bring no more luggage than you can carry yourself.
A memento of home is important too, so make room for something small and personal.
Portsmouth has a temperate climate and rarely experiences extremes of temperature, but you will still need winter clothing.
Be sure to pack a winter coat, hoodies and jumpers.
You will also need gloves and hats, a scarf and umbrella.
Please don't bring any food or plants with you, as there are strict controls on bringing food, plants and plant products into Great Britain.
Contact the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for guidelines and advice on this.
For more details on what to pack, our International Student Ambassadors have put together a video with some helpful suggestions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/insurance-for-international-students:
A guide to insurance and why it's important to have it
If you're new to the UK, you'll probably have a few questions about insurance – find out what you need and why below.
You should also make sure you bring important documents with you to the UK.
If you're staying with us in halls, the possessions you keep in your room will be covered by our hall's contents insurance.
If you're staying in private accommodation, you'll need contents insurance of your own.
Some landlords will also request that you have sufficient insurance to cover accidental damage to their possessions (including furniture and property).
For more help and advice on finding the right insurance for you, contact our student housing team by emailing student.housing@port.ac.uk .
We recommend that you buy travel insurance that includes comprehensive sickness cover for the duration of your studies to cover any travel that you may do between the UK and other countries.
You should buy this insurance before you travel to the UK so that you are covered for your journey to the UK and any journeys to your home country or for holidays.
If you're on a Student visa , you have the right to work in the UK alongside your studies, though there are limitations .
However, you'll need a unique National Insurance (NI) number to make sure that National Insurance contributions and tax you pay are properly recorded against your name.
Employers will also require you to have your National Insurance number when you start working for them.
You can make your NI Number application online .
You will need proof of your identity to apply for an NI Number, the following documents will be accepted:
It can take up to 8 weeks to get your NI number after you’ve proved your identity.
You can find out more information about applying for a National Insurance number on the UK Government website .
You'll start to pay tax immediately when you start work, because your personal allowance is spread evenly over the tax year.
You'll pay tax on earnings from full-time or part-time work, including bonuses and tips.
For more information on taxable income, see the HMRC website .
If you need any further advice about finding a job in the UK, our Careers and Employability Service will help.
For information on the National Health Service and to explore your options around private healthcare insurance, visit our healthcare page .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/planning-your-finances:
Keep track of your finances at university
It's a good idea to plan your finances before you start your course.
By budgeting what you're likely to spend, you'll be able to successfully manage your money while you're living and studying in Portsmouth.
Planning ahead might even make your money go that little bit further.
Your exact costs will depend on your personal situation and lifestyle, but in most cases, you'll need to budget for £1,023 per month to cover your living costs, not including your tuition fees.
This should be enough to cover payment for your accommodation, food, clothing, course materials and items, travel and leisure activities.
Please be aware that if you are living in private accommodation you may be required to pay an advance of one month for your housing when you arrive in Portsmouth.
Please don't bring large amounts of cash with you – instead, you should:
When you arrive in the UK, you should also open a bank account .
Get some advice from your bank in your home country before leaving for the UK, because they might have a special arrangement with a UK bank.
You should also find out if you can use a cash card or ATM card from your home country, while in the UK.
If you need advice or guidance about managing your money, you can also contact our Student Finance team.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/how-to-get-here:
Plane, boat, car or train; how to travel to Portsmouth
Wherever you travel from, you'll most likely fly to the UK.
Portsmouth has great links with all of London's major airports, so it's easy to get here.
We run an airport pick-up from Heathrow, so if you land there, you can travel to Portsmouth on our coach on selected dates.
There are plenty of other transport links to Portsmouth, so however you travel, getting here is simple – even if you arrive out of hours.
Our maps and directions page has information about how to get here by sea, train, coach and car.
Our London Heathrow Airport pickup service costs £25 and operates at the beginning of the September and January intakes.
September 2025 Airport pick-ups:
Book your ticket
The pick-up is at 5.00pm and we will leave the airport at 6.00pm.
If your flight lands after 3.00pm, unfortunately you will not be able to take the airport pick up.
The airport pickups will be from Terminal 3 arrivals hall.
You will need to make your way to Terminal 3 from your arrival terminal, details about travelling between terminals can be found on the London Heathrow website .
All airport pickups are subject to availability.
We will notify you by email if there are any changes to your booking.
You can also take a coach to Portsmouth.
The journey takes between 2 to 3 hours.
See the National Express website for more details about coach times and prices.
If you're unable to catch one of our airport pickups, you can get discounted travel from Heathrow to Portsmouth, with National Express, when you travel between the 12th September and 27th October 2025.
To book your ticket, visit the direct booking website.
Please note that the National Express coaches are NOT staffed by University of Portsmouth staff, and will not drop you directly at your accommodation.
Terms and Conditions apply, please see the National Express website.
Or you can take the train to Portsmouth and Southsea Railway Station.
The journey takes about 3 hours and 15 minutes and may include multiple train changes.
You can find the latest travel times and ticket prices on the National Rail website .
If you arrive at London Gatwick Airport, we recommend you take the direct train to Portsmouth and Southsea Railway Station.
The journey takes about 90 minutes.
The journey takes about 3 hours and 45 minutes.
You can get discounted travel from Gatwick to Portsmouth, with National Express, when you travel between the 12th September and 27th October 2025.
If you fly into Southampton Airport, you should take the train from Southampton Airport Parkway to Portsmouth and Southsea Railway Station.
You will need to change trains at either Eastleigh, Cosham, Havant or Southampton Central.
The journey takes about 60 minutes.
Please check the National Rail website for the latest travel times and ticket prices.
If you are arriving in the UK and travelling to the University before our airport pick-up service is available you can book a taxi using local taxi company Aquacars , this will be cheaper than using an airport taxi.
Aquacars accept all credit cards including AMEX and those issued outside the UK.
Portsmouth and Southsea Station is the closest station to the campus, the halls of residence and the city centre.
There is a taxi rank outside, or you can use Uber, or local taxi company Aquacars (tel: 023 9265 4321 ) to get from the station to your accommodation.
However, several halls are a short walk from the station, so you will not need a taxi to get to these:
1 minute walk – Catherine House, Stanhope House, Crown Place As you exit the station, you will see Catherine House straight ahead of you.
It is the large black-glass building directly opposite.
You will see Stanhope House and Crown Place on your left.
3 minute walk – Chaucer House and Margaret Rule Hall When you exit the station, turn left.
Walk down the steps on the corner and cross the road.
Turn immediately left and you will see Chaucer House on your right.
Margaret Rule Hall is the blue building which bridges the road.
Margaret Rule Hall and Chaucer House share the same entrance door – it is underneath where Margaret Rule bridges the road.
3 minute walk - Greetham Street Hall When you exit the station, turn left.
Turn left again after passing Costa and keep walking straight ahead.
Just after the blue building that bridges the road (Margaret Rule Hall), you will see a green building with a yellow top on your left.
This is Greetham Street Hall.
5 minute walk – Bateson Hall and Harry Law Hall When you exit the station, turn left.
Walk into the city square (Guildhall Square).
Once you have passed the statue of Queen Victoria, go up the steps.
You will see a bridge to your left between the buildings.
Cross the bridge.
Bateson Hall is on the left, and Harry Law is on the right.
Report to Bateson Reception desk to check in for both Harry Law Hall and Bateson Hall.
7-8 minute walk – Rosalind Franklin Hall, Trafalgar Hall When you exit the station, turn left.
Cross the main square (Guildhall Square) and continue past the shops and bars to the end of the street.
Rosalind Franklin Hall is on the right – turn right into White Swan Road for the entrance door.
For Trafalgar Hall, continue past Rosalind Franklin and cross the main road at the traffic lights.
Turn left -  Trafalgar Hall is the third building on the main road (after University House and the Ibis Hotel).
If you are going to Rees Hall, Burrell Hall or a private address, you should take a taxi from Portsmouth & Southsea Station.
Portsmouth Harbour (The Hard) is the closest station to Gunwharf Quays and the neighbourhood of Portsea.
The main coach station is also here, and there is a taxi rank outside.
Fratton Station is the closest station to the neighbourhoods of Fratton, Milton, Eastney and Southsea.
However, there are not always taxis waiting there, so if it is your first time in Portsmouth, we recommend you get off at Portsmouth and Southsea Station and take a taxi from there.
If you arrive in Portsmouth outside our normal opening hours (8.30am–5.00pm Monday to Thursday, 8.30am–4.00pm Friday), you should go to your accommodation for the night and come to see the International Student Advice team in University House the next working day if you need help or information.
If you arrive in Portsmouth before you're due to move in to your accommodation, you'll need to book a local hotel or guest house for your arrival.
You can find places to stay via the Portsmouth Visitor Information Office .
Make sure you book in advance.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/your-first-weeks:
What lies ahead as a new student with us
During your first weeks in Portsmouth, you’ll get to take part in an exciting programme of Orientation events , both in person and virtual.
You’ll also get all the support you need to register with the University and pay your tuition fees.
Orientation activities start on Thursday 11 September.
We recommend you do join us for this exciting week of activities to get the best possible start to your studies.
When you arrive, you can join campus tours, social events, student information fairs and speak to Global staff who can help you settle into University life.
You’ll receive your orientation and registration programme by email before your first week.
Your orientation will be mainly in person, with a few online events.
If you are unable to join us for any sessions or you need a reminder, you will be able to use the On Demand section.
For help finding your way around the university, see our maps and directions page .
The Home Office is changing the way in which individuals will be able to view evidence of their UK immigration permission.
This will affect how you check your own permission and also how you prove what immigration permission you have to other organisations.
Physical documents such as BRPs, and vignettes placed in your passport, are being replaced by a digital immigration permission known as an ‘eVisa’
After you have registered for a UKVI account, your immigration permission (your eVisa) can be viewed through this account.
The part of the UKVI account where you can access your permission and learn how to share it with others is called ‘View and prove’.
We will ask you to share your 'Share Code' with us when you come to register at the University.
If you fail to produce the requested proof, you are at risk of exclusion.
For more information please see the government's guide to biometric residence permits .
If your BRP has the end date of 31 December 2024 but your course ends after this date, please visit gov.uk and read the information.
This may be correct even if your visa actually ends after this date.
You will need to register for UKVI account so that you can access your eVisa which will replace your BRP card.
New students will receive an email with details about how to Register.
If you have not received this email, please check you have completed all the necessary actions in your Application View as you must formally accept your Unconditional Offer before you can register.
There are THREE parts to registration and you must complete them all to be a fully registered student.
You need to complete the first two steps before you can complete the ID Check.
Once you have completed the first two steps, you will be sent an email to make an appointment to attend the ID Check.
At the ID Check you will need to confirm your identity and personal details as well as your right to study in the UK.
If you selected the ACL and are eligible for a BRP, you will be able to collect it at the ID Check.
If you have dependents with you in the UK who are also collecting their BRP, they will need to attend the ID Check with you.
If you fail to produced requested documentation, you are at risk of exclusion.
If you're transgender and can’t provide documentation that reflects your gender identity, get in touch with equality@port.ac.uk and we’ll resolve this for you in a confidential and respectful way.
You will receive a separate email from the University about how to submit a photo and apply for your Student Card.
If you submit your photo in time, you will be able to collect your Student Card at the ID Check.
You will only be issued with your Student Card once you have completed all three steps of Registration.
If you’re transferring from another university and don’t yet have a visa for the University of Portsmouth, you’ll need to show evidence of your visa application – such as your visa application checklist or visa application payment receipt/acknowledgement – before you’re allowed to register onto your course.
You can pay your fees by logging into your Student View and accessing payment links via the My Finance tab.
See more advice on how to pay your fees on our website.
You must pay 50% of your tuition fees to be able to complete online registration.
You will not be able to register if you do not pay this amount and the funds have cleared into the University account.
You cannot pay this amount in instalments.
Instalment options are available after the first instalment has been paid.
You can find out more about instalment plans on the Make a Payment page.
You should try to avoid joining your course late as this will negatively affect your studies and may not be possible.
Your term start date and the last date for registration is in your offer letter.
If you hold a Student Route visa, you will need to attend all of your scheduled sessions in person as a condition of your visa.
If you can’t arrive before the last date of registration, you will need to email the Registration Team at registration@port.ac.uk as soon as possible to let them know when you expect to arrive and see if this is possible.
If you're travelling to the UK and will be staying in university accommodation, you'll also need to contact the Student Housing team at student.housing@port.ac.uk to let them know when you'll be arriving.
To provide you with the best opportunity in succeeding on your course, the University of Portsmouth recommends that your term time address is no greater than a 30 minute journey away by public transport from the University.
This will enable you to attend your lectures and seminars and will provide you with the opportunity to regularly access the University's support services.
Wherever possible, you should try to secure your accommodation before you travel to the UK.
The Student Housing Team has lots of information and advice about how to do this.
If you do not have accommodation before you travel, make sure you have sufficient funds to stay in a hotel while you are looking.
If you are travelling to the UK with your dependents, we recommend you travel alone initially to find accommodation before your family joins you.
The University does not have any family accommodation available and hotels can be expensive while you are trying to find somewhere.
Education UK has produced some helpful advice about living and studying in the UK including a booklet about Staying Safe in the UK .
If you have any questions about joining the University please contact the International Student Advice team.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/moving-into-your-accommodation:
Our accommodation team is here to help
We have a variety of halls of residence accommodation and an established private sector housing market in the city at various prices.
We provide extensive housing support to all students.
If you've firmly accepted a place on a full-time course starting in September, you will receive an email inviting you to apply for accommodation via the Student Home Portal.
Places are allocated subject to availability at the time we receive your application.
Student Housing will then advise you on the latest information on your hall application once you hold an unconditional offer of study with Portsmouth.
Please note that if you have not secured long term accommodation prior to your arrival you are required to book a hotel or bed and breakfast - the University does not have any temporary or emergency accommodation for students (and any dependants).
Please be aware that the University has no family or couple accommodation.
Our Student Housing Team can give you the latest information on housing options available.
If you have questions about housing, please email student.housing@port.ac.uk or call +44(0)23 9284 3214 .
Private rented accommodation in the city is mostly in shared student houses or lodgings, and our housing team can help you find accommodation – and meet other students to share with too.
We recommend that you use our official private sector accommodation website , where landlords register their accommodation with our housing team.
Normally, if you share a house or flat you'll be living with three to five people, bedrooms are for sole use/single occupancy.
Landlords will not let these rooms to more than one student, couples or students with families.
However you decide to find a house, please make sure you do not send money to a landlord or agency until you have seen, in person, the house or flat you want.
You will be asked to provide a UK based guarantor before the tenancy starts.
If you cannot provide a guarantor, some Landlords may accept 6 or 12 months rent in advance.
If you cannot get a UK-based guarantor, some landlords will then ask you to pay a whole academic year’s rent (or a very large portion of it) upfront to guarantee rental payments.
There are also companies which provide a guarantor service for a small fee.
You can contact Student Housing for further advice on guarantors if needed.
If you have any questions about securing accommodation or would like your contract checked, our Student Housing team will be happy to help.
To provide you with the best opportunity in succeeding on your course, the University of Portsmouth recommends that your term time address is no greater than a 30 minute journey away by public transport from the University.
This will enable you to attend your lectures and seminars and will provide you with the opportunity to regularly access the University’s support services.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/healthcare:
Accessing NHS services as an international student
The UK has a National Health Service (NHS) – so unlike many other regions and countries around the world, healthcare is funded by taxes and is free to British citizens at the point of delivery.
If you join us on a Student Route visa for a full-time course or part-time postgraduate course for more than 6 months, you will be subject to the Immigration Health Surcharge of £776 per year, payable with your visa application.
This helps cover your NHS costs while you're in the UK, so you can access NHS services whenever you need them.
If you have any dependants living permanently with you for the duration of your course, they must also pay the surcharge when they apply for their visa.
You'll all need to pay any additional statutory NHS charges, like any prescriptions.
If you are an EU, EEA or Swiss citizen who was resident in the UK before 30 December 2020 and have been granted Settled or Pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) or have an EUSS application pending, you can access free healthcare through the NHS as long as you continue to be ordinarily resident in the UK.
The NHS may ask for evidence of your status.
Further information about access to the NHS can be found on the gov.uk website .
If you are studying in the UK for less than six months and are citizen of the EU or Norway, you can access medical treatment if you hold a valid EU issued EHIC card.
Citizens of Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland will need to pay for medical care.
If you have paid the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) for a Student Route visa started on or after 1 January 2021, are a full-time student and do not work in the UK, you may be entitled to apply for an IHS reimbursement after 1 January 2022.
You must also have an EHIC card issued in an EU country or Switzerland.
If you arrive in the UK from 1 January 2022, you’ll have a year to apply from the start date of your visa.
You should apply for your reimbursement as soon as possible after arriving in the UK.
This will help you to have all the relevant documents you need to make an application.
It also means we can give you important information about using your EHIC to get medical treatment.
You’ll get an IHS reimbursement that covers the period that your EHIC is valid in the UK.
In order to be eligible for a full reimbursement, you should ensure that you hold a valid EHIC for the duration of your stay.
If you wish to work in the UK you should not apply for the reimbursement.
We recommend that you buy travel insurance that includes comprehensive sickness cover for the duration of your studies to cover any travel that you may do between the UK and other countries.
You should buy this insurance before you travel to the UK so that you are covered for your journey to the UK and any journeys to your home country or for holidays.
You can choose to take private medical cover if you prefer.
We can't recommend any specific medical insurance providers, but all should be able to provide insurance that covers:
We hope you don't need medical attention while you're living in Portsmouth – but if you do, there are plenty of doctor's surgeries in the area.
Register with one as soon as you arrive, so you know who to contact if you are ill or injured.
It's important that you keep up with your recommended vaccinations, both for yourself and the protection of others.
We recommend that you check with your doctor in your home country to check that you are up to date with your vaccinations.
If you are not sure if you need further vaccinations speak to your GP surgery when you register with them.
You can find out more information on the Vaccination page on MyPort.
Call 111 or visit 111.nhs.uk for health advice.
It's a free service that allows you to speak to NHS staff who can give you health advice or help find which service is best for you.
The Urgent Treatment Centre and Minor Injury Unit at St Mary's Hospital , east of the University campus can help with minor illnesses and injuries
They can offer treatment, advice and information for incidents like minor head and eye wounds, treating sprains, strains and breaks to arms, lower legs and feet.
The A&E and Urgent Care Centre at Whipps Cross Hospital can help with minor illnesses and injuries.
If you or someone else has a serious or life-threatening injury or condition on campus, call 999 .
If you are on campus in Portsmouth when calling 999 please also call Campus Security who will be able to offer assistance and arrange access for the ambulance crew.
Call the Security Lodge through extension 3333 or +44 (0)23 9284 3333 .
You'll be asked:
The Security Lodge will dispatch caretakers and security to assist and arrange access for the ambulance crew.
If you need urgent medical treatment for a life threatening emergency, the local hospital in Portsmouth is Queen Alexandra Hospital ("QA Hospital") in the north of the city.
The Emergency Department at QA Hospital treats those with life-threatening emergencies, such as loss of consciousness, persistent or severe chest pain, breathing difficulties or severe bleeding that cannot be stopped.
If you need urgent medical treatment for a life threatening emergency, the local hospital in Walthamstow is Whipps Cross Hospital .
The Emergency Department at Whipps Cross Hospital treats those with life-threatening emergencies, such as loss of consciousness, persistent or severe chest pain, breathing difficulties or severe bleeding that cannot be stopped.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/opening-a-bank-account:
How to open an account, and why it's a good to have one
Using a bank account is the safest and most effective way of managing your money and making or receiving payments, so you should definitely open a bank account once you arrive in the UK.
You'll need a UK bank account for day-to-day transactions like purchases, withdrawing money and paying bills by direct debit.
Opening your account may take up to three weeks, so make sure you have access to any money you'll need during this period.
You'll need the following documents:
The bank where you wish to open an account may ask you to start the process online and then ask you to visit one of their branches to complete the process.
Each bank may have different requirements to open an account for an international student.
Most banks require international students to show a bank letter from the University before they will open an account for you.
Regulations change often, so we strongly advise you to visit the banks and get the most recent information about the different accounts and services they offer.
You should make an informed choice about where to open your account, because you may find it difficult to change bank accounts later in the year.
Once you've chosen a bank to join, you can request your bank letter through your Student View .
You will need to be registered as a student first, before you can generate a letter.
If you're here for less than 6 months, or if you're on an exchange programme, you may be restricted in the choice of bank where you can open an account.
Please check.
If you're a visiting scholar, please email us at global@port.ac.uk to request a letter.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/starting-at-portsmouth/working-during-your-studies:
Student visa working rights and restrictions
Working during your studies is a great way to build new skills, contribute to your local community, and earn a little extra money to fund your university experience.
Looking for part-time or voluntary work as an international student, there are plenty of opportunities open to you with local employers and working on campus, advertised on Careers and Employability’s MyCareer Jobs Board and Student Circus .
As you are studying on a Student Visa, you will have term and vacation working restrictions and these will vary depending on your level of study, detailed below, and there will be some types of work that you can not undertake .
On a Student Route visa , you can undertake work (paid and unpaid) or any voluntary work for up to 20 hours a week during term time – as defined by your course structure and the University’s Academic year dates .
It's very important that you don't work any more than this, as if you do, you'll be classified as working illegally, and this will affect your visa.
You can find out more information on the Student Route visa on the UKCISA website .
The 20 hours a week you can work term time includes all employment (paid and unpaid) and any voluntary work too, so if you have a paid job for 15 hours a week, you can't do more than 5 hours voluntary work alongside it.
You also cannot work more than 20 hours one week, and less than 20 hours the next week, and then take an average of your working time – your 20 hours must always fall within a single Monday to Sunday period.
If you are working in a Care Home the condition of working 20 hours per week still applies to you.
Outside of term time, your working restrictions will depend on whether you're studying an undergraduate, taught postgraduate, block taught or research postgraduate course.
You can find information on your term time and vacation working restrictions for your course, throughout the year below:
If you are permitted to work on your Student Route visa there are some types of work you are not permitted to do.
You cannot be Self Employed .
This may also be referred to as a freelance or contractor role.
Check if the role is on PAYE with the employer.
If it is then it is not a self-employed role.
You cannot undertake ‘ Business Activity ’, work as an ‘ Entertainer ’ or as a ‘ Professional Sportsperson ’.
You cannot take a Permanent full-time job .
You can do a permanent part-time job or a fixed term full-time job.
For more information: UKCISA: Work you must not do
If you have any questions about the type of role please contact us .
Teaching Blocks (including Consolidation Weeks, Assessment Periods, Re-Sits and Directed Activity)
20 hours per week and includes paid, unpaid and voluntary work
Christmas vacation *
No working restrictions
During your exam re-sits
20 hours per week, until you finish your last exam
When you're re-submitting coursework or a dissertation
20 hours per week until all your assessments have been completed
Summer vacation
No restrictions, as long as you’ve finished all your assessments and any exam re-sits
After your course has been completed (as recorded in our student record system, until the end of your Student Route visa)
No restrictions until your Visa end date, as long as you've finished all your assessments and any exam re-sits**
As the course is ongoing throughout the year the full course is considered to be term-time.
There are no vacation periods in which you can work full-time.
Teaching Blocks (including Consolidation Weeks, Assessment Periods, Re-Sits and Directed Activity) and vacations
20 hours per week and includes paid, unpaid and voluntary work - as the course is ongoing throughout the year the full course is considered to be term-time.
There are no vacation periods in which you can work full-time
After your course ends (as recorded in our student record system) until the end of your Student Route visa)
No restrictions until your Visa end date, as long as you've finished all your assessments and any exam re-sits**
**See information below on: providing evidence to an employer
Consolidation Weeks
20 hours per week
Easter vacation *
20 hours per week as you will be working on your assessments, dissertation or project
This will depend on if your course structure has a placement option
If you are a postgraduate student either:
For more information, contact the Placement Team placements@port.ac.uk
20 hours per week, until all your assessments have been completed
Completion of your course
After your course has been completed (as recorded in our student record system, until the end of your Student Route visa)
* See UoP Key Dates
** See information below on: providing evidence to an employer
At the point you commenced your course, you will have been given information on your course structure
No working restrictions
At the point you commenced your course, you will have been given information on the structure of your course, of the hours that you can work in your academic year of study.
To confirm whether you are required to study during this period (for example by working on any assessments, dissertation or project) please contact your Faculty Administration Service Centre.
Once confirmed, if you have any Learning and Teaching expectations over the summer, see below for the information on your summer working restrictions
Learning and Teaching expectations over the summer
If you have any Learning and Teaching expectations over the summer (for example by working on your dissertation or project) or to study, then you cannot work full-time during this period and your 20 hours working restrictions continue
No Learning and Teaching expectations over the summer
If you have received confirmation from your Faculty Academic Services Hub that you do not have any Learning and Teaching expectations over the summer vacation and have completed all your assessments and any exam re-sits, you will have no working restrictions over the summer*
This will depend on whether your course structure has a placement option
No restrictions until your Visa end date, as long as you've finished all your assessments any exam re-sits**
20 hours per week as you will have teaching scheduled during this time
20 hours per week, except within recognised Annual Leave periods
Winter breaks
You are permitted to work more than 20 hours per week during the University Christmas Closure period
Spring breaks
Undertaking viva amendments
No restrictions until your visa end date, as long as you’ve submitted the final bound copy of your thesis
If you’re receiving a bursary from the University, and you’re expected to undertake 6 hours per week assistance to teaching, this would count towards your 20 hours per week restrictions.
If you wish to take Annual Leave from your studies in order to work more than 20 hours for a period during term time, you’ll need to do the following before the excess hours are worked:
Obtain written authorisation via email from a member of your supervisory team for the period of annual leave, which includes the specific dates of the leave which has been authorised - the working week is from Monday to Sunday and Annual Leave will be for full weeks.
Copy the text of the email into a new tutorial record and ensure you and the supervisor sign it off.
Please note, you must obtain authorisation and ensure this is recorded on Skills Forge before you undertake any full time work.
Your annual leave is a maximum of 6 weeks within the year, not including bank holidays and university Christmas closure.
If you are also working for the university, please update the PeopleHub (select Compliance/Other and add: Name, ID, Annual Leave - add the dates to the heading) and attach a copy of your Supervisor's authorisation of your Annual Leave dates - this must be added to your file before you undertake any full-time work.
Students on a Tier 4 or Student Route visa studying part-time postgraduate taught or research degrees are not permitted to work (paid or unpaid) during term time or the vacation period.
If you are on a Standard Visitor visa or have entered the UK in this category you are not permitted to work (paid or unpaid) during term time or the vacation period.
To ensure your employer remains compliant with UKVI rules on visa working hours restrictions, your employer will undertake a Right to Work check and will ask you for your Share Code to check your visa working restrictions on GOV.UK Share Code .
Your working restrictions for term time and vacations will depend on the University's Term Dates and vary depending on the level of the course that you are studying:  Undergraduate, Taught Postgraduate or Research Postgraduate.
You will need to be able to evidence that you are a current student and your Confirmation of Studies Letter will show your employer your course start and end dates and is available from your Student View Portal and the process is detailed below.
Please note: the university is unable to provide individual letters to students for employers
Providing evidence of your course, term and vacation dates
Please note: if there are any assessment extensions, amendments or exam resits, you will not have completed your studies and the 20 hours working restrictions will continue to apply.
To ensure your employer remains compliant with UKVI rules on working hours restrictions, you will need to be able to evidence that you have finished your course.
After your employer has offered you employment, they will undertake a Right to Work check and will ask you for your Share Code to check your visa working restrictions on GOV.UK Share Code .
Your working restrictions for term time and vacations will depend on the University’s Term Dates and vary depending on the level of the course that you are studying: Undergraduate, Taught Postgraduate or Research Postgraduate.
You will need to be able to evidence that you are a current student and your Confirmation of Studies Letter will show your employer your course start and end dates and this information is available from your Student View Portal and the process is detailed below.
Please note: the university is unable to provide individual letters for employers.
Providing evidence that your course has ended
For UG & PGT students:
For PGR students, provide evidence on submission of your final thesis with a screenshot of the Submission status
Please note : if there are any assessment extensions, corrections or amendments or exams or exam resits, your studies will not have ended and the 20 hours working restrictions will continue to apply.
If you want to work in the UK after you graduate, it's important you research your options and check the regulations of the different types of visa.
For more information on the main options including the Graduate Immigration Route visa and the Skilled Worker visa, please visit the Working in the UK after your studies webpage .
Some students can apply to have their immigration health charge reimbursed .
This applies only to holders of valid European Health Insurance Cards (EHIC) who have not worked and will not work in the UK.
If you intend to work in the UK you must not apply for this reimbursement.
If you require any further information, advice and guidance please contact the University's International Student Advice Team, please contact the International Student Advice team .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/professional-and-flexible-learning/degree-apprenticeships:
Earn a salary, get a degree, and pay no tuition fees
Degree apprenticeships allow you to work as an employee while you study part time.
They combine academic study from a traditional university degree with practical on-the-job experience and employment skills you need for a successful career.
Browse our degree apprenticeships
We provide degree apprenticeships with various types of employer, from large multinational organisations to small local companies
Previous employers include the Royal Navy, Portsmouth City Council, Hampshire County Council, Blanchard Wells, Estee Lauder, Mace, Osborne, Apollo Fire, Neilcott Constructions, Pfizer and Hampshire Chamber of Commerce.
We regularly discuss new degree apprenticeships with employers.
If you're interested in a role or subject not listed, get in touch with us and we can let you know if other programmes are on the horizon.
Please contact us with your questions.
Once we've received your message a member of our friendly team will get back to you as soon as possible.
Email: degree-apprenticeship-office@port.ac.uk
Phone: +44(0)23 9284 3865

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/degree-apprenticeships/entry-requirements-and-eligibility:
Check your eligibility and the evidence required
Before you apply for a degree apprenticeship , you need to check you’ll meet the entry requirements and that you're eligible to apply.
Entry requirements outline what qualifications and grades you need before you start your course.
This includes any subjects you need to study, where relevant.
Although you don't apply for degree apprenticeships through UCAS, we use the UCAS Tariff point system to show entry requirements for most degree apprenticeship courses.
You can see the entry requirements for our degree apprenticeships on the relevant course pages .
Most need 112–120 UCAS Tariff points from 3 A levels (or equivalent), plus at least 2 GCSEs at Grade C/4 (or equivalent) or above including English and Mathematics.
We also accept Level 2 Functional skills in English and Mathematics instead of GCSEs.
You can work out how many points are awarded to qualifications using the UCAS Tariff point calculator .
If your qualifications aren't covered by the UCAS calculator, contact us.
You'll need to provide evidence of your previous qualifications (including GCSEs) before you start your apprenticeship.
If you don’t have this evidence, please let us know as soon as possible after you apply.
If you don’t have 3 A levels, we can take other qualifications (such as AS levels) and work experience into account, on some courses.
If you don’t have 2 GCSEs at Grade C/4 (or equivalent) or above including English and Mathematics, you could get these through our partner provider, Fareport Training at the start of your apprenticeship.
To arrange this, we’ll share your name, email address and qualifications with Fareport after you apply.
We’ll share your data securely and it won’t be used for anything else.
If you have any non-UK qualifications, you’ll need to submit a Statement of Comparability from UK ENIC as part of your application.
You’ll need to pay UK ENIC a small fee for this.
Find out more on the UK ENIC website .
To do a degree apprenticeship, you need to be employed and have lived in the EEA for 3 years (England is in the EEA) at the start of your apprenticeship.
You must also have the right to work in the UK.
You'll need to have a plan for your apprenticeship, which shows you'll be working regularly and spending at least 50% of your working hours in England.
We'll check to make sure you're eligible before you start your degree apprenticeship, and may ask for proof of your right to work in the UK.
Browse all degree apprenticeships
Degree Apprenticeships
+44 (0)23 9284 8599
degree-apprenticeships@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/degree-apprenticeships/how-youll-be-taught-and-assessed:
Discover what qualifies for off-the-job training, how you'll be assessed and when you'll graduate
On your degree apprenticeship, you'll spend a minimum of 6 hours of your working week studying for your degree apprenticeship.
This is called off-the-job training.
Once you've achieved a portfolio of your off-the-job training, you'll do an end-point assessment and graduate alongside the rest of your class.
Off-the-job training mainly takes place at the University, where you'll attend lectures and practical sessions to develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours to achieve your apprenticeship.
You can also do off-the-job training at the workplace.
Off-the-job training is calculated throughout your apprenticeship, not over the academic year.
It can only take place during your normal working hours (the time you're paid to work).
If training takes place outside of working hours, your employer will owe you time off in lieu (TOIL).
Both your employer and the University of Portsmouth are equally responsible for making sure that you take part in off-the-job training during your degree apprenticeship.
For most of your off-the-job training, you'll attend theory and practical lectures at the University of Portsmouth.
You'll also read, research and write your assignments.
You'll need to keep a record or log of your training.
You'll need to prepare a portfolio with 15–20 pieces of evidence of your time spent doing off-the-job training for your end-point assessment (EPA).
The National Apprenticeship Service explains how you can determine if an activity counts as off-the-job training .
You'll have access to online forms where you can track your off-the-job training.
These forms are embedded in your Aptem learning plan.
You should try to complete the log at least every fortnight.
Your hours, once approved by your Work Based Tutor, will be reflected on your dashboard in Aptem so you can track your progress against target.
Typically, your off-the-job training will be divided into 1 day per week studying for your course, and the rest of the week at work.
Teaching can vary.
You might take part in training 1 day every 2 weeks, in 1 intensive block, or from a combination of online and face-to-face learning.
Your start date is flexible and can be confirmed with your employer once your application is processed.
Contact our degree apprenticeship team for more information or to discuss your options.
We'll provide support to help you balance your work and studies, but you'll also need good time management skills.
You'll sign a training plan at the beginning of your degree, along with your employer and the University of Portsmouth.
The plan is evidence of your commitment to completing your degree apprenticeship, so your attendance and contribution to the degree are important.
Your end-point assessment takes place at the end of your degree apprenticeship.
It's designed to test whether you've gained the knowledge, skills and behaviours set out in the apprenticeship standards.
You can access your apprenticeship standards on your virtual learning environment.
The EPA differs slightly, depending on the course you're on.
But all follow the same basic rules:
There are two main structures of a degree apprenticeship that affect how the final assessment is given.
On an integrated degree apprenticeship, employers and the University of Portsmouth work together to co-design the course.
The EPA is designed along with the course as an integral part of the degree.
You can't pass the degree without passing the EPA.
A non-integrated degree apprenticeship occurs when you take an existing degree that already meets the knowledge requirements of an occupation.
You can combine the degree with additional workplace training to meet the full degree apprenticeship standards.
To successfully complete a non-integrated degree apprenticeship, you'll need to do an EPA as well as the standard degree assessment.
You'll be assessed by taking part in a minimum of 2 different assessment methods.
The methods chosen will be those most relevant to your job, and will be chosen by your employer and the University of Portsmouth.
Assessment methods can include:
Different assessment methods may be combined.
For example, you could take part in a workplace observation followed by an interview.
On completion of the EPA, you'll be graded with a fail, pass, merit or distinction.
Your grade will be based on all the assessment activities undertaken as part of the EPA.
Your attendance on the programme is very important.
You'll be required to attend all lessons, as your success is closely related to your attendance.
We strongly recommend you take all annual leave outside of your timetabled lessons at university.
On completion of your degree apprenticeship, you'll be invited to graduate alongside all other students in your department.
Now you know how you'll be taught and assessed, find your ideal degree apprenticeship to complement and advance your chosen career.
Support staff to upskill through our CPD and short courses developed by industry experts.
Develop staff and increase motivation through work-based degrees.
Collaborate with us to develop custom-made CPD training courses for your employees.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/degree-apprenticeships/how-to-apply-for-degree-apprenticeships:
For a degree apprenticeship
If you’re in full-time employment and would like to do a degree apprenticeship with your current employer, ask them to c ontact us so we can discuss with them how we can work together.
(You might find it useful to share our information for employers page with them too.)
Our early discussions with your employer might include your academic suitability to study on your chosen course.
Once they've confirmed they can support you in your studies, we'll ask you to complete an application form so we can fully assess your academic and professional suitability for the course.
If you’re not employed full-time or not working for a company that can fund and support your degree apprenticeship, you'll need to apply for a degree apprenticeship with a company that offers them.
You'll need to follow their standard recruitment process and we'll assess your academic suitability for the course once you've applied.
We can let you know when there are degree apprenticeship vacancies available with companies we work with – contact us to give us your details.
You can also search for degree apprenticeship vacancies through the gov.uk find an apprenticeship search .
Browse degree apprenticeship vacancies
Please see the Degree Apprenticeship Application process below.
The deadlines show the timeframe we expect each stage to be completed.
Please refer to this when you begin the journey to become a Degree Apprentice.
Need help with this stage?
Please contact the Degree Apprenticeship Office on 023 9284 3865 or degree-apprenticeship-office@port.ac.uk .
Please contact the University Admissions Centre on 023 9284 5566 or degree-apprenticeships@port.ac.uk .
Please note: If you have already accepted the conditional offer, you do not need to accept again.
If you have not accepted yet, please ensure you do this!
We'll send you a registration form about 2 months before your course starts - please use this to submit your details within 5 days of receiving it.
Once we've received this form, you're registered as a degree apprenticeship student.
You'll get your timetable during induction week (the week before your course begins), and will be invited to a Degree Apprenticeship Welcome Day before your course begins.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/degree-apprenticeships/contact-us:
Talk to our Studying While Working team about degree apprenticeships at Portsmouth
If you can't find the answers you need in our degree apprenticeship pages , you can contact us with any questions.
Once we've received your message, a member of our team will review your request, and get back to you as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/portsmouth-military-education:
Find out more about the Portsmouth Military Education Team (PME) and the education packages available to members of the RAF
The Portsmouth Military Education Team delivers Professional Military Education to the Royal Air Force as part of its second successive long-term contract with the RAF to design and deliver education packages.
In 2019, the Portsmouth Military Education Team designed and delivered the country's first blended learning course for phase one training.
Today, the course covers a wide spectrum of disciplines and subjects including; international security, military theory, military history, international relations, space security and cyber security.
The course is delivered through a bespoke combination of online material which includes, videos, podcasts and interactive packages which are complimented and enhanced through in-person teaching with a dedicated team of expert tutors.
The Portsmouth Military Education Team delivers courses at two sites for the RAF, principally at the Royal Air Force College Cranwell in Lincolnshire and at RAF Halton in Buckinghamshire the home of the Airmen’s Command Squadron and the site of training for all RAF non-commissioned officers.
For further information please contact the PME Academic Director Dr Tom Smith on tom.smith@port.ac.uk or tom.smith197@mod.gov.uk
Tom is a Principal Lecturer in International Relations and PME's Academic Director.
He is based at the Royal Air Force College Cranwell delivering professional military education.
Tom specialises in contemporary security and terrorism with particular focus on Asia.
He has a law degree and following his MSc in Global Politics at the London School of Economics, Tom worked for the United Nations in Sri Lanka.
Before joining the University of Portsmouth he worked at five different UK universities and 2 overseas, including a year as Visiting Lecturer at De La Salle University in Manila whilst completing fieldwork for his PhD studying the jihadist insurgencies of Southern Thailand and the Philippines.
Tom has published in both of the top two terrorism academic journals - Terrorism and Political Violence and Studies in Conflict and Terrorism and uses a blend of fieldwork research based on communities in conflict with social media research.
In 2016 Tom was commissioned by the Defence Science & Technology Laboratory (DSTL) of the UK Ministry of Defence to examine the role of social media in the Syrian War.
This research was later presented to the Joint Forces Intelligence Group at RAF Wyton.
In 2018, Tom was also invited to give evidence before the All Parliamentary Group on Human Rights on human rights abuses in the Philippines and in 2019 a delegate of the Foreign Office at the governmental summit of Press Freedom.
In 2020, he was commissioned again by DSTL to examine the Legal, Ethical and Moral Perspectives on Advanced Technology and Weapon System Use in Current and Future Conflicts.
He regularly writes about international affairs for outlets and has appeared on numerous international broadcast networks.
In 2020 Tom also published Exporting Global Jihad , a major two-volume edited book featuring original work from 26 different experts from across the globe on the nexus of global jihadism - and in 2021, he published research on his latest project in the journal Pacific Affairs on the state of election violence in the Philippines.
Mohamed is an experienced Learning Technology Practitioner with a broad experience spanning more than 20 years.
He has worked for a variety of universities in the UK and now with University of Portsmouth.
His primary focus is in the design and development of effective online and blended learning solutions, across complex and changing organisations.
He has experience of commissioning and developing online courses that are now being used across institutions nationwide, such as Working with the Prevent Duty, Data Protection, Cyber Security and other courses.
His educational and research interests span various disciplines such as Software Engineering, Multimedia Engineering, Education Practice, Project Management and Workplace Mediation.
Andrew is a Senior Lecturer based at RAF Cranwell, as part of the University of Portsmouth academic team.
Since 2006, he has contributed to the education of RAF cadets and mid-career officers, primarily in the conceptualisation and contextualisation of air power, with a specific focus on the evolution of the Royal Air Force.
He taught previously at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand (1998-2005) and the University of the South Pacific, Fiji (2005-2006).
His current research focus is the foundations and employment of multinational air power, in particular the dynamics and influence of military-civilian partnerships.
His most recent publication (2020) concerned Anglo-American air cooperation in the Western Desert, and is currently researching a history of the Takoradi air transportation route.
Ben is a Senior Lecturer in Naval History at the University of Portsmouth and is based at the RAF College, Cranwell.
He has taught at Cranwell since 2006 on many IOT Courses, the Higher Air Warfare Course and Senior Officers Study Programme and participated in a dozen Staff Rides to Berlin, the Falklands and Normandy.
Between 2013-2017 he undertook the roles of IOT Course Manager and Assistant Director (Academic).
He has also lectured to the ICSC (Air) at the Joint Staff College.
Ben specialises in naval history and British defence policy.
Current research interests include maritime air power, naval logistics during the Second World War and defence policy East of Suez in the post-war period.
Dr Jones’s latest book is The Fleet Air Arm in the Second War: Volume II, 1942-1943, the second of the three volumes for the Navy Records Society.
He co-authored Air Power in the Maritime Environment: The World Wars with Dr David Gates published in 2016.
Since 2013 Ben has been General Editor of the Navy Records Society and was involved in the organisation of the Normandy 75 conference which was held at the University of Portsmouth in 2019.
Matthew joined the team in July 2017.
Between 2012 to 2015 he held a number of teaching roles at the University of Birmingham and undertook a PhD at the University of Birmingham, supervised by Air Commodore (ret’d) Dr Peter Gray, focusing on the development of tactical air power in Britain during the Second World War through the study of the RAF’s Army Co-operation Command.
Matthew also holds an MA in Intelligence and Security Studies and a BA (Hons) degree both from the University of Salford.
His first book, entitled The Development of British Tactical Air Power, 1940-1943: A History of Army Co-operation Command was published in 2016 by Palgrave Macmillan.
His research interests are the development of tactical air power in the twentieth century, the relations between the state and the aircraft industry and defence procurement and air power as an instrument of strategy.
He has published work in Air and Space Power Review, War in History, The British Journal for Military History and The Journal of the Royal United Services Institute.
He is currently researching a book on the relations between the Air Ministry and the RAF in the inter-war period.
Mike joined the RAF in 1976 after completing a BEng in Aeronautical Engineering at Loughborough University.
Trained as a navigator he flew in Canberra, Phantom and Tornado F3 aircraft, mainly in the air defence role and qualified as a NATO TACEVAL airborne evaluator.
Promoted to sqn ldr in 1989, he served in a variety of staff and training appointments, including 2 NATO tours, the Defence Intelligence Staff, OASC and the Air Warfare Centre; where he specialised in air and space power, teaching the Air Battle Staff and Higher Air Warfare courses.
He has served on operations in Germany, the Falkland Islands, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Afghanistan.
On leaving the RAF in 2012, he worked for the UAE armed forces based in Abu Dhabi and he has other experience teaching in the Gulf region; once again, specialising in air and space power.
Mike’s educational qualifications include a BA from the Open University, MA (Distinction) in recruitment practice from Middlesex University and MA in Air Power studies from the University of Birmingham.
He has been working part-time for the University of Portsmouth since 2013, including support to the RAF Eagle programme.
Harry joined the team in January 2018.
Before this, he taught modern history at Keele University for three years.
His PhD research – completed in 2019 – analysed how emotions are mobilised and sustained during periods of conflict.
In particular, it focused on fears of German espionage during the First World War to examine the connections between popular emotions and national security.
He is currently preparing a monograph based on this research, as well as developing another project that examines the use of retired and invalided military officers to monitor local communities and gather intelligence in Britain during the First World War.He has previously published on British SIGINT between 1914-1918.
Before this he was awarded an MA in the History of Warfare by King’s College London, and a BA in History by the University of Northampton.
Rob Spalton has been a member of the team since 2015, initially teaching full time, moving to part time employment in autumn 2020.
Rob graduated with a BA and subsequent MA in Geography from Oxford University in 1998.
He then attended Sandhurst and was commissioned into the Light Infantry in 1999.
He served as an Infantry Officer for 16 years of Regular service.
During this time he completed operational tours in Northern Ireland, Sierra Leone, Iraq (twice) and Afghanistan (twice).
He served in staff roles at PJHQ (twice) and the Air Warfare School (Cranwell).
After completing Regular service, Rob transferred to the Army Reserve.
Having been selected as CO of the 4th Battalion the Mercian Regiment Rob moved to a part time teaching role for the period of his command.
As a Teaching Fellow Rob is focussed on Military Thought and Contemporary Operations and is the lead for the Philosophy and Principles of Defence module on MIOT.
He also has an interest in modern Naval Aviation.
Clare Stevens joined the team at RAF Cranwell in 2021 as Teaching Fellow in  International Security at the University of Portsmouth.
For the four years prior, she taught at the University of Bristol and the University of Gloucestershire on courses ranging from Politics to Theories of International Relations, and from Cybercrime to the Sociology of Culture.
Her research expertise pertains to the contemporary security issues of digital technologies in international security, with a particular focus on cybersecurity politics and American security policy.
Her doctoral research was on the strategic use and misuse of cyberspace by state and non-state actors in the United States.
By using the idea of “boundary work” as an organizing heuristic for her analysis, her PhD thesis analysed the fraught domestic political processes of defence and security policymaking in the US to show how the ways that state actors talk about cybersecurity and cyber operations are shaping or challenging understandings of “old” strategic concepts, social categories and boundaries.
Her current research interests are about the role of government secrecy in cyber operations.
Dafydd is a Teaching Fellow in International Security.
He is based at RAF Cranwell where he specialises in cybersecurity policy.
He has considerable teaching experience of political history with a particular focus on the United States.
Dafydd has a degree in history and a MA in American Studies: History and Politics from University College London.
He was awarded his PhD by the University of Reading in 2018.
His doctoral research focused on the influence of public opinion on national security during the 1975 US congressional investigations of the intelligence community.
His thesis was the basis of his 2021 publication The Year of Intelligence in the United States: Public Opinion, National Security, and the 1975 Church Committee.
He has also had articles published in the Journal of Intelligence History and History.
His current research, and focus of his second monograph, focuses on the development of US cybersecurity policy and the role of public – private partnerships in its formulation and delivery.
He is currently treasurer of the American Politics Group, which is part of the Political Studies Association.
Frank Ledwidge began his career as a criminal barrister in his home city of Liverpool.
He was called up as an RN Reserves officer in 1996 and served several tours as a human intelligence operator in the Balkans and Iraq.
In civilian life he worked eight years with the OSCE as a senior human rights officer in the Balkans and the Former Soviet Union.
Whilst in the Balkans he worked as an investigator for the International Criminal Tribunal.
He was the first Justice Advisor for the UK PRT in Helmand and served as a Stabilisation officer for the British Missions in Benghazi and Tripoli during the Libya War in 2011-12.
He completed his PhD (at KCL) in 2015 and has since worked as senior lecturer  at both Cranwell and Halton.
He is the author of several books including the bestselling 'Losing Small Wars' (Yale 2011/2018) and Aerial Warfare (Oxford 2018) both of which were included on the CAS reading lists for the relevant years.
His interests are in contemporary conflict, space and military ethics.
Christopher Morris joined the teaching team in July 2021, having previously worked for the institute of policing at Staffordshire University, where he developed and taught a range of courses.
He has additional teaching experience across law, social science and international relations.
His research is centred around religious violence and international law.
Having completed his PhD examining the ISIS conflict in 2019, Chris has gone on to explore the impact religious ideology has on the use of force.
Veronika joined the team at Cranwell in 2019 as Teaching Fellow at the University of Portsmouth  and is now based at RAF Halton.
She previously taught at the University of Nottingham.
Before starting her PhD, she worked in project management.
Veronika completed a PhD in International Relations at the University of Nottingham.
Her doctoral research focused on political violence and civil disobedience in Israel, and looked at how living in ‘counter-culture’ communities leads to radicalisation, and how members of these communities respond to crises of political and religious nature.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/work-based-learning-webinars:
Catch up, or re-watch our work-based learning webinar.
We regularly host live webinars in Zoom to give you the opportunity to hear everything you need to know if you're considering applying for a work-based degree, and put your questions to the team and current students.
You can can catch up, or re-watch these sessions any time.
If you'd like to ask us a question about anything related to our work-based Bachelor's or Master's degrees, you can contact us at learningatwork@port.ac.uk .
A recording of our Work-based Learning Webinar from 18 April 2023.
This session outlines how our work-based degrees are structured, how you can use your experience and prior learning towards credits, to professional accreditations and everything in between.
A recording of our Work-based Learning Webinar from 7 December 2022.
Now a warm welcome to everyone that's on this call.
There will be plenty of opportunity for question and answers, so once I've finished the PowerPoint slides, please do ask as many questions, and me and Fiona can answer them.
Then we'll pass over to Sophie, who's an existing student, and again, there'll be plenty of time for questions to Sophie.
And then again at the end, any more questions.
So I've got a few slides to go through.
I won't spend too much time on them, but don't panic if there's any questions you forget about, you can just email Learning at Work, or telephone us and those details will be on the last slide.
So, as Fiona said there are degrees are work-based,and they're effectively a partnership between the employer, the University and the student.
So as a student you will enrol with us, you'll be supported in the University by a tutor and a Learning Manager, but also you can allocate a workplace mentor in your workplace who can support you as well.
And the reason you need the workplace mentor is because you will complete work-based projects and these are live real projects that are going on in work that you will lead on and therefore that's why you need the support of your workplace.
So as Fiona mentioned, you can see there we've got quite a lot of different course titles, both at undergraduate, which is degree level, level six and also at Master's, which is level seven.
So we first of all got up the top left there a certificate in higher education, level four.
So that's equivalent to a HNC, that's 120 credits.
So that's really a qualification for someone as their first step into HE, but they don't want to go for the first degree.
You can do that certificate and then if you wish to carry on you can then study the remaining 240 credits to get your degree.
You can see at undergraduate level we've got different course titles, Business, Engineering, They're are two most popular titles, but again, you can see we've got other titles like Computing and Science, Maritime Studies as well.
So as Fiona mentioned, there's pretty much a course title that will fit with most people's workplace or industry background.
But again, if any of those titles don't fit, then you can do professional studies at both undergraduate or Master's.
So moving on to the Masters, you can see again that we've got the similar course titles, but we've just got a few extra there, so we do, do Occupational Health and Safety courses that are accredited by IOSH or IEMA.
So you can see at the bottom right there there's a couple of full Masters 180 credits, but at the top right there you can see we've got a PG Cert, which is 60 credits for Occupational Health and Safety.
So if any of you have got a Health and Safety background, you're a Health and Safety Manager, for example, those are very good qualifications to get, which means you're then accredited to IOSH or IEMA.
So what are the benefits of Learning at Work?
So Learning at Work is slightly different in that our courses are for people in work, that's full time, part time, voluntary or internships, and so there's no need to come to the Portsmouth campus.
You can if you want to, but most of our students work and study wherever they live around the world.
We've got students from all around the UK, the EU, but also Internationally.
So the benefits there as it states, you can gain a university qualification without taking a career break, which means there's no financial hit to you.
You can still be working, earning a salary and study around your work.
Opportunity to achieve professional recognition, which we'll come on to, so some of the professional bodies.
You can also tailor your learning so you can select different modules and work-based projects to fit in with your studies.
You can set your own timetable and certain elements, but obviously there are set deadlines for other assignments.
As Fiona mentioned at the start, we can recognise any previous qualifications you've got, both UK and International qualifications.
So if you studied, for example in New Zealand or Nigeria, then we can recognise those qualifications and we would assess them and we would try to allocate you credits.
So that's a very effective way for you to study less credits, which is also cheaper for you as well.
And as I mentioned at the start, you get assigned a tutor and that tutor is someone with an industry background and you get a tutor assigned to you that has a similar industry background, whether it's Nuclear Engineering or Business or Leadership or Maritime or Health and Safety.
And you also get a Learning Manager assigned to you, and that would be someone like myself or Fiona, one of the academics that will oversee your whole study programme.
So that's just a nice picture of one of our ex-students there in the Military.
So as we involve people from the private sector, Military, the public sector, pretty much it doesn't matter where you work, but we do have quite a number of people from a Military background and that lady studied on the Health and Safety course with us.
And you can see the quote she's put there.
Also there's benefits to your employer as well.
So as well is you gaining a qualification and new knowledge and skills.
There's a benefit to your employer.
If you enrol with a Learning at Work course because one, you'll pass up best practise that you would learn on to other employees, you would complete those work based projects, as I mentioned before, which are valuable to the workplace.
Obviously better qualified staff, and there's no need for you to come to the University for day release so you can fit your studies around, work even the evening or weekends, or you can ask for work time off during the day if you wish to.
And obviously the benefits to the employers, you're going to be more motivated.
So some nice benefits for the employer.
Again, a nice little quote there from one of our ex students.
So you can see that, you know, the benefits both to the individual and the employer are quite, quite good.
So it's nice to see those quotes.
Now, just a little bit more detail on how your studies will work.
So effectively.
You can see at the top there, you'll bring in maybe some kind of recognised prior learning.
You don't have to, but a lot of our students do.
So they can be UK qualifications, but also they can be qualifications from around the world as well.
So if we do allocate you credits, that means you've got less credits to study.
You can also build a portfolio of experience.
So if this means where you don't have a previous qualification, you can actually build a portfolio based on your experience and we can allocate credits for that.
Then you'll study sometimes a mandatory learning management module which will prepare your study.
So research methods that will help you to prepare for HE.
Then you can select some optional distance learning modules.
Some students can come on campus, but pretty much all our students would do that distance learning.
And then you add some work based projects as well.
And effectively the combination of all those elements then allow you to get the Bachelor's degree, which is 360 credits or a Master's degree at 180 credits.
So effectively every learner will have a unique learning programme with us because they all come in with different recognised prior learning, and they will all select different optional distance learning modules and they will all select different work-based projects.
So you can see it's quite a nice, unique programme.
So again, we've talked about recognised prior learning so effectively, it allows you to qualify quicker because you're allocated credits.
So we will consider both qualifications and professional experience, as I've mentioned.
We recognise standard qualifications from a wide range of awarding bodies, so Pearson, ILM qualify, ABE, so lots of UK awarding bodies.
So we can also take into account the local qualifications.
So those are International qualifications, so we can assess those as well.
As I've mentioned before, you can do a portfolio of evidence through the experience you've gained through, say, working 10-15 years in work at a high level, management level, but you've not got a formal qualification.
We can assess that and allocate credits for that.
And also, depending on what rank you are in the Armed Forces, we can also sometimes allocate new credits because we can understand the training that you've gone through with the Armed Forces.
So you can see lots of different ways to get credits, which is is really quite valuable.
I mentioned before the professional recognition, so this is a list of some professional bodies that we partner with.
So if I just choose one example, the IET, you could then apply to the IET and either get technician or Chartered Engineer status, for example.
So if that's something that you want to do we can direct you to these professional bodies and make sure then that you are communicating with them and that your study programme is recognised and allows you, for example, to go for Chartered Engineer status, which can be very valuable to you as an individual, but also your career and your salary in the longer term.
So again, a nice picture there of one of our ex-students, really picking up on the work-based projects.
So what's really good about the work-based projects is you as the learner can select a project and we will work with you to agree with it and agree that it is a level six or level seven project.
But it could be, for example, implementing a new bit of software into your business.
Or it could be looking at leadership and management theories, practice in your workplace, could be looking at a new maintenance plan in a workshop.
It really doesn't matter what the project is, it's just a project that you would lead and drive on in the workplace.
So one, you benefit from that because you understand how to lead and manage your project from start to end and write a report.
But also your employer will benefit from that project because it's a real project that you're going to implement.
So how will we support you throughout this whole process?
So if you do decide to enrol with us, as I mentioned at the start, you can select a workplace partner in your employment.
So that could be your Line Manager or someone else.
You'll get a dedicated University tutor to support you, and that tutor is a subject specialist.
You'll get a Learning Manager like myself and Fiona, who you can get support from.
Then if you choose any of those distance learning modules then you'll get a Module Coordinator who delivers that module and assesses it, so that person will support you as well.
And also you'll get an introductory learning management module which helps you to devise your learning contracts, your projects, your research, and how to write a report so that most students will go through that as well.
So you can see lots of different ways that you'll be supported, and the final way you'll be supported is we have a fantastic administration team who would answer your phone calls and emails if you've got any queries.
So what are the entry requirements?
Well the great thing about Learning at Work is we have no standard entry requirements.
We assess everyone on their previous knowledge and experience and you know what kind of job you are, have you come from the Military background.
So that's quite unique.
So it means that there's far more flexibility for you to be able to enrol on the course.
So if you are thinking about applying for us, we enrol in January and September each year.
So our next enrolment would be January 23.
So if you're thinking about that, you'll need to get the application in quite quickly.
But if you miss that, we enrol then again in September 23.
So we do recommend you email us first, talk to us, we can get an idea of your background and then give you better guidance on which course is best for you.
So you can apply online.
So the Learning at Work website has got all those different course titles I showed you in a previous slide.
But as I said, we strongly recommend you email us first because we can get all those details off you and maybe, for example, assess your previous qualifications and then give you a better idea on the way forward.
And there's our contact details at the bottom there.
So you can see our email is learningatwork@port.ac.uk.
You've got the telephone number there and you can just search for 'work-based degrees' on our website.
But email us any time and we will respond to that.
So there you go.
So there's all the slides from me.
So if anyone's got any questions then please do ask or put them into the chat.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/military-personnel:
Upskill with a work-based degree, degree apprenticeship, Master's degree or short course
In many cases, you can use the training and experience from your military service as credit towards a qualification, helping you complete your studies more quickly.
You can also use the MOD’s ELCAS (Enhanced Learning Credits Administration Service) funding to pay for your studies on eligible courses.
If you’re stationed overseas, lots of our courses are available by distance learning.
Find out about the different types of courses and qualifications we offer for serving and military personnel.
The University of Portsmouth is a holder of the Career Transition Partnership (CTP) preferred supplier status.
CTP is the official resettlement service for the Armed Forces.
Work-based ‘Learning at Work’ degrees give you the freedom to gain a Bachelor's (undergraduate) or Master's (postgraduate) degree without leaving your job.
You build your learning around work projects, set your own objectives and shape your degree to your own needs and your employer’s goals.
You can study online units from home or work and choose to attend some lectures on campus – but that's not essential.
Browse work-based degrees
The course is challenging but very rewarding, as you know you are working towards your future.
I haven’t even had to forsake my salary in the process.
Katie Raine, PgCert Occupational Health and Safety Management
Would you like to earn a salary while you get a Bachelor's (undergraduate) or Master's (postgraduate) degree?
How about not having to pay tuition fees?
Degree apprenticeships allow you to work as an employee while you study part time, with your employer or the Government covering your fees.
You combine academic study with practical experience, gaining the knowledge and skills you need for a successful career in the forces or beyond.
Browse degree apprenticeships
Studying a Master’s degree or other postgraduate qualification can advance your career prospects within the military or take you in a new direction elsewhere.
We design our courses in collaboration with industry to make sure you learn the skills employers need.
You’ll gain in-depth knowledge and understanding of your discipline, get practical experience in a setting similar to what you'll experience in your career and carry out independent study and research.
Many of our Master’s courses give you the option to study full-time, part-time or online, plus some courses have a January start.
With over 140 programmes to choose from, we can help you get to where you want to be.
Browse postgraduate taught courses
Sometimes known as a 'while-you-work PhD', Professional Doctorates are internationally recognised qualifications.
They’re ideal for working professionals in the private and public sectors who are interested in work-based research.
Unlike a PhD, a professional doctorate is not training for a career in academia, but an opportunity to combine your professional practice with a research degree.
This means you'll complete your doctorate while you continue in your current role.
Browse professional doctorates
Whether you want to learn more about a specific area relevant to your career or work towards a university qualification, we have more than 100 short training and development courses to choose from.
We develop our courses and training programmes with researchers and industry experts to make sure they're relevant to your needs and ambitions.
Many of our short courses and CPD training programmes carry academic credits and have professional accreditation.
This means you can choose courses that interest you and build up credit over time to work towards a University certificate or award.
You can study our short courses on campus with access to our facilities, equipment and resources.
Alternatively, some of our courses are available through distance learning online, allowing you to study from home or work.
Browse short courses

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/probation-officer-training:
Help reduce re-offending and cut crime
As a probation officer you'll work directly with offenders in the community and in prisons to support them to make positive changes .
Through your training you will gain the insight and skills to  support offenders on their rehabilitation journeys by challenging behaviour, helping them to make better life choices.
The trainee probation officer programme supports you in becoming a qualified probation officer through achieving the BA (Hons) Community Justice, which, combined with the vocational qualification, is the Professional Qualification in Probation (PQiP).
Our training is delivered by subject specialists and many of our academic staff have worked as probation officers in the past.
We hold contracts with the Ministry of Justice to train probation officers in England and Wales, and are contracted to deliver all aspects of the Community Justice Learning framework in the following Probation Regions:
The trainee probation officer programme (PQiP) is the only route to becoming a probation officer.
Combining vocational training with higher education study the length of PQiP programme will be dependent on your previous education attainment.
You’ll develop practical and academic learning skills to work as a probation services officer (PSO) while you study and become a probation officer when you qualify.
As a PSO, you'll complete various tasks including compiling in-depth reports for court, undertaking risk assessments and supervising offenders on a one-to-one basis.
You will also have a range of placements such as working in court and prison.
The trainee probation officer programme is a full-time, 15-month, 21-month or 27-month work-based training course (length dependent on previous education experience).
Part-time options are also available for the 15 and 21-month programmes.
The academic study will be completed via distance learning and includes online seminars, engagement with online learning materials and regular contact with your personal tutor
You’ll need to have empathy and resilience to help people to make positive changes.
You will also need to evidence your ability to connect with people in difficult situations.
Whilst you do not need to have to have previously worked with people with convictions, you do need to demonstrate transferable skills.
This route is open to anyone with a minimum level 3 qualification  (including level 3 certificate, level 3 NVQ, AS level, A Level)
This route is open to anyone with a recognised qualification at Level 5 or above (including a Diploma of Higher Education, Foundation, Honours Degree, Higher Apprenticeship).
Assignment to the 21-month or 15-month programme will be dependant on your ability to evidence studying the required knowledge modules.
To qualify for the 15-month pathway you will be a degree holder and have evidence of having obtained 3 of the following 4 required Knowledge Modules at level 5 or above:
These Knowledge Modules are available within the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice Undergraduate Programmes .
If you are unable to evidence 3 or more of the required Knowledge Modules then you will be assigned to the 21-month PQiP programme.
As a distance learner on a professional programme there is more focus on independent study, but you'll get lots of support via video and phone from teaching and support staff to enhance your learning experience and help you succeed.
The Community Justice Learning Team also produce Probation Perspectives: Insights into Community Justice.
This is the podcast where we explore the world of probation, rehabilitation, and community justice—diving into the key themes, challenges, and skills that shape effective probation practice
Listen now
You'll have help from dedicated learning development and engagement tutors who work solely with probation students.
This includes 1–2–1 support as well as courses and workshops that help you better manage stress, anxiety or depression.
Application is through HMPPS only.
For further information about the programme and details on how to apply please refer to the information here .
Community Justice Learning Team
cjl@port.ac.uk
We offer short courses in many aspects of criminal justice, from working with victims of crime or missing persons, to those on intellectual property crime and illicit trade.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/contact:
Find out more about our degree apprenticeships and work-based degrees
If you can't find the answers you need in our Studying While Working page, you can contact us with any questions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/exchanges-and-study-abroad/exchange-inbound-students:
Find out about a UK study exchange with us
Welcome to the University of Portsmouth, a truly international institution in a proudly multicultural city!
Each year, we welcome exchange students from our partner universities all around the world and now we are waiting for you.
The exchange programme at our University encourages you to develop personally and professionally by gaining valuable international experience, broadening your horizons, experiencing new cultures and discovering new ways of working.
You can join our exchange programme for either one term (semester) or full academic year and take the academic credits earned here back to your home institution.
You'll study in classes, attend lectures and take part in seminars and tutorial classes alongside our full-time students, gaining invaluable experience of a different country, a different way of teaching, and much more.
The University is located in the city centre with walking distance to all university buildings, students halls, shops and the seafront.
Portsmouth is a great place to live and a vibrant city surrounded by the sea.
Discover why our students love living here and what it’s like to live and study in Portsmouth.
To be eligible for the exchange programme, your home university needs to have an exchange agreement with the University of Portsmouth, in the subject area you wish to study.
Your exchange can last either one term (semester) or full year, depending on the arrangements in the agreement.
If your home university has an exchange link with us, in the subject you are interested in, then the home Academic Coordinator will officially nominate you to study at the University of Portsmouth.
Then, our Global Mobility team will provide you with the Application Guide and a link to the online application portal.
Applications to the exchange programme can only be made via online application portal.
As a nominated student, you must successfully complete at least one year of academic studies at home institution and meet our entry requirements.
In order to process your application smoothly, we would require these documents:
Once the application has been submitted, we will review it and contact you if any further information is required.
Please note that your application will be fully accepted when an Unconditional Offer has been issued.
We strongly advise all applicants to submit their application as soon as possible and do not make any travel or accommodation arrangements until an unconditional offer is in place.
If you have any questions related to your application, please email: exchange-admissions@port.ac.uk
As an exchange student coming from our partner institution, you can study modules relevant to your subject at your home university.
The University of Portsmouth offers an amazing opportunity to explore modules and topics that interest you the most and will make a positive impact on your studies!
Choose what you'll study
When you make your application, you'll submit your module choices and these will be considered by the relevant department.
Modules are either taught in Teaching Block 1 (semester 1) or Teaching Block 2 (semester 2).
Teaching Block 1 lasts from September to January and Teaching Block 2 lasts from February to June.
See our academic calendar and key dates .
We will endeavour to deliver courses and modules in keeping with the course and module descriptions on our website, but reserve the right to change the content, timetabling, administration and other organisation of courses, subject to maintaining equivalent academic and quality standards.
From time to time the modules you have selected may not be available due to timetabling clashes, spaces on the modules, prerequisite requirements and module or course availability.
The University will work with you to find alternative arrangements that are suitable for you and in such instances will support you in securing approval from your home institution to undertake the alternative modules.
You can read the full terms and conditions for exchange and study abroad module offering.
If you have any questions regarding your module choices, please email: incoming@port.ac.uk
All students applying to study on an exchange programme, need to apply for a correct visa to study in the UK, depending on the mobility duration:
VISAS FOR 6 MONTHS OR LESS If the exchange programme lasts for 6 months or less, applicants will need to apply for a visa from the ‘ Standard Visitor for the purpose of study ’ category.
The ‘Standard Visitor for the purpose of Study’ visa can’t be extended and applicants aren’t permitted to work on this visa.
Please see further information about this visa .
VISAS FOR MORE THAN 6 MONTHS If the exchange programme lasts for more than 6 months, applicants will need to apply for a Student Route visa.
Applicants cannot switch to the Student Route visa in the UK if you have entered as a Standard Visitor.
You must apply in your home country.
A Student Route visa for an Exchange programme cannot be extended in the UK.
For both types of visa some applicants may need to apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate if your course and nationality require it.
Please note that visa regulations can change at any point and students need to ensure they apply for the appropriate type of visa by visiting the UK Government's website .
For any queries about making a visa application please contact the International Student Advice team by emailing student-visa@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/exchanges-and-study-abroad/study-abroad-programme:
Study with us for a semester or a full academic year
Each year, we welcome students from our partner universities all around the world and now, we are waiting for you.
Our Study Abroad programme will encourage you to develop personally and professionally by gaining valuable international experience, broadening your horizons, experiencing new cultures and discovering new ways of working.
You can join our Study Abroad programme for either one term (semester) or a full academic year and take the academic credits earned here back to your home institution.
The University is located in the city centre with all university buildings, students halls, shops and the seafront within walking distance.
As a Study Abroad student, you'll have the opportunity to choose modules from across all five of our faculties that best corresponds with your current studies – either Business and Law, Science and Health, Humanities and Social Sciences, Creative and Cultural Industries, or Technology.
All Study Abroad students study in classes, attend lectures and take part in seminars and tutorial classes alongside our full-time students, gaining invaluable experience of a different country, a different way of teaching, and so much more.
You can search for these modules by their code or name on our module catalogue.
To be eligible for the Study Abroad programme, you must successfully complete at least one year of academic studies at your home university and meet all entry requirements:
You can study with us for either one term (semester) or full year, depending on your preferences and arrangement with your home university.
All applications to the Study Abroad programme can only be made via the online application portal.
To apply, please email our Global Mobility team to express your interest and receive the Application Guide, including a link to the online application portal.
Deadline for applications for September 2025 is 30 May 2025.
Deadline for applications for January 2026 is 28 November 2025.
If you have any questions related to your application, please email: incoming@port.ac.uk
After your studies are completed, we will produce a Transcript of Records, which includes all grades and credits achieved.
A transcript will be sent electronically to your UoP email address in July, after the Boards of Examiners take place.
Please note that if you are studying with us in the first semester only (September - January), you will not receive the official Transcript until July, however, an interim copy can be requested from the Faculty.
*If you are an EU/EEA national, the EU Scholarship is applied to your tuition fees so you pay the same amount as a UK student.
Once you receive an offer to study with us, you'll need to pay a non-refundable £2,000 deposit to confirm your place.
This deposit will count towards your tuition fees.
You can choose to pay your tuition fees in full or in two separate instalments.
See tuition fees for International Students for more information.
All students applying to study on an exchange programme, need to apply for a correct visa to study in the UK, depending on the duration of study:
VISAS FOR 6 MONTHS OR LESS If the Study Abroad programme lasts for 6 months or less, applicants will need to apply for a visa from the ‘ Standard Visitor for the purpose of study ’ category.
VISAS FOR MORE THAN 6 MONTHS If the Study Abroad programme lasts for more than 6 months, applicants will need to apply for a Student Route visa .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/exchanges-and-study-abroad/outbound-mobility-study-or-work-abroad:
Where you can go and what you can do
There are many different ways to achieve a global experience abroad.
Whether you are looking for the classic study exchange for a semester or year, experience working overseas in your chosen field or a short term research placement, we’ve got you covered.
We have different options for studying abroad depending on your chosen subject area.
If you are interested in gaining work experience during a sandwich year, doing this abroad can be a fantastic addition to your CV!
Not only are you able to test out a career path you may be interested in, but you are able to challenge yourself further and gain new skills by doing this in a different country.
Don’t speak a second language?
No problem at all!
All of our study abroad opportunities are delivered in English (unless you are studying a languages degree).
To gain a place with one of our exchange partners, you will go through an internal application process.
This usually takes place in the second year (with the exception of the International Business course).
You won’t need to do any of this before you apply to the University of Portsmouth.
Information will be provided to you during Welcome Week at Fresher's Fayre and throughout your first year of study.
More information can be found on our MyPort webpages .
We also have a dedicated Moodle site that you can enrol onto once you are registered at the University.
This Moodle site contains all of the information you will need and provides an easy guide on how to apply for your study or work mobility and funding to support yourself while you are abroad.
The University of Portsmouth has a number of exchange partnerships which enable undergraduate students from all subject areas to apply to study with them for one semester or a full academic year (depending on individual course restrictions).
The semester or year abroad mobility will be recorded on your University of Portsmouth transcript when you graduate, and you will also receive a transcript from the partner university for the period of time you spent there.
As an exchange student, you would not pay any tuition fees to the partner university, but you would be expected to cover accommodation, travel and general living costs.
You may be eligible to apply for additional funding to support your exchange mobility.
Exchange spaces at the partner universities are limited, therefore your application will be assessed by nominated colleagues in your faculty, and you may be invited to attend an informal interview as part of the process.
We advise you to speak to your exchange coordinator prior to starting your application.
If you're not sure who to contact, send an email to goabroad@port.ac.uk and we will point you in the right direction!
If you are successful in your application, you will be formally nominated to the chosen partner university, and will be contacted by them in order to begin their exchange student application process.
If you choose to do an activity abroad for at least 4 weeks, then you will have the opportunity to apply for an external grant from the Turing Scheme.
You don’t have to do this alone, our team is here to help guide you through the process.
The grant helps to pay for any extra costs of living overseas, such as your rent, food or bills, but you shouldn't rely on it as your main budget, or to cover your initial costs.
There is also extra funding available from the Turing Scheme to support students from low-income backgrounds, those with special educational needs and disabilities.
Whatever your background, we can help you!
Contact us by emailing goabroad@port.ac.uk to find out more.
In addition, you may also have access to other sources of funding, such as the Student Maintenance Loan, local and regional government grants or existing savings.
We have study destinations around the world.
Where you can go will depend on the subject area you choose to study.
Our current destinations, partner universities and areas of study are listed below either by school, faculty or our University Wide Exchange programme.
You can also link directly to our partner universities' websites from there.
LaSalle College of the Arts
Technische Universitat Wien
RWTH Aachen University
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
University of Ljubljana
Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts
Nagoya University of Foreign Studies
National Taiwan Normal University
Ghent University
Charles University
University of Southern Denmark
Christian-Albrechts Universitat zu Kiel
University of Luxembourg
Maastricht University
The Hague University of Applied Sciences
Universidad de Malaga
Halmstad University
University of Prince Edward Island
Hochschule Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences
University of Applied Art, Design and Media, Stuttgart
Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht
Breda University of Applied Sciences
Uppsala Universitet
VIVES University of Applied Sciences
Berlin School of Economics and Law
AVANS University of Applied Sciences
Justice Institute of British Columbia
Utica College
Jonkoping University (School of Engineering)
Universitat Bremen
Memorial University of Newfoundland
University of Manitoba
Howest University of Applied Science
Danish School of Media and Journalism
CEU Universidad San Pablo
Dalarna University
Beijing International Studies University
Universite de Mons
Universite Lumiere Lyon 2
Universite de Tours
Universite Toulouse Jean Jaures
Hochschule Flensburg University of Applied Sciences
Philipps-Universitat Marburg
University of Erfurt
Universita Degli Studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia
Universidad de Alcala
Universidad de Granada
Universidad de Zaragoza
Universidad Diego Portales
Universidad de Montevideo
Universidad de Navarra
Universitat Mannheim
University of Wurzburg
Brock University
University of Western Ontario
Trinity University
Beijing Technology and Business University
Lingnan University
Nagasaki University
Yokohama City University
Solbridge International School of Business, Woosong University
Konkuk University
Kasetsart University (Faculty of Economics)
UCLL University of Applied Sciences
University of Zagreb - Faculty of Economics & Business
Prague University of Economics and Business
Masaryk University
Ecole de Management de Normandie
EDC Paris Business School
EDHEC Business School
IDRAC Business School
Montpellier Business School
NEOMA Business School
Rennes School of Business
SKEMA Business School
University of Lille
Fachhochschule Dortmund, Univ.
Applied Sciences & Arts
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Corvinus University of Budapest
Universita Degli Studi di Padova
Universita Degli Studi di Roma 'Tor Vergata'
Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences
Hanze University of Applied Sciences, Groningen
Zuyd Unieversity of Applied Sciences
University of Bergen
Wroclaw University of Economics
IQS Universitat Ramon Llull
Universidad Loyola Andalucia
Universidad Nebrija
Jonkoping University (Jonkoping International Business School)
Linkoping University
ZHAW School of Management and Law
University of Manitoba (Asper School of Business)
San Jose State University
Southeast Missouri State University
Western Carolina University
University of Southern Queensland
Taylor's University
Ecole Brassart
Universiti Malaysia Pahang
Universiti Teknologi Petronas
Dankook University
Kyung Hee University
University of Danang
Rhodes College
Edith Cowan University
The above partner universities and destinations are accurate at the time of publication.
However, please note that these are subject to change.
Students are advised to check with their Exchange Coordinator or the Global Mobility Team when choosing their destination.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/exchanges-and-study-abroad/choose-what-youll-study:
A catalogue of modules from our faculties
Modules are either taught in Teaching Block 1 or Teaching Block 2, and this is indicated below.
Module Catalogue
From time to time the modules you have selected may not be available due to timetabling clashes, spaces on the modules, pre-requisites requirements and module or course availability.
Material Expression
(If not attending the module M24223) Students need to have a completed suitable design project to link  with elements of this module (to be agreed with module coordinator)
Thesis (To take this module students need to complete M30984 in TB1)
10
*These modules require pre-requisites if you wish to study them.
Please check the module catalogue for more information.
Commercial Asset Production for Real Time
(Requires prior 3D modelling experience, 3DS Max)
The following modules are available in Teaching Block 1, Teaching Block 2 and Full Year (please indicate your CEFRL on your Learning Agreement)
*These modules are specific to our BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology programme.
If you're interested in any of these modules, and already have some background knowledge in forensic psychology, you should not also select “Perspectives on Legal & Forensic Psychology” because this is an introductory course normally exclusive to students on the BSc Psychology programme).
This is to avoid duplication of content.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/portsmouth-community/university-of-portsmouth-ranks-12th-in-ratemyplacements-best-universities-for-work-experience-202526:
20 February 2025
This means we’re now the highest-ranked university in our region and one of the best in the UK for work experience opportunities - as rated by our own students.
This achievement reflects our dedication to preparing students for successful careers.
Work placements make a real difference - students who complete a placement are more likely to secure a professional job after graduation and earn £4,500 on average more per year than those who don’t.
Our ranking reflects the excellent support and opportunities we provide to help students gain valuable real-world experience.
RateMyPlacement is a highly respected platform in the careers sector, providing honest student reviews on placements, internships, and work experience.
With over 70,000 reviews, it’s a trusted resource for students and employers alike.
The Best Universities for Work Experience table is based entirely on student feedback, making our ranking an authentic reflection of the outstanding support and opportunities we provide.
Real-world experience is just as important as academic learning.
That’s why we’ve worked hard to enhance career support, industry connections, and hands-on opportunities through events and initiatives such as our Changemaker Challenges and Career Readiness and Employability Days (CRED).
This ranking celebrates our commitment to helping students gain practical skills, build confidence, and start their careers.
Completing a placement isn’t just a great experience—it makes a real difference to career prospects.
For students who haven't done a placement, 69.9% are in professional employment after graduation, 93.3% are in work or further study, and their average salary is £25,755.
For students who have done a placement, 85.5% are in professional employment after graduation, 98% are in work or further study, and their average salary is £30, 256.
Our students’ experiences prove just how valuable work placements are.
Eleanor Ready, a current placement student, shares her thoughts:
I couldn’t recommend doing a placement year enough, especially for those thinking of entering a fast-paced industry like fashion.
It’s been such an amazing learning experience, and I continue to develop new skills that will help me in my final year of studies and future career.
Eleanor Ready, Placement student
We’re committed to expanding industry partnerships, enhancing career support, and inspiring more students to embrace work experience opportunities.
Our upcoming Make You Summer Count: Employer Showcase on Wednesday 5 March is another great opportunity to connect students with employers who offer local and national part-time roles and internships.
Thank you to our staff, students, and partners for making Portsmouth a top destination for career-focused learning.
Want to learn more about placements?
Contact the careers team .
22 May 2024
1 minute
15 May 2024
2 mins
30 April 2024

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment/placement-year-degrees:
Discover the benefits and opportunities of a placement year degree
A placement year degree (also known as a sandwich degree) is a chance to apply the skills you learn on your course in the workplace, and to increase your employability when you graduate.
Most employers prefer to hire graduates who have professional work experience alongside their studies, so choosing a placement year helps to put you ahead in the job market.
Many of our students are hired by their placement employer after graduation.
You don't have to work for a company during your placement year — if you have a business idea, you can choose a self-employed placement year to start your own business.
Placement year degrees are an opportunity to apply your degree learning by working for a year in industry before you graduate.
Your placement usually takes place before the final year of your degree, so this is also known as a sandwich year placement.
At Portsmouth, you can complete your placement before or after your final study year.
You'll spend your placement year working for an employer or setting up your own business, and experience what it's like to work in your potential career.
For students seeking a placement I would say to absolutely do it, there is no wasted experience.
Do everything you could possibly do and step out of your comfort zone, you will learn a lot about yourself.
Ainhoa Rohrbeck, Pompey in the Community and Advice Portsmouth placement student, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Studies
Your placement year needs to relate to your degree — but what you do is up to you.
If you started your studies from September 2024, you can choose to carry out your placement after your final year.
On some of our courses, you can do your placement year abroad.
Our students have travelled to countries including Japan, Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland, Malaysia, America and Spain during their sandwich year.
If you choose to start up a business during a self-employed placement year, you'll be doing it in the UK's most entrepreneurial city 2020 (Instant Offices) and we'll give you all the support you need .
Undertaking a placement year enabled me to gain work experience and increase my employability whilst still a student.
Heading abroad not only gave me the opportunity to travel halfway around the world to learn a second language but also to engage and immerse myself in the local culture and communities, an experience I could only dream about from Portsmouth.
Samuel Bladen-Hovell, Otra Cosa Network, Peru and British Council (Spain) placement student, BA (Hons) International Development
Our Placement Officers can help you find a suitable placement, or help you prepare for a self-employed placement year.
We have links with many organisations and companies from various industries.
On some courses, like health and care professions courses , your course team chooses your placement for you to ensure you get appropriate experiences to meet your degree needs.
You'll pay a discounted tuition fee to the University while you're on placement, and need to consider your living costs and how you'll support yourself financially.
The cost of your sandwich year placement, and any Student Finance England funding you're eligible for, depends on the type and location of your placement.
Your placement year will be assessed by a portfolio of evidence.
Your portfolio could include a placement diary, a reflective analysis of your your personal development, a reference from your placement provider, among other items.
This assessment doesn't apply if you take a language year abroad .
We'll help you find the best placement for your studies, and connect you with businesses who partner with us like multinational pharmaceutical companies, national health trusts, national sports clubs and schools across the UK.
Optional work placements are periods of time spent in employment with organisations in the private, public or third sectors.
Optional work placements differ from mandatory placements which are a compulsory element of the learning experience within professional courses e.g.
teaching, nursing and social work.
Connected Degrees give students the choice to take an optional work placement either as a traditional sandwich year (between your second and third year of studies) or, if they prefer, after their course.
It's important for students to be aware that many placement roles are aimed specifically at students in their penultimate year of study.
So, students are strongly advised to seek early advice from the placement team to avoid missing opportunities that might only be available as a sandwich placement.
Placements typically last from 9-12 months and, for international students due to current UKVI legislation, placements must be completed by the course end date.
All placements are subject to an approval process and students should speak with the Placements Team for more information on any requirements to approve a placement role
They have a number of potential benefits, including:
Taking an optional work placement at the end of your degree course has a number of potential benefits, including:
Whether you choose to pursue an optional work placement as a sandwich option, or at the end of your course, optional work placements are not guaranteed.
It is the responsibility of students to apply for and secure an optional work placement, with support from the University.
All optional work placements remain subject to approval by the University using its standard process and in line with the University’s Optional Placement Policy.
Each year, around 20-30 Home Students choose to undertake a Self-Employed Placement during their course, in which they are supported to start their own business.
Students opting for a Self-Employed Placement (or SEP) are given advice and support throughout their placement year, including access to office space on campus from which to operate.
This option is not available to students as a Connected Degree after graduation, although UK graduates can still access ongoing advice and support to start businesses.
International students are not permitted to undertake Self-Employed Placements either during or after their course, as their Student Visa, or Home Office legislation, do not allow them to engage in business activities including starting a business.
Every home and international undergraduate student starting a full-time undergraduate course from September 2024 is able to undertake an optional work placement at the end of their course, with specific rules for international students under Home Office legislation.
The option is not available to postgraduate students.
International students on a visa must seek advice from the international student advice team on visa extensions and registration dates when considering their options.
Home students who choose to take an optional work placement after their course will graduate with their cohort at the end of their final year of study.
Due to Home Office regulations, international students who secure an optional work placement after their course, will graduate after completing their placement and assessment.
This will be a year after their undergraduate course finishes.
You will receive the same award whether or not you complete a placement.
If you secure a placement offer, and complete and pass the placement year, there will be an acknowledgement on your degree transcript to show that you completed the placement year.
Students can choose to work or study abroad as a sandwich year and then take a post-study work placement.
However, students cannot take a study abroad year at the end of their course, and they cannot take two work placements.
Find out more about study abroad option
Optional work placements, during or after your course, can have a lot of benefits.
However, not every student can, or will want to, do an optional work placement.
There are  other opportunities at the University, within and outside of our courses, for students to gain valuable work or voluntary experience.
These include opportunities available through the Students' Union, such as being a Course Rep or taking on a leadership role in one of our many clubs and societies, and volunteering with a local organisation through the Careers and Employability Service.
Students gaining additional experiences like these can gain recognition through our Portsmouth Award, which can be added to your CV or LinkedIn profile.
If you want to increase your work experience, but an optional work placement isn't for you, visit our Careers and Employability Service for advice.
The Careers and Employability Service work very closely with students to support them with their placement search by providing tips on how to search for roles, providing 1-2-1 CV and application feedback, interview preparation, and more.
We also run a weekly Placement Club in the Careers and Employability Service, faculty placement events, drop in and bookable appointments available each day, that students can book to discuss their placement search, and placement sessions included in our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Whether you choose to do your optional work placement during or after your undergraduate course, you will get support with:
For the avoidance of doubt, the responsibility is on the student to search for, and secure, a placement offer within the deadlines set out in our university-wide approval process.
The University does not match students to placements and the selection processes are managed by employers/placement providers.
Placements can take place between the 2nd and 3rd year of studies, or after the final year of studies under the Connected Degree option.
The placement opportunities are advertised and the students apply directly to employers as part of a competitive process.
The number of placements available varies year on year, depending on the labour market in the sector the student wishes to go in.
We support students through their placement search, and advertise a range of placement opportunities with employers.
Students can also search for opportunities through external websites (e.g.
Rate My Placement or Target Jobs or Gradcracker, etc.) and make their own speculative applications.
Students can apply for placements advertised by us on our jobs board, or they can identify their own.
Either way, once an offer is in place, the placement MUST be approved by the Placement Team who will carry out further checks (in line with our approval process and optional placements policy) to ensure the placement is suitable, and establish an agreement with the placement provider to manage the relationship.
Home students will pay a reduced tuition fee to undertake a sandwich placement, currently set at 15% of the full tuition fee for each year.
There is currently no fee for home students to undertake an optional work placement after their course.
International students will pay 15% of their tuition fee for their placement year, regardless of whether this is taken as a sandwich placement or after their course.
Home students choosing an optional work placement as a sandwich year may be eligible for a tuition fee and reduced maintenance loan.
They should contact the University’s Student Finance Team for detailed individual advice but, in broad terms, the maintenance loan for the placement year is based on the placement location, salary, and residence (i.e.
whether living at home or elsewhere).
Optional work placements taken after our undergraduate degree courses are not eligible for Student Finance support under current rules.
Students who plan to take their placement as a sandwich must communicate notice of the accepted placement offer by the end of July in their second year of study.
Students who plan to take their placement at the end of their degree, must communicate notice of the accepted placement offer by mid-February in the final year of their studies.
We anticipate that the majority of optional placements students will continue to take their placement between second and third year.
However, some students will feel that the end of courset option is more suitable for them.
This is important for students to seek advice early from our placement team to ensure they are supported to make the right choice for them, taking into account their career aspirations and the sectors they are hoping to work in.
This is important because the early career structures in some industries are still built around the ‘sandwich’ placement so students will need to plan to take their placement at that point if they wish to secure a placement within those industries.
Decisions to take a placement are usually made early in your second or third year – depending on when you choose to take your placement.
Careers and Employability can help you decide before you start looking for opportunities.Once you've decided, our Careers and Employability Team will support you through the recruitment process as you search and apply for placements.
All students undertaking an optional work placement will be required to undertake a pass/fail assessment.
Details of this assessment, including submission deadlines, will be communicated to students before starting their placement.
You can work in many different placement roles across a wide range of sectors, whatever your subject.
If you already know what you want to study, you can find specific placement information on your course page .
Previous placement students have completed placement years in areas like project management, engineering, photography, audiobook publishing, forensic accounting, and more.
Our students have an impact too.
One fashion intern at FatFace had her design sold on the high street, while another one of our students was a runner on a film starring Michael Caine , and one students worked at Paris Fashion Week while on placement with Paul Smith.
Find out about some specific placements you could choose for your subject on your course page.
Our students have completed placements as roles including:
Our previous students have done placements at companies including:
18 January 2024
Jamie turned his love of practical learning into a successful placement year, which opened up great career opportunities.
2 November 2023
3 minutes
" The University resources helped me to secure my placement through guidance of applications and interviews."
26 April 2024
1 June 2023
Hear from some of our placement year students - Finlay, who took a placement at NBC Universal, Anastasia, who found a place at St Vincent College, and Charley, who took a role at Castle View Academy.
Find out about their experiences and hear what advice they have to give other students.
Finlay: I've loved every moment of my placement.
It's probably one of the most fantastic years I've ever done in my life, probably one of the best things I've ever done.
Emily Parry: The school covers area studies, sociology, history, politics and literature.
There are a number of different placement opportunities that are based locally or nationally around the UK, covering lots of different sectors and areas.
So there's something there for everybody.
Finlay: Before university, I was always somebody that really didn't want to rush university.
I wanted to try a placement year out, which was something that I'd love to do, and here we are today at NBC Universal.
I got very, very lucky with it, but it's great.
Emily Parry: One of the misconceptions about placements and work experience for humanities students is that it would be very restricted on the kind of things that they can do.
Finlay: As a politics student, obviously I do love politics, but it's the other interests you have outside of politics.
I love my films, I love my TV series, so I work in an environment selling content that I love.
Anastasia: Since about year ten, I knew I wanted to be a teacher.
The work placement has definitely put it in perspective that it’s still what I want to do and it means that I don't have to go into a PGCE placement completely unaware of what I have to do.
It gives me the experience of what a teacher actually needs to do and what their role is in a college.
Charley: Teaching is something I find quite natural to do.
It wasn't really to do with my degree, but I found it was quite easy to interlink the two.
So I was able to run a politics club here and it was really quite inspiring to see how enlightened the students were and how knowledgeable they were about current day events, and went from there, really.
Emily Parry: What I love about placements is seeing the students when they come back and you can see the development in them of the confidence that they've built and their ability to communicate and work as part of a team.
Charley: Before, I really struggled with public speaking.
So standing in front of an audience is not something I would initially choose to do, and for some people, standing in front of 30 children is even more scary than standing in front of adults.
Finlay: University of Portsmouth really helped me with confidence and the ability to speak, which I've then brought into NBCU where I present in front of my managers once a month.
Charley: Having that sort of exposure was really, really important to me.
For students who want to do a placement, I would just say go for it.
Anastasia: It’s a brilliant opportunity to put yourself in a workplace environment with loads and loads of support.
Finlay: Just put everything into it because it really is a year that's really helped me feel a lot more confident going into my final year of university.
Emily Parry: It's the best feeling when a student gets that placement because you know the opportunities that's going to open up for them with their future career.
Are you ready to increase your employment opportunities and strengthen your skills by doing a sandwich year degree?
Browse our placement degree courses now.
Browse our degree courses with work placement
Get excellent careers support during your degree and for 5 years after graduation.
We help you find part-time and graduate jobs, volunteering and work experience.
As a Portsmouth student, you'll get lots of work experience opportunities to try out job roles, apply your skills to different sectors and increase your employability.
If you've got a passion for entrepreneurship and a great idea for a new business, we can help you get up and running.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/health-and-wellbeing:
Discover the health and wellbeing services you can access when you study with us
Coming to university is exciting, but it can also be a challenge.
Big life changes like moving cities or starting university can impact your mental health, physical health and your wellbeing — so you'll have access to lots of support when you get here.
In regard to the extra help and support with uni work and student wellbeing, it was nice to know the Uni offered a lot of different services.
Lyncia Mande, BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics
From the moment you start with us, our Student Wellbeing Service is on hand to provide personal and emotional support, mental health support and counselling.
They organise workshops, courses and events throughout the academic year.
And, as we know living away from home for the first time can be daunting, you'll also have access to free confidential welfare support and advice from our Residence Life Team when you move into your university halls accommodation.
They manage the welfare and concerns of students living in our halls of residence .
Find out more about each of these wellbeing services on MyPort, our student site, below.
Already a student with us?
Find out more about looking after your mental health while studying .
Learn more about each of these sources of support on MyPort:
If you live in Portsmouth while studying with us, you can register as a patient at a local doctor's and dentist's surgery for NHS advice and support.
You can book appointments, request repeat prescriptions and view your GP record and tests results online.
You can also keep fit by getting a student membership to our Ravelin Sport Centre facilities from as little as £15.99 per month.
As one of the UK's greenest sports centres, you can enjoy our eight-lane swimming pool, 175 station fitness suite, climbing wall and Les Mills classes.
Already studying at Portsmouth?
Read our advice for looking after your physical health while you're at university.
Learn more about the support you'll have access to when you study with us.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/scholarships-and-bursaries:
You may be able to partly or fully fund the costs of your study with a bursary or scholarship

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/study-and-student-life/save-on-travel-when-you-come-to-our-open-days:
5 August 2025
Visiting the University of Portsmouth has never been more affordable, no matter how you choose to travel.
When visiting us for an Undergraduate Open Day, we’ve partnered with major transport providers to help you save as much as 50% on your journey.
1.
Save on trains Get up to 35% off with South Western Railway and 20% off with Great Western Railway , making train travel both easy and budget-friendly.
2.
Coach travel discounts Prefer to travel by coach?
Enjoy 30% off with National Express , offering a comfortable and cost-effective way to reach us from across the UK.
3.
Set sail and save Coming from the Isle of Wight?
Take advantage of 50% off Wightlink ferry crossings, making your visit smooth and scenic.
4.
Drive and park with ease We also offer free parking on campus for visitors who wish to drive to Open Days.
5.
Avoid city centre hassle Use our convenient Park & Ride service for just £4 per day , letting you avoid the hassle of city centre parking altogether.
No matter how you travel, we’re making it easier and cheaper to experience everything Portsmouth has to offer.
Start planning your visit today and take advantage of these great travel savings!

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days/self-guided-tour:
Spend a day walking through our campus and exploring the city
Our port city has always been a gateway.
And we’re at its heart.
Begin your journey of discovery now and get closer to a place that’s buzzing with purpose and possibility.
If you can't make it to an Open Day or you'd like to take another look around, this self-guided tour will give you a feel for the campus and the city.
Bookmark this page to follow the route below or download our Walking Tour PDF for a more detailed itinerary.
You can use our locations page to find the addresses of these buildings.
Find your route on a map
With your next step, everything changes.
Take a walk into your future.
Louise Bradley
Welcome to the University of Portsmouth Campus Walking Tour.
Newton Okwuoha
This introduction to some of our key buildings will give you a flavour of what you can expect living and studying in Portsmouth’s city campus and show you just how easy it is to get around.
We start here outside Ravelin Sports Centre, a brand new facility which includes an eight court sports hall.
A 25 metre swimming pool, squash courts, fitness suites, a climbing wall and even a ski simulator.
Connor Munro-Flanagan
There's more to the library than books.
We have over 750 computers and laptops available for use, social study spaces, a café, and we're open 24 hours during term time.
Matilda Ben-Agbo
Right next to the library is the Students’ Union, which offers a range of services, including student advice and also support.
They also offer over 200 student-led activities, including the Entrepreneur Society, which I'm a part of.
Big shout out to those guys.
Victoria house supports courses from the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice, including real-to-life crime scene rooms and forensic labs so that students can learn practical skills in a simulated environment.
This is University House.
It's home to our Student Finance, Student Housing, our University’s Global team, as well as being one of our MyPort Hubs.
At Careers and Employability, you can get support finding a job during your studies, get your CV checked and get advice on job applications, covering letters and interviews.
We're now outside Trafalgar, a self-catered halls of residence with ensuite rooms organised as flats.
Trafalgar is one of the 10 halls of residence which provide student accommodation in the city.
Each of them has their own flavour, so whether you’re looking for self-catered or catered, shared flats, studios, something in the heart of the city, or to be closer to the beach, there's something for everyone.
Eldon is home to our Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries, ranging from everything from Film and Media to Arts and Design, all the way to Journalism and Architecture.
It's also home to our Centre for Creative and Immersive XR, a one-of-a-kind facility that supports innovation in augmented, extended and virtual realities.
Within the Bateson Centre, you'll find the Academic Skills Support or ASK and also the Additional Support and Disability Advice, known as ASDAC.
If you're having a hard time or need support, you can always reach out to our friendly team at the Student Wellbeing Service.
Right in the heart of the city, Guildhall Square is home to the Guildhall, which has hosted everyone from Jimmy Carr to the Kaiser Chiefs, as well as regular events and festivals throughout the year.
The square even transforms into an ice-rink at Christmas.
Just round the corner is our historic Park Building, home to one of the UK's largest schools of languages and applied linguistics, as well as home to our largest lecture theatre on campus, making it a regular stop for students across the uni no matter what the course.
In King Henry Building, you'll find the Department of Psychology and Biological Sciences and right next door in St Michael's, you'll find mock operating theatres, radiography suites and a model pharmacy for a truly immersive learning experience.
White Swan Building is our creative hub for drama, theatre and all forms of live performances with three floors of rehearsal stages, a professional control room and a studio theatre.
Anglesea Building is home to the School of Mechanical Design Engineering and the School of Energy and Electronic Engineering.
It includes manufacturing, metrology and power electronic labs as well as a 3D printing workshop.
It's also home to the School of Law and its replica crown court.
We are now in the Northern Quarter.
In Richmond Building our business courses get access to the Bloomberg Suite, which makes available data and software used by finance professionals globally.
There's also the Business Simulation Suite and TEAL space, which merges lectures simulations and desktop experiments.
Looking round the Northern Quarter, you'll also find Dennis Sciama, home to the internationally recognised Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation and Burnaby Building, home to the School of Environment, Geography and Geosciences.
Also behind you'll find Buckingham Building and the department of Geography and the School of Computing.
Here in Portland you'll find the School of Civil Engineering and Surveying and also our Future Technology Centre, which offers spaces to carry out experiments, debates and also explore ideas about the latest technology.
Lion Gate is the home to our Mathematics department but also our Maths Café, a free resource that offers health and advice in maths and statistics to all students on any course at the University.
As we head back towards the library we have Milldam Building, which is a former military barracks that now houses historical, social and literacy studies.
We also have St George's building, which is home to the School of Education and Sociology and Institute of Criminal Justice Studies.
And we're back.
We love that our city and campus are a part of each other.
No two buildings are more than a 20 minute walk from each other and in between lectures you can hang out with your friends at restaurants, cafés and shops.
If you wanted to explore further on, we've got Gunwharf Quays, a waterfront shopping centre with 85 designer outlets, restaurants, a cinema and a bowling alley.
Beyond that, you can walk down the seafront, across the common and onto the pier.
Further out, you'll find the University's unique aquatic centre and research facilities for marine biology.
If you want to explore outside the city, we have many bus links and stations just a minute’s walk from Guildhall and the heart of our campus.
Thanks for joining us on our walking campus tour, please come and see Portsmouth in person by coming to one of our open days.
I loved the feel of the campus – almost all the teaching buildings are in the city centre, but you get the feel of a campus university because everything’s close by and interspersed with cafes, sports facilities and the library.
Holly Essen, MEng Mechanical Engineering
Portsmouth is a thriving city for small business.
You'll find some of our favourite independent cafés below to fuel your day in Portsmouth.
So grab breakfast and then head to Guildhall Walk to begin your walking tour of campus.
Explore a delicious brunch menu or select your choice of pancakes from their sweet breakfast menu.
And you can always start your day with hot chocolate and cake as a treat > thegaragelounge.co.uk
Unbelievably good breads, pastries, sandwiches and cakes, made fresh on site.
It's tiny inside, so getting a table is tricky, but the sourdough sandwiches and cinnamon buns are worth it
> breadaddiction.co.uk
Catch the U1 to Festing Road to find Hunter Gatherer, where specialty coffee and incredible brunches and lunches await – 100% of the menu is vegetarian and almost everything is vegan too > huntergatherer.coffee
Opposite St.
Andrews Court in the University quarter is Hideout – an insanely instagrammable place whose coffee and eye-popping donuts are as tasty as the interiors > @hideoutcoffeecompany
Start at the Careers and Employability Service on Guildhall Walk.
As well as advising you on your career choices, the team can help you find part-time work, volunteering opportunities, mentoring, internships and work experience.
Look up to see Rosalind Franklin Halls , student accommodation.
From the Careers and Employability Service, walk on past the bars and clubs of Guildhall Walk.
Down the first road on your left, you’ll see White Swan Building , home of our performing arts courses .
Linked to the New Theatre Royal , it has a TV studio, performance studios and music practice rooms.
On the other side of this street, just beyond Rosalind Franklin Halls, is St Michael’s Building , for pharmacy and biomedical science .
At the top of Guildhall Walk is Guildhall Square.
On the left you’ll see Portsmouth Guildhall – that’s where your graduation ceremony will happen.
Just before you get to Guildhall Square, turn left onto King Henry I Street.
Along here, you’ll find the historic Park Building on your right.
This was the first building to be part of the future University.
It's now home to one of the UK’s largest schools of language and area studies .
Ahead of you, at the end of King Henry I Street, is King Henry Building, where psychology and biological sciences are taught.
Take the pedestrian path to the right of King Henry Building .
Cross over at the traffic lights on the main road – you're now on Park Road.
The University building to your right is Anglesea Building .
It’s the home of engineering , as well as our law school and the replica law court.
Walk straight down Park Road, taking a right under the railway bridge onto Burnaby Road.
On your left is Milldam Building .
This former military barracks now houses social, historical and literary studies.
Walking further into the Northern Quarter Square you’ll see Richmond Building on your left, home of business and law , with amazing facilities including our Bloomberg Suite, SAP Lab and Business Simulation Suite.
On your right is Dennis Sciama Building , home to the Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation and The Hub, one of our students’ favourite cafes.
Just past Dennis Sciama Building and slightly set back from the square is Burnaby Building , for earth and environmental sciences and civil engineering labs.
In front of Burnaby building, you’ll find Buckingham Building where geography and computer studies happen.
Pass through the brown gates to your right and you’ll see our new £12m Future Technology Centre ahead of you.
Just behind it is Lion Gate Building , home of computing and mathematics .
To the left of the Future Technology Centre is Portland Building – an award-winning example of sustainable architecture with a hydraulics lab, great learning spaces and a café.
Portland is home to civil engineering, surveying and property development .
Exit the Northern Quarter the same way you came in under the railway bridge and stop at the crossroads.
If you head right, you'll reach Gunwharf Quays – packed with designer outlets, restaurants and the Spinnaker Tower.
And a short walk further will take you to the Historic Dockyard.
Gunwharf is a shopping outlet on the waterfront that boasts high discounts for designer brands such as Vans, Armani, Kate Spade and Nike.
It's also a great place to eat at your favourite chains, including Nando's, Five Guys, Pho and Wagamama.
> Gunwharf Quays
Our historic dockyard is home to the 16th-century Tudor navy warship, the Mary Rose, Lord Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar, HMS Victory, and the 40-gun steam-powered iron-clad warship, HMS Warrior.
Take a picnic, or grab lunch in one of the renovated boathouses.
> Portsmouth Historic Dockyard
Head back to the crossroads after lunch and go all the way along Burnaby Road.
At the end, you’ll see the University Library .
Open 24/7 in term time, it gives you access to information in all kinds of formats to help you study and research.
If you turn right and walk down to the roundabout, you’ll see St George’s Building straight ahead, opposite Portsmouth Grammar School.
Turn to your left and carry on up Cambridge Road.
On your right you’ll come to the Students’ Union – home to our social learning venue 3rd Space, the student activities centre and your Student Union representatives.
It’s a place to study, feast and chill out and a hub for all their societies.
Across the road from the Union is the Spinnaker Building home to sport and exercise science .
This purpose-built facility has world-class laboratories, including two high-specification climatic chambers, an immersion facility and an integrated swimming flume.
Head towards the Terrace Café and walk between them.
Pass under the walkway, through an area known as Gunhouse Green, with the Union on your right.
Continue along with the Library on your right.
You’re now in Ravelin Park , and you’ll come to a ‘crossroads’ level with the rear of the Library.
You will also be facing Ravelin Sports Centre .
Ravelin Sports Centre is an 'outstanding' new sports centre which is open to Students, Staff, Associates and the Public.
This facility is aiming to be net zero carbon ready and has received a top rating of ‘Outstanding’ from BREEAM UK, the world’s leading sustainability assessment for buildings.
Ravelin Sports Centre's superb facilities include:
If you carry on you’ll come to Ravelin House on your left, just before the path joins Museum Road.
This is a leading centre for all kinds of criminal justice research and studies and one of the biggest departments of its type in the UK.
If you head left at the crossroads you’ll quickly come to our Dental Academy .
Cross the road directly opposite the Students' Union building, walk past Mercantile House and take the immediate left.
Just before the main junction is St Andrew’s Court , home to the latest facilities for developing tomorrow’s health-related scientists .
Cross at the junction ahead, so you’re on the same side of the road as University House.
This is where you can speak to a member of staff from the Student Support Services.
Continue along Winston Churchill Avenue and stop at the second turning on your right – Middle Street.
On this corner, to your right, is Trafalgar Hall .
Opposite is Eldon Building , home to creative courses including architecture , art and design , creative technologies , media and performing arts .
Inside Eldon, discover a host of industry-standard facilities ranging from animation and design studios, to virtual reality and motion capture suites.
Continue along Winston Churchill Avenue and cross over at the next crossing.
Take the wide path between the Courts of Justice and Crown House.
You’ll come to Harry Law Hall on the left and Bateson Hall on the right.
Continue between the two halls, and you'll be in Guildhall Square with the Big Screen to your right.
Walk under the Civic Offices, immediately to the right of the Big Screen, and Portsmouth and Southsea train station will be ahead of you, to the right.
Turn right just before the station for more halls of residence.
At the centre of the city is Margaret Rule Hall and Greetham Street Hall .
If you retrace your steps back to the train station and turn right, passing under the railway bridge, you’ll see Catherine House to your left, on the corner of Victoria Park.
If you’d like to go back to where you began, turn around and walk towards Guildhall Square.
Pass under the Civic Offices, through the Square and keep going straight ahead, onto Guildhall Walk.
Now you're back where you started, the rest of the day is yours.
Eat out at our favourite restaurants, discover the incredible beaches, parks and piers on our doorstep or explore .
If you're staying into the evening, we've even got a guides to our favourite nightlife spots and the best places to see live music in the city.
Portsmouth is a bustling city with the sea on our doorstep and green spaces all around.
Want to get involved in Portsmouth's music scene?
Here's all you need to start.
I wanted a medium-sized city with proximity to places and I got exactly that in Portsmouth.
I get to walk everywhere without spending much money on transportation.
The seaside and beach was another factor that influenced my decision.
Rubie Targema-Takema, PhD Computing
We hope you enjoyed getting closer to Portsmouth and the University and that you're looking forward to an exciting future here.
Want to continue exploring online?
Visit our virtual experience hub for a deeper dive into our halls and facilities, and hear from current students about their experiences.
Discover how our teaching gives you everything you need to succeed.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/open-days/other-ways-to-meet-us:
You can also come to an event on campus or connect with us online
As well as our Open Days , you can catch us at UCAS Fairs and UK University Search Fairs around the country.
We also run other events both on and off campus designed to help pupils at school see themselves at uni, including our immersive Subject Taster Days.
Or why not connect with us from wherever you are, right now?
Discover our on-demand content or sign up to join a live webinar.
Our online resources are there to help you prepare for university whenever you're ready.
Jump to:
Fairs and exhibitions
Other events
Online resources
We'll be at several fairs and exhibitions this year.
Speak to us to find out more about the University, the reasons to study here and to ask questions about your course.
Our autumn schedule goes live in September 2025.
Come back then to check out where you can meet us.
We're passionate about helping pupils of all ages realise that university could be for them.
Find out how we can inspire your students on campus or at your school or college.
Access these online resources whenever you're ready.
Learn about a studying a subject you're interested in – and get the inside scoop on what the course involves and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/international-students/how-to-apply/application-deadlines:
Important deadlines for all International Applicants
There are key dates and deadlines you should note for courses starting in September 2025 .
These may be different depending on which country you are coming from.
Please see ways to pay , and ensure there is plenty of time for your deposit payment to clear.
Please note, courses may close before the deadlines listed above if they become full - this is another reason why you should aim to meet your conditions as soon as you can.
If you have any questions about these deadlines, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/work-based-degrees/course-duration-and-rpl:
Find out when you can start your course and how long it will take to complete
Learning at Work courses start in January and September, and students can generally complete their qualification within 1 to 3 years.
But you can use Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) to complete your course quicker.
With RPL, you use the learning you have gained from training courses, employment, voluntary work, private study and previous attendance at college and university towards your degree.
You can use RPL for up to two thirds of the credits you need for your degree.
On an undergraduate degree, this is up to 240 of the 360 credits you need.
Depending on your circumstances, you should expect to spend approximately:
On a postgraduate degree, you can use RPL for up to 120 of the 180 credits you need.
Most standard qualifications are equivalent to a prescribed number of credits.
A HNC is worth 120 credits at level 4, while an HND is worth 240 credits at undergraduate level (level 4 and level 5).
Some defence forces training and experience have standard RPL credit ratings.
If you don't have an eligible standard qualification or NATO Armed Forces Rank, you may be able to claim credit for what you've learnt as part of your career based on your skills and experience.
You can claim RPL when you apply for your course.
Please contact the Learning at Work office to discuss a potential RPL claim before submitting your application form.
They will be able provide guidance on what you can claim for, how many RPL credits you may be eligible for and the most appropriate form of evidence, such as providing certification or developing a portfolio of evidence.
Learning at Work team
+44 (0)23 9284 6260
learningatwork@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/work-based-degrees/benefits-of-a-work-based-degree:
Doing a work-based Learning at Work degree with us has many benefits, both to you and your employer

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/studying-while-working/work-based-degrees/how-to-apply:
Applying to our Work Based Degrees is a personal process – contact us today to find out more
You need to be employed or self-employed in a full-time, part-time or voluntary role throughout your studies.
Internships are acceptable assuming the internship lasts for the duration of the course.
The only exception is the PgCert in Occupational Health & Safety Management where learners don't need to be in work.
When you get in touch, we'll ask you about your previous qualifications and experience and let you know if you can use this as credit towards your degree so you can complete it quicker.
We may ask you to attend an informal interview, which can be done in person, by phone or online.
Courses start in January or September.
You should email us at least 4 weeks before your start date, with details of  the course you're interested in and your previous qualifications and experience, so we can advise you on your next steps.
Once you've contacted us, and confirmed your course choices, you need to:
If you're using previous experience as credit towards your degree, we'll need you to submit a Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) portfolio at least 10 weeks before the start of the course.
This documents all your experiences in work that could count towards credits, and can take up to 6 months to create.
We recommend you speak to us to get more details on how to create this portfolio.
If you're using previous qualifications as credit towards your degree, we recommend you contact us and discuss this before you enrol.
You can upload your qualifications as you complete your online application, and we'll assess them to confirm whether credits can be allocated to you.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/professional-and-flexible-learning/work-based-degrees:
Ready to shape the future of work and learning?
The Institute for Professional and Flexible Learning is your gateway to agile, career-focused education that meets the needs of today’s dynamic economy.
Working at the heart of the University and in partnership with industry, we co-create innovative pathways, from Degree Apprenticeships, distance learning postgraduate and undergraduate courses, to modular short courses that support upskilling, reskilling, and lifelong learning.
In a world where skills needs are constantly evolving, we connect employers, educators, and learners to design flexible, high-impact programmes that respond to real challenges.
Whether you're advancing your career, nurturing talent, or helping to close critical skills gaps, the journey starts here.
Find more information on degree apprenticeships and the courses we offer.
Degree apprenticeships
Find more information for employers on the courses we offer and opportunities available.
For employers
Find more information on courses we offer whilst learning at work.
Professional and flexible learning

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/business/train-your-workforce/bespoke-training-for-organisations:
Develop the skills of your employees and take your business to the next level.
We can develop custom-made solutions for your business and employees, working with you to design programmes around the needs of your organisation.
Keep abreast of emerging techniques and innovation
Tailor courses to suit your organisation and employee needs
Gain accreditation in your area of interest or industry
We can also accredit your in-house courses towards a formal academic award.
Contact us to discuss your requirements and find out how we can help you.
The University went beyond the task outlined in our training needs analysis.
They proved excellent at getting to know our methods of operation and understanding the needs of our business.
Learning and Development Manager, Skandia UK Ltd
Apprenticeships are a way for your organisation to attract talented employees and develop your existing workforce.
The CPD team
+44 (0)23 9284 6190
ccpd@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/short-courses-and-cpd/dental-academy:
Browse our dentistry short courses and book your place
Browse our short courses and continuing professional development (CPD) courses in all aspects of dentistry – from programmes focused on dental photography and radiography, to tooth whitening and impression taking courses.
You can find more information and documents related to dentistry in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight on the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Local Dental Council (LDC) website .
These Dental Academy short courses are available – and we have many other courses that might interest you too.
If you'd like to attend a course that is not currently running, you can contact us by email on cpd.dentalacademy@port.ac.uk or by phoning +44 (0 ) 23 9284 5252 .
Start date: To be arranged, contact us for details
On this Local Dental Anaesthesia Short Course, you'll learn how to safely deliver local anaesthetic to patients in a dental setting.
This course will contribute to registration as a Dental Hygienist in the UK.
View Programme
This short course has ended.
You can explore our other dentistry short courses or return to this page later to see if there are any new dates available.
This two day course in fluoride varnish application provides qualified, registered dental nurses with an educational experience in knowledge, critical understanding, intellectual skills and practical skills.
The Dental Academy is a short walk from Portsmouth and Southsea train station and a Park and Ride bus stop.
See our terms and conditions
Dental Academy CPD Team
+44 (0)23 9284 5252
cpd.dentalacademy@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/short-courses-and-cpd/criminal-justice-short-courses:
Explore our criminal justice courses and book a place now
We offer outstanding short courses in many aspects of criminal justice – from programmes focused on working with victims of crime or missing persons, to those on intellectual property crime and illicit trade.
Browse our short courses in the list below and make a booking today.
Doctors and police officers are required to work together to respond to the unexpected death of a child.
This short course tackles evidence from Serious Case Reviews which indicates that a lack of understanding of respective agency roles can cause a breakdown in trust and communication, and lead to increased anxiety.
Find out more.
On this online short course, you'll gain an insight into the difficulties and challenges faced by victims of crime, whether they choose to report it or not.
On this Missing Persons: Global Perspectives short course, you'll consider the needs and challenges faced by people who go missing, and their relatives.
On this course, which is unavailable anywhere else, you'll gain a practical and academic understanding of intellectual property (IP) crime and illicit trade.
Find out more .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/short-courses-and-cpd/sport-and-exercise-science-short-courses:
Browse our sport and exercise science short courses and book your place
We're not currently running any short courses or continuing professional development (CPD) programmes in sport and exercise science, but we'll be adding more soon.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/collaborate/schools-and-colleges/training-and-cpd:
Explore HE updates with free teacher training and CPD
As teachers and advisers, we recognise the key role you play in supporting students with their future options.
Our CPD for careers advisers and teachers is for you to stay updated with the latest changes in higher education, so you can continue giving your students expert, up-to-date advice.
Access this across the year with our CPD hub and webinars – it's all free, and can be shared with your colleagues.
Or join us at our annual HE Advisers' Conference .
Whether you’re a new or an experienced adviser, we'll help you refresh your knowledge, improve your skills and reflect on best practice to meet those all important Gatsby Benchmarks.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/short-courses-and-cpd/moving-into-senior-leadership-in-education-creating-a-motivational-workforce:
Effective leadership in education means knowing how best to engage and motivate your team.
If you're looking to develop your skills in management and motivation for a new or prospective senior leadership position in a school, college or university, this short course is for you.
You'll spend two days exploring what goes into creating a motivated workforce as a senior leader in an educational setting, from the theoretical constructs to developing your own motivational techniques.
You'll also focus on other key areas of your senior role, including educational leadership and management, organisation, HR and policy.
You'll be taught by educational specialists from our Centre for Continuing Professional Development, who bring experience as teachers and managers, as well as published works relating to standards and quality.
After the course, you'll have the tools to lead with enthusiasm, positivity and confidence, ready to empower your team to achieve your institution's organisational aims and objectives.
The Centre offers specialist subject and English language study for those interested in career development opportunities in the UK.
On this short course, you'll:
An honours degree, or equivalent, in a relevant subject or a master's degree in an appropriate subject.
Exceptionally, equivalent professional experience and/or qualifications will be considered.
Applicants must be recently (circa 3 years) promoted to a leadership or senior management position in an education institution.
To apply for this course, please contact us or fill in the form below.
Want a rewarding career shaping how children and young people learn and develop?
Choose one of our childhood, youth studies and education courses.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-hons-global-communication-and-media-dual-degree:
3.5 years full-time with a year abroad starting September 2025
P900
112-120 points from 3 A levels or equivalent
Showing content for section Overview
Set yourself up for a career as a global media professional capable of navigating this challenging yet exciting environment with the Global Communication and Media dual degree.
You'll study in Portsmouth and spend a year at Edith Cowan University in Perth, Western Australia, graduating with two degrees; one from each institution.
Entertainment and information media influence almost every aspect of our lives, while the rise of global communication technologies has transformed how we consume, create, and share media across social, cultural, geographic, political, and economic divides.
This course explores all these areas, offering you a wide range of choices to shape the direction of your learning.
Top 30
for student satisfaction
(Times Higher Education, 2024)
This course is a dual degree (also known as a double degree).
When you complete the course successfully, you'll have 2 degrees – one from the University of Portsmouth and one from Edith Cowan University.
Dual degrees allow you to achieve 2 degrees in 3.5 or 4 years rather than 6 years.
You'll benefit from a global education experience and the high-calibre teaching expertise, latest research and modern facilities at two universities.
You'll also develop a more comprehensive knowledge of communication and media than on a single degree and gain an understanding of different cultures, which will help you work more effectively with people from different backgrounds.
All of this will help you stand out in a competitive job market after you graduate.
You'll be based in Portsmouth in years one and two, and for six months or a year at the end of the course.
You'll spend year three in Perth, Western Australia at Edith Cowan University .
You'll get support with travel arrangements, visas, finding accommodation and accessing loans and other funding that can help pay for your study and living costs when you're in Australia.
Edith Cowan University is one of the top 100 young universities in the world one of the top 100 universities in the Asia-Pacific regions (Times Higher Education 2019 and 2020).
The Good Universities Guide 2021 gives the University 5 out of 5 stars for its learner resources, student support, teaching quality and overall experience.
Like Portsmouth, Perth offers a mix of city and outdoor living.
It's a great base for exploring Western Australia and beyond.
This course is available through Clearing.
To work out your UCAS points, use our UCAS Calculator to work out how many UCAS points you have.
Even if you don't receive the grades you need, we recommend still calling us on 023 9284 8090 as we still may be able to consider you for a course
You may need to have studied specific subjects or GCSEs - see full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept.
See alternative English language qualifications
In addition to meeting the course entry requirements and having an interest in the subject area, we're looking for the following skills and abilities:
We'll support you in developing these qualities further on the course.
Whatever your work, you can borrow computers and professional-standard film, photography, lighting, and performance equipment from our loan stores in the Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries.
Broadcast and film in crystal clarity with our range of industry-level Sony, JVC and Canon cameras.
It's predicted the world’s entertainment and media sector revenue will grow to be worth more than $2.6 trillion by 2025 (PWC, 2021).
This should create a significant demand for media and communications graduates.
When you complete this course, you'll have the knowledge and professional skills that will set you up for a career in media and communications in the UK and beyond, in public or private organisations or as a freelancer.
You could also use the communication, team working and research skills you develop in other sectors.
Areas you could work in include:
You could also go on to postgraduate study , for example, by studying an MA or MRES.
Previous Portsmouth graduates have gone onto work for organisations such as:
Get experience while you study, with support to find part-time jobs, volunteering opportunities, and work experience.
Towards the end of your degree and for up to five years after graduation, you’ll receive one-to-one support from our Graduate Recruitment Consultancy to help you find your perfect role.
Each module on this course is worth 15, 20 or 40 credits.
You need to study modules worth 120 credits in years 1, 2 and 3, and study modules worth 60 credits in year 4 (6 months).
In Years 1, 2 and 4 , you'll be studying at the University of Portsmouth (UoP).
In Year 3 , you'll be studying at Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Perth, Australia.
You'll study at the University of Portsmouth in Year 1.
Understanding your own skills, interests and motivations, you'll explore your future career decisions.
Insights from academics and professionals will inform your knowledge of required skills and qualities in creative tech.
And you'll critically assess technological, ethical and commercial challenges and opportunities in contemporary film and TV.
Examine concepts such as transnationalism, globalisation and resistance in meida.
You'll discuss the changes of national identity and national media industries throughout the 20th and 21st centuries with a focus on key social, political and cultural events.
You'll explore influential schools of thought for understanding mass media, from the past to the present.
Learn how to analyse media texts and understand our media-filled world through case studies and exercises.
Guided by experienced lecturers, you’ll sharpen your critical thinking, research, and independent enquiry skills.
By the end, you'll have the essential knowledge and tools to start your journey as a media scholar, ready to explore deeper questions.
Let this module set your curiosity ablaze as you explore the power and possibilities of media.
You’ll look into big topics, from regulation to digital disruption, and think critically about journalism.
Analysing the relationships between journalists, audiences, and power, you’ll appreciate influences on reporting.
Gain the essential background to thrive as a journalist with this module, which covers ethics, laws, theories, and practical skills.
By getting into current issues and discussions, you’ll be ready to make work that really matters and keeps the public informed.
You’ll look at reporting limits and defenses in different sectors, gaining an understanding of how to ethically report while considering the public interest.
Study important legal decisions and self-regulation in the media to learn how to give advice on the best conduct in complex legal scenarios.
This course will equip you with the knowledge you need to navigate your professional life in an ever-evolving industry.
You’ll improve your ability to spot news and write creatively by working on assignments with real deadlines.
Discover how to uncover engaging stories, find the best angles, and make facts interesting with your writing.
Master methods for creating attention-grabbing headlines and catchy social media posts.
In our simulated newsroom, you'll learn to discover stories and adapt your reports for different audiences and markets.
Understand the legal and ethical rules that journalists follow.
Put together a strong portfolio of your published work, showing off all your reporting skills.
By the end of this module, you’ll have the expertise and professional work to succeed as a journalist today.
Let your dedication to truth guide you as you uncover and share the stories that count.
In year 2 you'll study at the University of Portsmouth.
You’ll write sharp reviews and features, and make editorial decisions for different audiences across various media.
By looking at writing styles and revenue metrics, you’ll learn how to create content that really connects with people.
You’ll also explore research methods, helping you to put together a persuasive media research proposal.
This experience will boost your creativity and analytical skills.
By the end, you’ll be ready for jobs where you can use storytelling to unlock new opportunities.
Learn about the influence of TV, movies, ads, online platforms, and newspapers in the US, Canada, and Ireland.
Understand how these outlets build a sense of who we are.
You’ll develop key research skills to delve into the media’s cultural role.
You’ll get to watch films, listen to lectures, and work on a detailed project.
This will help you learn ways to study identity, assess media in context, and create your own studies on how national stories affect our identity.
This module will equip you with the ability to critically evaluate the media’s role in forming national identity and give you the tools to conduct your own research into this complex process.
You’ll learn how to analyse data and create stories while making editorial decisions that adhere to legal and ethical standards.
By using both social media and traditional news sources, you’ll find compelling stories even when you’re working under tight deadlines.
This experience will improve your professional conduct and versatility in various investigative areas.
You’ll be well-prepared for journalism roles that demand resourcefulness and integrity.
You'll be taken through the steps that are followed by the TV industry to transform an idea into a finished 'taster tape', which is a short sample of a TV show idea.
Working in a team, you'll create high-quality content, which will improve your research and storytelling abilities.
You'll also attend workshops and lectures conducted by professionals who work in the media.
Here, you'll learn how to generate ideas, select the right people to appear on screen, and get TV executives interested in your show.
By analyzing actual TV shows, you'll gain insight into what makes good factual media.
You'll also use your technical skills to create your own film, showcasing your editorial talent.
This module is an excellent opportunity to enter the exciting field of creating TV programs based on real-life events and stories.
In this module, you’ll study how film has evolved and look at today’s challenges.
These will help you think about creativity from a justice-focused perspective.
This broad approach will give you a clearer view of the ethical guidelines that professionals follow in different fields.
With greater critical understanding and ethical duties, you’ll be equipped to make wise career choices, leading with empathy.
You'll learn about the creation and production of films for the global market by developing scripts and pitching ideas.
Additionally, you'll also gain a business perspective by understanding scheduling, budgeting, and funding.
During the module, you'll discover the various roles on set to understand the production process better.
Furthermore, you'll learn about safety procedures and paperwork to ensure that best practices are followed.
This module is a comprehensive guide, covering both the creative and business sides of the international film industry.
You will get the opportunity to study classic and modern stories from different genres, including crime and flash fiction, which will help you learn about literary styles.
Moreover, you will practice writing for different age groups, such as adults, young adults, and children, and adapt your writing style accordingly.
Throughout the module, you will turn your ideas into complete stories and develop a portfolio of your work.
You will also get the chance to improve your creative process through discussions and self-assessment.
In addition, you will experience the publishing world by pitching a story to a magazine.
By the end of the module, you will have discovered your unique storytelling voice and created captivating short fiction.
You’ll learn to shoot and edit stories ready for mobile platforms, enhancing your ability to work in the field.
Reflecting on content creation aligned to platform strengths, you’ll be able to use data-led strategies to better engage with audiences.
You’ll finish this module with the essential skills you need to succeed in contemporary journalism.
You’ll look at the history, roles, and ethics of PR, and see how it differs from marketing and journalism.
Through workshops and practical tasks, you'll gain real-world experience creating press releases, campaigns, and promotional materials for actual clients.
Whether working alone or in groups, you’ll develop valuable skills in talking to people, managing projects, and making different media content.
This module will give you all the tools you need to succeed in the busy world of PR.
You will have access to advanced cameras and editing software to create your own projects, collaborate with your peers and review each other's work.
Furthermore, you will learn about industry safety procedures, the relationship between ideas and techniques, and explore your creativity by participating in this filmmaking experience.
This module provides an opportunity to put media theory into practice as you develop and shoot your own narrative project.
You will learn how to manage your time effectively, progress from concept to final edit, and analyse your creative decisions and cinematic storytelling.
This experience is invaluable for anyone looking to plan and produce a film from start to finish.
You’ll choose learning tasks that add up to 60 hours, like internships, volunteering, research, or remote study that match your career plans.
Workshops will help you make meaningful goals and think about what you’ve accomplished.
Through this, you’ll grow the knowledge, skills, and qualities you need to thrive in the workplace.
By looking at your growth through active participation and reading, you’ll become a perceptive, eager job-seeker who stands out.
In this module you'll explore both historical and contemporary examples, analysing the various techniques used to control information.
Through diverse case studies, you will observe how propaganda reinforces ideology and capitalism across different forms of media.
By developing your analytical skills, you will gain a better understanding of propaganda's social impact and its relation to power.
This module provides valuable insight into the role played by propaganda in mass-mediated culture and offers tools to question its influence.
You’ll explore emerging technologies to understand how the internet, social media, and ambient media shape—and are shaped by—human behaviour.
Consider expert opinions to spark discussions about online communities and the idea of an ‘information society.’ We’ll show you how to find trustworthy sources online, helping you delve into the participation culture across platforms.
By making your own digital content, you’ll learn about the impact of what people create and share in our always-connected world.
Crucially, by taking part, you’ll improve your ability to use different media platforms and develop your creativity, preparing you for jobs in today’s digital-first workplace.
You’ll trace the development of film, TV, and digital media, grasping historical impacts and the concept of spectatorship.
Look into expert analyses to explore how interactive technologies shape audiences and people.
You’ll contextually analyse screen entertainment as an industry, considering economic factors and passive vs active engagement.
Through a mix of practical and theoretical work, your projects will showcase your in-depth understanding of the subject.
You’ll also evaluate online materials to support your findings.
By the end, you’ll have a well-rounded understanding of screen culture.
You can use this to pursue many careers, from media programming to content creation.
Analysing diverse screen languages and conventions, you'll enhance your creativity, and comparing story structures and narrative needs of global production will broaden your perspective.
You'll learn to understand target audiences and emerging platforms, to prepare you for working a the global marketplace.
With script drafting and redrafting practice, you'll gain industry-applicable writing talents.
Through acclaimed script analysis, you'll appreciate what makes great screenwriting.
You’ll study evolving reporting methods and audience interactions and suggest strategies suitable for new digital trends.
By looking at research on online communities, public discussion, and how people consume news on the internet, you’ll assess what these shifts mean for professional journalism—a field increasingly shaped by openness and audience involvement.
You will learn how to source stories and write to industry standards for print, digital and broadcast in a newsroom setting.
Throughout the module, you will become familiar with the culture and issues of your chosen field, and will produce interviews, reviews, and features to strict deadlines.
You will also build a portfolio, grow your contacts, and pitch your work to real outlets.
This specialist experience will be invaluable to your future career prospects, and will give you a competitive edge in the industry.
As a team, you will embark on a journey of entrepreneurship, starting with ideation and ending with the launch of your product or service.
You will analyse complex factors influencing a successful launch, conduct thorough research to assess feasibility and gain valuable insights into marketing, manufacturing, and sales strategies.
Working together on pitch presentations, you will discover your strengths as an entrepreneur or team member.
This module provides transferable skills essential to thrive in creative industries, whether you plan to launch your own company or seek employment with top organisations.
You will develop the mindset and abilities to spot opportunities and act on them, which will benefit your career.
You’ll look at how some media stories use more than one platform, like books, films, games, and more.
Discover how transmedia has changed over time and how to make your own stories more immersive and interactive.
You’ll work with others to create and present your own transmedia project.
This module will help you become a skilled transmedia storyteller, ready for the industry.
You’ll also improve your teamwork and research skills by collaborating with others.
Most of all, your creativity will bloom as you immerse yourself in the future of interactive storytelling.
Analyse the artistic, political, and economic aspects of films in postcolonialism and global cinema.
Critically examine different themes and the methods filmmakers use.
Understanding the evolution of film production, you’ll learn about the impact of technology on movies both locally and internationally.
By looking at how films are distributed and marketed, you’ll learn about the impact of global politics on how films are received.
You’ll come to understand international films deeply, developing cultural knowledge.
This understanding will enhance your analytical abilities, which are useful for jobs in film programming, curating, and reviewing.
You'll complete your third year at Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Perth, Australia.
You'll study the same core modules in year 3 on both pathways.
You'll complete your fourth year (6 months) at the University of Portsmouth.
Research from diverse lenses to build a questioning, reflective grasp of celebrity's principles and boundaries.
Hone skills in independent thought, analysis, and articulation of ideas.
Use presentations to illustrate arguments around the societal role of fame.
In this module, you’ll survey different media—from TV to print—and break down how they portray lifestyle, identity, and consumer habits.
Studying these will help you understand the cultural importance of trends in shopping, home decor, and body image.
Examine concepts like taste, social class, status, and alienation tied to consumerism, and link them to present-day problems.
Choose examples to study in-depth, uncovering the messages behind consumer habits on your own.
By the end of the module, you will have a solid understanding of the complexities of consumer culture and stronger analytical skills.
This understanding will deepen your insights into media, marketing, and human behaviour, preparing you for careers in fields like advertising and journalism.
You’ll look at how new technologies are changing political communication and giving more people a voice.
Discuss the good and bad points: is social media bringing people together or dividing them?
Look into social movements and how people are using the internet to push for change.
Study real-life examples of how political parties and leaders use (or don’t use) online tools.
Get a solid understanding to judge what people say about the digital era.
Learn to use critical theories to figure out technology’s role in running a country.
Improve your ability to explain what digital media means for democracy to many people.
By the end of this module, you’ll be ready to join in on the conversation about how the internet is changing democracy.
You’ll ask sharp questions and look for answers, combining your analytical skills with a strong sense of ethics.
By referring to expert sources, you’ll deepen your understanding of a specific topic and improve your academic writing.
With careful project management, you’ll dive deep and turn your initial idea into a meaningful final study.
Immerse yourself in in-depth research of a real person from the past, then weave fact with fiction as you plot their untold tales.
Or reinvent fictional narratives from books, TV and film by becoming an imaginative fan fiction author.
Share your original re-tellings at our lively Character Conference.
By the end, you'll have produced compelling stories in historical and fan fiction genres, and developed key skills in experimenting with language, structure and canon.
You’ll consider how the news presents important events such as wars, disasters, and emergencies, and reflect on the impact of reporting.
Dig into how news is made and think deeply about the forces that shape reporting on human rights.
By studying real examples and doing your own research, you’ll learn to apply complex ideas to your analyses.
You’ll come to see the important role journalism has in society and learn how to cover world issues responsibly.
Be a part of important talks on how the media deals with human rights — discussions that could lead to real change.
You'll initiate, manage and deliver your own production, aligning it to your programme's creative focus.
Showcasing your technical and creative prowess, you'll skilfully utilise media tools to realise your vision.
Supported by research, you'll make savvy choices, elevating impact.
Mindful of ethics, you'll produce responsibly whilst modelling professional practice.
Through sharp communication, coordination and time management, you'll cap off your degree by successfully completing a production that excites.
And evaluating your production and creative growth against industry benchmarks, you’ll gain invaluable insight for future undertakings.
You'll explore the promotional tactics behind Hollywood blockbusters, foreign cinema and indie releases.
Learning about distribution deals and licensing, you'll see how posters, trailers and social media hook viewers.
Analysing box office data, you'll understand movie programming and performance, and with research skills, you'll evaluate real marketing campaigns.
This module reveals the commercial power of the movie industry.
You’ll create a unique magazine for a specific niche and study the media environment.
This will help you gain a competitive edge in everything—from branding to circulation.
Working as part of an editorial team, you’ll take on real industry roles, crafting engaging issues that perfectly blend concept, content, and visual excellence.
This practical experience is a solid base for coming up with ideas and producing magazines that truly stand out in the market.
Explore popular texts that have sparked dedicated fan bases.
You’ll learn theories to grasp why audiences get so engaged.
Study the roots of subcultures united by favourite movies, TV shows, and merchandise.
Look at research on how fans interact, create communities, and set themselves apart.
You’ll also get hands-on experience by joining fan groups online to study and support ideas about our strong connections with media.
With a mix of critical analysis, real-world examples, and practical research, you’ll uncover the social dynamics of fandom.
This module will deepen your understanding of why people become fans and how these communities operate, enriching your knowledge through both study and direct experience.
You’ll explore global finance and grasp how it sways political decisions through a virtual portfolio exercise.
By studying the establishment, you’ll uncover where the power truly lies, from global factors to the media.
You’ll critically assess if the media challenges those in power or simply echoes their views.
The module combines theory and real-world examples to explain the connections between money, government, and the media.
With this knowledge, you'll enhance your critical thinking skills, ideal for careers in journalism, public relations, or policymaking.
Above all, you’ll take part in discussions on current events as an informed and ethically aware person.
Use theory and history to see how literature, film, TV, new media, and journalism present technology, scientists, and science’s place in our world.
You’ll learn to tell real science from fiction by evaluating their cultural settings.
This will help you see how media shapes our understanding of science.
By looking at many examples and carefully thinking about them, you’ll discover how important it is to communicate science creatively.
You'll create professional materials like a CV, cover letters, and online portfolio to showcase your skills to employers.
With 40 hours of work in the film and TV industry, you’ll get important experience and meet people who can help you in your career.
This module is a great chance to create your own personal brand.
You’ll analyse what film studios and production companies are looking for, so you can customise your skills and stand out from the crowd.
By the end, you’ll have a collection of work and materials that fit your goals in the film and screen world.
Use your creativity to take control of where your career is headed.
You'll examine how comedy interacts with culture, society and industry, comparing scholarly perspectives and blending primary and secondary research, to articulate your ideas in writing.
Preparing you to apply insights to your own work, this module offers invaluable tools to think deeply about the art of comedy.
We use the best and most current research and professional practice alongside feedback from our students to make sure course content is relevant to your future career or further studies.
Therefore, course content is revised and regularly reviewed.
This may result in changes being made in order to reflect developments in research, learning from practice and changes in policy at both national and local levels.
Teaching methods on this course include:
You'll also experience "flipped learning".
This is where you're introduced to the learning material before the teaching session and then deepen your understanding through discussion with peers and problem-solving activities, facilitated by lecturers.
Many of the teaching staff are from relevant journalism, media and film industry backgrounds and have worked as journalists, news producers, researchers, film directors, film editors, factual and documentary filmmakers, multimedia specialists cinematographers and other relevant roles.
You can access all teaching resources on Moodle, our virtual learning environment, from anywhere with a Web connection.
You'll be able to test your skills and knowledge informally before you do assessments that count towards your final mark.
You can get feedback on all practice and formal assessments so you can improve in the future.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your dual degree.
In your first year, you'll be in timetabled teaching activities, such as lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical classes and workshops for about 18 hours a week.
The rest of the time you’ll do independent study such as research, reading, coursework and project work, alone or in a group with others from your course.
You'll probably do more independent study and have less scheduled teaching in years 2, 3 and 4 but this depends which modules you choose.
The academic year at University of Portsmouth runs from September to early June with breaks at Christmas and Easter.
It's divided into 2 teaching blocks and 2 assessment periods:
The academic year at Edith Cowan University runs from February to November with breaks at Easter and in June.
It's divided into 2 semesters and 2 exam periods:
You'll start year 3 at ECU in semester 2 in July, finishing in semester 1 in May.
You'll have a personal tutor from the University of Portsmouth and a country link tutor from Edith Cowan University when you're studying in Perth in year 3.
Your personal tutors help you make the transition to independent study and give you academic and personal support throughout your time at university.
You'll have regular contact with them in learning activities or scheduled meetings.
You can also make an appointment with them if you need extra support.
They'll be available virtually in year 3 when you're in Australia.
You'll have help from a team of faculty academic skills tutors.
All fees may be subject to annual increase.
Fees include EU Scholarship .
Please note, we'll confirm 2026 course fees soon
Tuition fees terms and conditions
Applying from outside the UK?
Find out about funding options for international students .
These course-related costs aren’t included in the tuition fees.
So you’ll need to budget for them when you plan your spending.
Our accommodation section shows your accommodation options and highlights how much it costs to live in Portsmouth.
You’ll study up to 6 modules a year.
You may have to read several recommended books or textbooks for each module.
You can borrow most of these from the Library.
If you buy these, they may cost up to £60 each.
We recommend that you budget £75 a year for photocopying, memory sticks, DVDs and CDs, printing charges, binding and specialist printing.
If your final year includes a major project, there could be cost for transport or accommodation related to your research activities.
The amount will depend on the project you choose.
You'll need to cover your living costs and pay additional costs of £3,000–£4,000 to cover travel to and from Australia in year 3.
You can cover these costs using a UK Government student loan.
We can advise you on travel arrangements, finding accommodation and accessing a student loan that can help pay for your study and living costs when you're in Australia.
You'll be in charge of handling these tasks and keeping track of them, but we’ll be here to support you throughout the process.
Information about your study abroad year
To study in Australia on your study abroad year, you'll need the correct visa.
You'll need to make sure you satisfy the Australian Government Immigration requirements when you apply - which is typically in the 2nd year of your course.
Requirements can vary from year to year, so it's important to check your eligibility in advance to prepare for your visa application.
If you're unsure or have questions, get in touch .
If you've already completed part of this course with us or another university and would like to apply for the second or third year with us in September 2025, use our online application form .
Apply directly as an international student (including EU) for September 2025 entry.
Or call our International Admissions team with any queries: +44 (0)23 9284 5113
International apply now
September 2026 start
To start this course in 2026, apply through UCAS.
If you'd prefer to apply directly, use our online application form .
It's easy to transfer to a similar course once you're at Portsmouth or study this course as a single degree if you decide not to attend Edith Cowan University in Year 3.
You can also sign up to an Open Day to:
If you're new to the application process, read our guide on applying for an undergraduate course .
As an international student you'll apply using the same process as UK students, but you’ll need to consider a few extra things.
You can get an agent to help with your application.
Check your country page for details of agents in your region.
Find out what additional information you need in our international students section .
If you don't meet the English language requirements for this course yet, you can achieve the level you need by successfully completing a pre-sessional English programme before you start your course.
When you accept an offer to study at the University of Portsmouth, you also agree to abide by our Student Contract (which includes the University's relevant policies, rules and regulations).
You should read and consider these before you apply.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-hons-counter-terrorism-intelligence-cybercrime-dual-degree:
3.5 years full-time with a year abroad starting September 2026
L312
120-136 UCAS points from 3 A levels or equivalent
Explore the human side of cybercrime, to help stop criminals exploiting the internet.
Study with international experts and gain real experience for in-demand careers.
Study criminology to explore why people commit crimes and how we should respond.
Discover what criminology is all about and prepare for a career in the police, probation or prison services.
Terrorists and cybercriminals are a growing and constant menace to world security.
Learn how to fight this threat on the international stage as you study in the UK and Australia on this Counter Terrorism, Intelligence and Cybercrime dual degree.
You'll develop the skills, knowledge and tech know-how to help protect communities, businesses and government organisations from terrorism and cybersecurity threats.
In year three, you'll experience how Australian authorities deal with these threats when you spend a year studying at Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Perth, Australia.
Meet your Course Leader, Dr Leah Fox, as she explains what you'll study on this Counter Terrorism, Intelligence and Cybercrime dual degree.
Dr Leah Fox: This course is bachelor of honours in Counter Terrorism, Intelligence and Cybercrime, and it's a dual award degree course, and in this case, students will be able to graduate with two degrees.
Within the three and a half years, the first two years will be spent in the University of Portsmouth following that, students will study their third year in Edith Cowan University in Perth, Australia, and then they'll come back to complete their studies.
It's a multidisciplinary course that will allow students to gain a good, in-depth knowledge in three specific subject areas: counter terrorism, intelligence and cybercrime.
They'll be covering cybercrime related subject areas or topics whilst they're studying in Portsmouth.
The counter terrorism and intelligence aspects of the course will be covered whilst they're studying in Australia.
Some of their modules that look into physical security, intelligence analysis, some of the applications of the intelligence techniques in relation to counter terrorism operations.
We're looking for an applicant who wants to make a change, who is open minded and prepared to be confronted with a number of challenges.
Studying in Australia brings a number of benefits.
In addition to getting a more comprehensive and enhanced knowledge, students also will be able to get to network with other individuals from different countries.
They will enhance their overall experience.
They'll be exposed to different cultures and it will help them tremendously in their future career prospects.
They'll have access to an intelligence analysis in cyber security.
They'll be able to become analysts, or they'll be able to pursue their career in policing.
This will create an immense benefit in terms of their employment opportunities.
Even though they're geographically away, they'll still be able to get access to that same level of support as they were getting in the University of Portsmouth, so they'll have access to wellbeing, they'll have access to financial services, they'll have access to personal tutoring.
In addition to that, students are able to still gain access to student loans in order to get support with travelling and accommodation.
When the students come back from any study abroad, they are transformed.
They're immensely competent.
They are able to bring in their knowledge and share it with other students here locally.
They're confident and immensely proud for students and and to be able to see that achievement is fantastic.
All shortlisted applicants will be invited to attend an interview in support of their application.
Equipped with everything you need to secure and analyse digital evidence, without leaving any trace of your analysis.
Discover the laboratory
Get training in monitoring, detecting and responding to cyber security incidents in ECU’s security operations centre.
Terrorism and cybercrime are among the biggest threats to international security.
In the 18 years from 2000 to 2018, it's estimated that terrorism has cost the world economy more than $800 billion and resulted in thousands of deaths.
The economic cost of cybercrime is even higher, estimated at $1 trillion a year in 2020.
Graduates with the skills, knowledge and experience to identify and manage the cybersecurity threats posed by terrorists and cybercriminals are in high demand, in the UK and abroad.
When you complete this course, you'll be prepared for a career in specialised cybercrime, cybersecurity and counter terrorism units in police, government agencies and private organisations.
The international perspective and additional knowledge you gain at an overseas university should give you a distinct advantage when progressing your career after the course.
You could work in areas such as:
You could also work in the prison system or further your studies at postgraduate level.
Put what you learn into practice and enhance your CV by providing advice to individuals, community groups, schools, colleges and businesses in our Cybercrime Awareness Clinic.
Find out more about the Clinic
In years 1, 2 and 3 you need to study modules worth a total of 120 credits.
For example, 4 modules worth 20 credits and 1 module worth 40 credits.
In your final year (6 months), you'll complete your dissertation worth 40 credits, plus a module worth 20 credits.
In Years 1, 2 and 4 , you'll be studying at the University of Portsmouth.
In Year 3 , you'll be studying at Edith Cowan University in Perth, Australia.
Note these modules are based on courses starting in September 2025.
We'll confirm September 2026 modules here closer to the time
You'll look at the historical development of criminal justice, as well as the duties of the criminal justice agencies that exist today, and how they work together.
You'll also explore the ideas behind the different types of punishment used within the criminal justice system.
You'll analyse the big ideas and theories around cybercrime, using the latest digital technology.
You'll also explore responses to and ways to prevent cybercrime, and consider the related social justice issues.
You'll get familiar with social science research concepts, and build your academic reading, writing, presenting, reflecting and critical thinking skills.
You’ll learn how to differentiate quality sources, understand research elements, reflect on your development needs, and recognise and explain the relationships between subjects.
You'll practice capturing and analysing digital evidence and get to grips with how this evidence fits into a criminal investigation.
You'll explore crime scene management, forensic laws that apply to digital evidence and you’ll even learn how to present your findings in court.
By observing digital forensic techniques and reflecting on processes and challenges, you'll gain skills in this growing area of criminology.
You'll examine the origins of criminology, considering the rise of the scientific study of crime and criminality.
You'll also think about the social, cultural, political and economic factors that led to the development of the study of criminology that we know today.
You'll also take a look at some of the major organisations battling cybercrime, and think about these cases in terms of human rights debates on privacy, expression and information in cyberspace.
By engaging with these perspectives while analysing developments in cybercrime, you'll get a deeper understanding of the criminal and social justice matters at play.
You'll look at the groups that engage in these practices, and their impacts on cybercrime theory.
You’ll analyse cyber-threats to organisations and states, gaining understanding of related contemporary challenges.
By the end of the module, you’ll have an understanding of the cyberwarfare, cyberespionage and cyberterrorism issues that states and corporations face.
You'll explore radicalisation, and sociological and psychological theories of individual and social motivation, and consider the role of gender identity and women within terrorist groups.
Critically evaluate various types of terrorist groups, including religious terrorism, far-right terrorism, far-left terrorism, ethno-nationalist/separatist terrorism, and single-issue terrorism.
You'll also learn about the strategies employed by states to combat terrorism and evaluate their effectiveness.
You’ll work independently and in groups with your classmates on research projects, identifying and responding to inherent ethical issues involved in your projects and considering their societal impact.
Finally, you'll develop and produce the results of your research projects in a variety of forms.
You'll explore the topic of illicit substances and their legal categories, while thinking about the historical and contemporary developments of the illegal drug trade and its impact on communities within a global context.
You'll consider drug use within prisons, festivals and within the LGBTQ+ community, analysing and debating prohibition, activism and harm reduction within a criminological context.
Combining law, language analysis and psychology, you’ll look at the different tools and methods used for analysing texts.
You’ll investigate grammar, orthography, metaphor, punctuation, capitalisation, layout and text management, salutations, spelling and distinctive markers, style of printing, and the use of upper-case letters.
You’ll also explore the different methods used for detecting lies and deception, and apply forensic linguistics tools in written and verbal case reports.
In this module, you'll dive deep into real cases of environmental injustice and inequality across the globe, looking at the nature, scale and range of environmental crimes and harms.
Through interactive lessons, you'll debate thorny issues like: Who should be held accountable for climate change impacts?
How can we balance economic growth with sustainability?
Is environmental activism ever justified in breaking the law?
You'll ask and investigate what hate crime is, how much of it there is, who is involved and affected, where, when and why it is occurring, and what can be done about it.
You’ll be encouraged to develop your own independent, analytical and creative thinking as you explore this important subject.
The learning objectives of this module are to be confirmed.
You'll the theories that underpin organised crime and gang culture, and then the origin, structure and operations of various international organised crime groups.
You will then assess how governments have sought to combat the organised crime phenomena and the global challenges in doing so.
You'll look at the psychological factors behind the measures that the police, the government and security personnel take in ensuring public security.
You’ll also explore a security issue in-depth through an essay and devise a research project proposal aimed at creatively addressing a real-world security problem, alongside defending ethical positions.
You'll examine the criticisms and challenges of criminology as a social science, thinking about the part it plays in creating social order.
You'll also explore theories of social control and cultural resistance through debate and published ideas on the subject, which will help you develop an understanding of justice and dissent.
You'll examine this hidden part of the internet from the perspectives of criminology, law, culture, computer science and economics.
You'll learn about the technology required to access it, the online communities that use the dark web, the ways the authorities monitor it, and even how its portrayed in the media.
You’ll evaluate sources such as legal records, cheap print, newspapers and novels, to discover what was considered a crime during this period and explore changing approaches towards ‘deviant’ behaviour.
You’ll see how behaviours we now consider private were publicly policed, and how this involved religion and the community.
You’ll analyse changes from corporal punishment and torture towards modern ideas of policing.
You’ll also consider debates about the impact of urbanisation on patterns of crime, and the use of criminal prosecution as a means of social control, for example in relation to enforcing gender roles and controlling the poor.
You'll examine reforms, rights and roles of victims, and think critically about how effective existing professional practices are.
You'll look at published literature and debate with your classmates to develop your intellectual curiosity and knowledge of social justice when it comes to the experiences of victims of crime.
You'll think critically about youth justice systems, victims' experiences, and different approaches to rehabilitation, hearing from expert guest speakers who will provide real-world insights.
By evaluating new research and debates, you'll learn key skills in ways to support young people and strengthen their communities.
You'll learn about crimes against humanity (such as war crimes and genocide), state crimes against democracy, state-corporate crime, contemporary slavery and human trafficking - shining a light on oppression and injustice.
By examining the responses to these crimes, you'll think about the ways international judicial, state and inter-governmental, and global civil society actors tackle state crime.
You'll develop your ability to think critically about complex global issues, taking many different perspectives into account.
Working alongside the clinic team, you'll learn how the clinic works while assisting in research and working with clinic clients.
You'll use what you’ve learned so far on your degree to help develop clinic materials, conduct community research or participate in awareness projects, building your understanding of real clinic processes.
As you're guided through how different forensic techniques are used in our crime scene simulations, you'll weigh up the value of physical evidence found at crime scenes and learn how to communicate your investigative findings.
You'll also consider how forensic science fits into criminal investigations and the wider criminal justice system.
By the end of the module, you'll know which scene processing methods to use in which cases, as well as how to compare analysis techniques and evaluate evidence.
You’ll analyse the essence of security, exploring how security needs are addressed around the world and on a national level, down to a community and even an individual basis.
You’ll explore different forms of societal risk and insecurity, and approaches to dealing with security threats, taking into account the nature and impact of economic and political developments.
You'll explore the complex relationships between ethics, laws and imprisonment policies.
Alongside your classmates, you'll focus on pressing issues like mental health, violence and gender while arguing for a more humane, effective prison system.
You'll examine the history, role and organisational structures of the police in the UK, including the wider policing `family' and agencies that are involved in governance and oversight of the police.
You’ll tackle the changing nature of crime and the associated challenges for the police, alongside associated governance, trust and legitimacy issues.
You'll analyse major cases of economic crime and weigh up their wider societal implications.
You'll also learn how to recognise disciplinary perspectives, become familiar with the key investigating organisations, identify investigative techniques, and gather and analyse real case information.
With a minimum 80-hour commitment, you’ll apply what you’ve learned so far on your degree to real-world professional settings within our community of local businesses, social enterprises, and third-sector organisations.
You’ll have support from interactive workshops, tutorials, and guest speaker events, encouraging you to set achievable professional goals and evolve your professional identity.
Through interactive lectures with academics, speakers and professionals, you'll discuss, debate and complete practical exercises exploring wildlife crime alongside your classmates.
You'll spend time examining wildlife crimes and the factors behind them, as well as environmental justice and sustainability.
There are no optional modules in this year.
You’ll explore different system elements and threats, applying security models to real cases and analysing threat scale and nature.
You'll spend time understanding theoretical principles and practices, and evaluate security solutions to cybersecurity threats from a socio-technical view.
It's up to you what your dissertation or project is about – this will be your chance to showcase your passion for criminology and associated disciplines by choosing a subject area or topic that most interests you.
You'll draw on everything you’ve learned so far to investigate, analyse, craft and refine your dissertation or project, using existing texts, sources and artefacts to support your arguments and give them context.
You'll have the support of a dedicated dissertation tutor to guide you throughout this module.
Teaching staff at Portsmouth and Edith Cowan University in Perth are from relevant law enforcement and security backgrounds.
Teaching staff at both universities are also engaged in research.
This means you learn about the latest theories and concepts, which is especially important in the fields of counter terrorism, cybersecurity and cybercrime where new technologies and types of crime are constantly emerging.
This is a unique opportunity to develop an international perspective of counter terrorism, intelligence and cybercrime in a global environment.
Studying in a new country enables countless opportunities to experience new cultures and values, develop interpersonal skills and build connections.
Dr Leah Fox, Course Leader
You’ll be able to test your skills and knowledge informally before you do assessments that count towards your final mark.
In your first year, you'll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical classes and workshops for about 7–9 hours a week.
You'll study at Edith Cowan University's Joondalup Campus during your third year and student accommodation is available on the Mount Lawley Campus.
Both campuses offer a library, computer labs, cafes, bars, a fitness centre, student support and counselling services.
The amount of timetabled teaching you'll get on your degree might be less than what you're used to at school or college, but you'll also get face-to-face, video and phone support from teaching and support staff when you need it.
These include the following people and services:
You’ll have regular contact with them in learning activities or scheduled meetings.
You'll have help from a team of faculty learning development tutors.
It's easy to transfer to a similar course once you're at Portsmouth or study this course as a single degree if you decide not to attend Edith Cowan University in year 3.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-hons-environmental-science-and-management-dual-degree:
F910
This course is Accredited
112-120 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent, with 40 UCAS points from a specific Science subject
Environmental issues – such as habitat loss, water pollution and climate change – pose a serious threat to the long-term existence of life on Earth.
If you want to help lead the charge against climate change, learn a skill set that's in demand globally, and secure a rewarding career, this BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Management dual degree is the perfect next step.
You'll study in Portsmouth and spend a year at Edith Cowan University in Perth, Western Australia, getting a global perspective in how the environment is changing and the steps we need to take to reverse this change.
This course is accredited by the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES).
Earth systems and environmental sciences at the University of Portsmouth is ranked 4th of all post-1992 universities for research quality (Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021)
Read more about our amazing earth systems and environmental sciences research
You may need to have studied specific subjects or GCSEs - see full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept .
Discover more about the planet's physical structures and scientific processes, such as glaciers and coastal flooding, using drone data, aerial and satellite remote sensing and geographic information systems.
Investigate the geological and planetary processes that influence environment change and natural resource formation in this lab, using our industry standard spectrometers and laser ablation system.
Use the equipment in this lab to identify and analyse chemicals and biochemicals in surface water, groundwater and soil, so you can develop strategies to minimise and remove their harmful environmental effects.
Trace Earth and environmental processes in this lab, using techniques including palynology processing – the study of strewn particles – for acid dissolutions of rock matrices, sample sieving and heavy liquid separation.
Gain expertise in high-magnification imaging and analysis of the chemical and physical structure of natural and manufactured materials.
The necessity of tackling environmental problems, and the importance of sustainability, are gradually being recognised by governments.
This means that employment opportunities in the area of environmental science are on the rise – by 91% in the UK alone .
The global nature of the climate crisis we face means that international experience on a professional and cultural level is also sought after by employers in this sector.
The experience you get on field trips abroad, and during your year at Edith Cowan University in Australia, will be invaluable to your employment prospects.
By completing modules on topics such as energy resources, environmental impact and assessment, pollution, and aboriginal perspectives on the environment, you'll get a detailed global overview of the problems facing our environment, and the means to start solving them.
When you graduate you'll have a suite of environmental science skills, and a wealth of practical experience in applying them, making you an ideal candidate for many roles in the environmental sector.
Your experience of international study and other cultures will make you a particularly attractive employment prospect.
Completing this degree is also the ideal next step to further, postgraduate study.
You could further refine your expertise in more specific, connected fields, for example, by doing an Environmental Geology and Land Contamination MSc or a research degree in Earth and Environmental Sciences .
When you graduate, you could work in areas such as:
Roles you could take on include:
In your final year (6 months), you'll complete your dissertation worth 40 credits.
All modules in this year are core.
You’ll think about Earth science in terms of a global, integrated, system.
You’ll become familiar with basic physics, chemistry, and mathematics and IT skills, including a basic introduction to programming, data analysis and visualisation.
You'll learn how to formulate ecological questions then how to gather and analyse data to answer those questions.
This module integrates theoretical knowledge with a field course giving the opportunity to experience the practical aspects of this topic, and direct experience with some of the concepts covered in the lectures.
The environmental impacts and consequences of human actions upon key ecological processes will be discussed throughout the module.
Due to their primary role in ecosystem function, plants are a particular focus.
You’ll cover the basic concepts of systems analysis as applied to physical environmental systems, including concepts of equilibrium, thresholds and change.
You’ll examine physical systems on a global scale, exploring the key components that drive environmental systems and natural hazards and how they are inter-related.
You’ll then look at physical systems on a smaller scale to learn about the operation of physical environmental systems at the scale of human intervention.
Through case studies, in-depth lectures and workshops, you’ll think about the nature and extent of human impact on the environment, and learn about the complexities of managing environmental, population and resource change at local and global levels.
Why do continents drift?
What forces build majestic mountain ranges?
Explore these questions and more on this module.
You’ll explore theories on the origin of the Solar System and the Earth while looking into the origin and nature of the Earth's atmosphere, oceans, and their circulation systems.
Learn to describe methods of measuring geological tim and investigate the main processes that characterise the major periods of the Earth's history.
You’ll get to grips with the basic building blocks of the Earth's crust and get an introduction to the rocks and minerals that make up common igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
You’ll also learn how to read and interpret geological maps, and discover the techniques used for observation and recording geological data.
You’ll examine the physical and chemical processes that control the distribution and composition of seawater, as well as marine-life habitats, populations, and interactions among organisms and their surrounding environment.
You’ll bring all of this together to produce a review on a particular oceanographic topic.
You’ll learn about the chemical principles behind the Earth's biogeochemical cycles, atmosphere, water resources and soils.
Discover monitoring techniques and the analysis of the natural environment.
Through group activities and hands-on-practical work, you’ll gain an understanding of varying methods used in analytical environmental chemistry.
You'll be introduced to and engage in a number of quantitative data collection exercises.
This will help develop your ability to work in a team and to collect, collate and record environmental data.
It will also introduce the potential career pathways for Environmental Scientists and provide you with the skills required to apply for jobs.
You'll plan the experimental approach for a scientific investigation, including ethics and risk assessment.
Demonstrate proficiency in research skills, analyse and interpret scientific data, and demonstrate comprehension in molecular biology methods.
You'll undertake a minimum of 80 hours of placement work, voluntary work or relevant professional experience.
You'll develop your work experience and enhance your CV ready for either a year-long placement or to apply for jobs.
You'll gain organisation and communication skills, and experience relevant to your future career as you critically reflect on your learning experience and engagement with the Careers and Employability Service and the science Faculty Placements Office.
Your engagement will also be further overseen by your tutor and module coordinator.
You'll also have access to supporting workshops that are supplemented by work based learning hours.
Your 80 hours of work experience should take place between between the June period at the end of level 4 and before the end of the first teaching block at level 5, enabling you to complete assessments.
You'll also need to secure relevant employment, volunteering or placement opportunity by the start of teaching block 1 during your second year.
You’ll explore the fundamental principles of low carbon energy - nuclear, solar, wind and hydro power.
You’ll also think about the health effects of environmental radiation, and the fundamental principles of heat transfer and household energy saving technologies.
You’ll learn about the discipline of environmental change and palaeoecology, focusing on practical techniques used in the study of the Earth's environment at a variety of temporal and spatial scales.
You’ll also gain skills in a range of palaeoclimate and palaeoenvironmental reconstruction techniques, including sediment coring, microfossil analysis and geochronology.
You’ll learn core theory underpinning GIS and RS, before applying the theory through the use of industry standard software.
You’ll explore the capture, interpretation and analysis of geographical and environmental data from a variety of sources to explore 'real world' problems and challenges.
You’ll explore the physical and chemical properties of water – aquifers, groundwater recharge, storage, and interactions with surface hydrology.
You’ll look at the transport of water and contaminants through the groundwater system.
You’ll cover concepts of fluid mechanics and Darcy’s law to help you understand flow through porous media.
You’ll also cover applications of hydrogeology in engineering and environmental management.
You’ll get familiar with the big issues and contemporary debates in education studies as well as the role and expectations of a teacher.
You’ll develops fundamental knowledge and skills that teachers require, as well as your capability to structure and critique a lesson plan.
You’ll do a combined RYA Powerboat Level 2 course and complete an RYA Marine Radio Short Range Course through an RYA accredited provider.
Among other skills, you’ll become familiar with common nautical terminology, and safely launch and recover a boat from a trailer and safely handle a powerboat in the right conditions, being aware of own limitations and those of the craft.
You’ll get an introduction to fluvial geomorphology and a foundation in the discipline for developing a career in the environmental management sector.
You’ll examine fluvial forms and processes, including flow dynamics and the mechanics of sediment erosion, transport and deposition.
Take part in lab classes to demonstrate fundamental processes of open channel flow and sediment transport in alluvial rivers.
You’ll also complete a project to show what you’ve learned about river channel processes in the context of an environmental management issue.
You’ll build your skills gained from your basic diving qualification, you'll learn the theory and practice of working diving and appreciate the issues faced during underwater scientific operations.
Through classroom based workshops, you'll demonstrate understanding of HSE legislation, risk assessment, project reports and the conduct of a diving project, within relevant Approved Codes of Practice.
You’ll then apply your knowledge by planning a dive and undertaking practical diving in the field.
The following modules are taught at the partner institution Edith Cowan University.
On this module you'll:
You’ll learn essential data analysis skills you’ll need for your future career, including how to produce a carbon audit to current Defra standards and how to present data to a range of stakeholders.
You’ll also produce a consultancy-style report evaluating environmental impacts and potential savings, and explore the role of environmental impact assessment in the planning system.
You’ll become familiar with the main environmental pollutants, how they’re transferred within and between various media and how they interact with biota to create an environmental risk.
You’ll explore the waste management hierarchy and the scientific and technical processes involved with waste management operations.
You’ll consider these hazards from a number of angles, including how these are expressed upon landscapes, the nature of natural hazards through a range of spatial and temporal scales, and the effect these have on past and present human populations and civilisations.
You’ll look at geophysical hazards like earthquakes, biological hazards such as pandemics, hydrological hazards like droughts, climatological hazards such as wildfires, and anthropological hazards like nuclear war.
You'll be assessed through:
These are some of the expert staff who’ll teach you on this degree course.
Professor of Environmental Aquatic Chemistry
Gary.Fones@port.ac.uk
School of the Environment and Life Sciences
Faculty of Science and Health
PhD Supervisor
Head of School
Michelle.Hale@port.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Mohammad.Hoque@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Environmental Science and Management degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as tutorials, lectures, practical classes and workshops and external visits for about 12-15 hours a week.
You'll probably do more lab and fieldwork in years 2 and 3, but this depends on which modules you choose.
You'll finish your final year in December.
You'll also have full access to all of these Portsmouth University support services while you're in Australia.
Includes EU Scholarship .
Please note, we'll confirm 2026 course fees soon.
You'll need to pay for meals and other living costs in the range of £50–£200 while completing compulsory fieldwork, depending on location and duration.
Travel and accommodation costs for compulsory fieldwork are covered by your course fee.
You'll need to contribute towards the cost of optional fieldwork programmes, which usually cost £50–£2,000.
During your placement year or study abroad year, you’ll be eligible for a discounted rate on your tuition fees.
Currently, tuition fees for that year are:
The costs associated with your specific destination will be discussed during your second year, as well as possible sources of additional funding.
To start this course in September 2026, apply through UCAS, you'll need:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-global-sport-management-dual-degree:
4 years full-time with a year abroad starting September 2025
N880
120-128 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent
Turn your passion for sport into a career in sport management.
Access fantastic facilities and learn from academics with industry experience.
Included in the top 10 for Tourism, Transport, Travel and Heritage Studies in the Complete University Guide League Tables 2022.
Top up your Level 5 qualification to a full BSc (Hons) Sport Management & learn how to apply business knowledge to the world of sport as a sports manager.
Do you want to increase participation in sport and physical activity?
Are you interested in helping communities come together through sport, or a new generation of elite athletes achieve their goals at global events such as the Olympics?
This BSc (Hons) Global Sport Management Dual Degree course covers all the key aspects of sport management such as events and operations management, sports law, marketing, and entrepreneurship – you'll also get the chance to spend a year studying abroad, in Australia.
Sport related research at the University of Portsmouth is ranked 3rd of all post-1992 universities for research quality
Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021
Read more about our amazing sports research
Sport Management is the examination of the global sports industry that unites commercial, public and third sector stakeholders.
Studying this degree will equip you with the knowledge and skills required to successfully embark on a career in a wide range of roles and functions.
The BSc (Hons) Global Sport Management specifically provides a unique opportunity to combine academic theory, a practical working environment and opportunity to engage within professional industry networks across the globe.
To give you the best chance of securing the ideal job when you graduate, our Careers and Employability Service can help you find relevant work experience during your course.
We'll work with you to identify placements, internships, voluntary roles and freelancing opportunities that will complement your studies and allow you to use the skills you've learnt.
We'll also be available to help, advise and support you for up to 5 years as you advance in your career.
In each year, you need to study modules worth a total of 120 credits.
In your final year, you'll complete your dissertation worth 40 credits, alongside taught modules worth 80 credits.
Through exploration of major events and contemporary issues in sport, you'll gain an understanding of how social, political, and economic factors impact the evolving sports landscape.
You'll also be guided to analyse complex issues, and develop the skills to critically evaluate and discuss arguments and counterarguments in sport management.
You'll investigate the development and impact of community-based sports initiatives, examining their objectives within local and national contexts.
Through the lens of social theory, you'll explore sport as a social construct, engaging with classical and postmodern theories to analyse its historical evolution, societal role, and its appeal.
Core themes include the codification of sport, its influence on gender and identity, and the rise of 'new sports.' By combining sociological perspectives with real-world case studies, you'll gain a comprehensive understanding of how sport functions on both societal (macro) and individual (micro) levels.
You'll explore a three-sector model (public, non-profit, and professional sports) to understand the diverse management environments within sports organisations, covering key functions like operations, marketing, finance, human resources, and strategic management.
Core topics include the economic and social factors shaping sports, as well as the essential management skills required across sectors.
The module encourages intellectual curiosity and ethical awareness, focusing on social justice issues like equality, respect, and sustainability in sports contexts.
Through a series of practical assessment activities, students will gain hands-on experience in creating and implementing digital marketing strategies tailored to engage audiences online and using various social media platforms.
This module offers a strong practical orientation and enables students to develop essential digital marketing skills while building a portfolio of evidence that showcases their ability to thrive in the workplace.
This module will provide knowledge of human resources and prepare students for their future employment by applying theoretical concepts to solve problems within a sport organisation.
Through lectures, seminars, workshops, and tutorials, students will develop their knowledge on key areas of human resources and be presented with problems that happen within work organisations.
For their assessment, they will be required to work within a group to develop and propose a plan to rectify an issue, with a short time frame.
This will replicate situations that arise in the workforce and require a quick solution to support the business and the people working within the organisation.
Formative assessment will prepare them for the summative assessment through creating a proposal and presenting it to their peers and providing feedback.
You'll assess, evaluate and plan for changing needs and demands within sports and leisure activities.
Build your skills in strategic planning, programming, recruitment, retention, management of operations, finance and information, and marketing.
With global case analyses, you'll explore theory and reflect on engagement in research activity, highlighting areas of strength and weakness within global operational and facility management.
You'll understand the strategies and practices involved in selling sports-related products and services, as well as securing and managing sponsorship agreements.
Explore the dynamics of sales techniques, relationship management, negotiation skills, and the creation of compelling value propositions tailored to potential sponsors.
The module also addresses the analysis of sponsorship opportunities, activation strategies, and the measurement of sponsorship effectiveness.
Through industry relevant assessments and case study examples, learners will gain hands-on experience in crafting and executing sales pitches and sponsorship proposals.
This module prepares students for careers in sports sales and sponsorship by providing them with the essential knowledge and skills to drive financial growth and build strong, mutually beneficial partnerships within the sports sector.
You'll gain an understanding of the different processes related to sport event management in the 21st including the key points of considerations in planning and delivering events.
You'll demonstrate an understanding of the process of designing and developing an event, including the key considerations of infrastructure, event purpose, the core people needed to planning and deliver the event, along with event structure, health and safety considerations and requirements, and the target audience/client base for the event.
Students will study a wide range of legal sources including elements of criminal and civil law, together with institutional frameworks and dispute resolution systems.
Students will learn actively using contemporary and relevant historic sports law issues over a wide range of sporting disciplines.
The following modules are taught at the partner institution Edith Cowan University.
Core modules in this year include:
Optional modules in this year include:
In this module students will complete a strategic planning exercise in the field of sport management, under supervision from a subject expert and a mentor within industry.
This will be a summation not just of this module but also of the prior studies that students have completed up to this point.
Students will be supported with lectures and workshops and tutorial sessions in order to explore theoretical concepts and academic scholarship.
Theory will also be grounded in real-life experience of collaborative team building, leadership in order to achieve strategic goals.
Formative assessment sessions will occur regularly within the module curriculum and will be directly linked to the summative assessments.
This module allows students to develop a critical and reflective knowledge and understanding of their subject, think independently, analytically and creatively, and engage imaginatively with new areas of investigation within and across discipline boundaries within Sports Management.
Furthermore, through investigating the strategic management in sport students are able to synthesise new and existing knowledge, be intellectually curious, embrace challenges and seize opportunities for development to generate ideas and develop creative solutions of benefit to the economy and society.
In order to achieve this student will be able to locate, access and critically engage with information, using current and emerging digital technologies and communicate clearly and effectively, in a range of forms and to different audiences.
The module takes an applied approach, focussing on contemporary issues within the sports industry through the lens of economics, finance and governance.
Topics covered include: Competitive balance in sporting contests, demand for live events, cross subsidisation between leagues, match outcome forecasting, financial sustainability, return on investment, streams of income, corruption, and governance.
You'll examine psychological theories and research across a broad range of topics that are of importance in modern occupational settings, from how to select the best people for a job and what makes a good leader to how to improve employee wellbeing and reduce stress at work.
You'll gain an insight into the advantages and disadvantages of different workplace practices, and the steps that can be taken by occupational psychologists to enhance the culture and effectiveness of organisations.
Assess entrepreneurial opportunities and develop a business model as part of a venture creation project, working as part of a team.
Produce creative solutions that benefit the economy and society as you reflect on your personal entrepreneurial skills and emerging identity, considering entrepreneurship as a career option.
As a growing sector of the global economy the sports industry presents businesses, governments, national governing bodies and not for profit organisations with significant opportunities.
However, in unlocking the potential of sport, professionals working within the industry have to be able to demonstrate strategic vision and leadership coupled with the ability to work innovatively with others as part of a team in order to solve issues and be reactive to an evolving market.
You'll also have an opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of their personal and professional characteristics and how they can work with others to develop strong working relationships and successful teams to address strategic issues.
Building on your studies and previous employability work, you'll hone your employability skills, prepare to enter professional employment and apply for professional roles.
You’ll revise your career action plan and identify the key outcomes and goals for your desired career.
Through a series of tutorials and action learning sets, you'll engage in self-directed career enhancing activities, develop organisational and communication skills, gain relevant experience towards your future career and develop an awareness of industry based professional practice.
You'll critically reflect on progress through professional development models, advancing your employability.
As part of this module, you'll take part in peer support exercises, strengthening your ability to apply course knowledge and apply theory to professional practice.
The course also uses a range of blended and flipped learning techniques throughout information technology infrastructure at both the University of Portsmouth and Edith Cowan University.
Teaching staff at Portsmouth and ECU have a range of academic and professional experience which brings added value to the course.
Examples of professional memberships include:
This means you'll learn about the latest theories and concepts from academics at the forefront of sports and exercise science research and innovation.
Laura.Grubb@port.ac.uk
Helen.Symons@port.ac.uk
School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences
Media ready expert
Lecturer
Sarthak.Mondal@port.ac.uk
The amount of timetabled teaching you'll get on your degree might be less than what you're used to at school or college, but you'll also get face-to-face support from teaching and support staff when you need it.
These include the following people and services.
(Includes EU Scholarship )
To start this course in September 2025 - please contact us .
To start BSc (Hons) Global Sport Management (Dual Degree) in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-hons-sport-health-and-exercise-sciences-dual-degree:
N881
120-128 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent, with 32 UCAS points from a Science specific subject
Learn scientific principles that help athletes perform at their best and discover the role physical activity can play in improving people's health.
Begin your career path to becoming a Chartered Sport and Exercise Psychologist on this degree, accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS).
If you see yourself turning your passion for sport and exercise into an exciting global career, this BSc (Hons) Sport, Health, and Exercise Sciences dual degree course is for you.
Based in Portsmouth and Perth, Western Australia, you'll explore areas such as sports psychology, biomechanics and exercise physiology, and develop skills to help everyone – from elite athletes looking to set new records to those who play sports for fun – get the most out of exercise.
You'll experience another culture, get access to further expertise and high-tech equipment, and gain an international perspective that will help set you apart when you embark on your career.
Be able to get specialist qualifications that match your career aspirations in areas such as first aid, coaching and gym instruction
Put what you learn into practice using links to local sports and healthcare providers
Learn from expert staff who are actively engaged in research projects that inform the future of sport and exercise science
This course is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES), the professional body for sport and exercise sciences in the UK.
You can read about the benefits of choosing a CASES-endorsed degree course on the CASES website .
Watch this video to meet Senior Lecturer, Heather Massey and discover the benefits of a dual degree as you take a look at some of the modern equipment and facilities you'll use on this Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences course.
[Heather Massey; Senior Lecturer in Sport, Health and Exercise Science (Dual Award)
The dual award course for Sports, Health and Exercise science is a four year degree, which involves three years at the University of Portsmouth and a year working in Perth in Australia at Edith Cowan University.
There's lots of reasons why people might want to come and study this dual award course at the University of Portsmouth.
We have a great facility here at Portsmouth for studying Sports and Exercise Science such as the Extreme Environments Laboratory.
But we also have the opportunity for you to study in Australia for that third year of your degree.
They'll learn a lot about some of the rehabilitation science, improve their knowledge within sport and exercise science as well.
But more than that, they're also going to gain the opportunity of learning in a different environment from different tutors and the facilities that they have at Edith Cowan are absolutely first class.
So it's an amazing opportunity to learn both from experts in their field, but also learn about how different people in a different culture operate.
This dual degree is accredited by BASES the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences, and it allows students then to go into a range of different professional roles that might be related to sport, both at elite level and also grassroots, into education so sports teaching.
Or, science teaching and then possibly into the healthcare sector, either physiotherapy, physical therapy and leading to further degrees in medical science or medicine as well.
I really, really enjoy this course.
I think the whole idea of being able to learn both from tutors in the UK and also tutors in Australia and combine that knowledge is an absolutely fantastic opportunity for our graduates and all students.
[University of Portsmouth]
You may need to have studied specific subjects or GCSEs – see full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept .
Use equipment including force plates, pressure plates and our electromyography system to explore the impact of exercise on the body in this lab, from the limits of human endurance to the effects of chronic health conditions.
A flexible work space featuring a Polhemus motion tracking system for tracking athletes' movement in 3D and a DEXA scanner for measuring body fat.
See how altitude and humidity affect people's comfort, performance and survival.
Features an immersion pool and swimming flume, which acts like a treadmill for swimmers.
Sport, health and exercise science focuses on the scientific principles behind exercise performance.
It combines physiology, psychology, biomechanics and nutrition management skills to examine the relationship between exercise and the human body, revolutionising the way sportspeople train and condition themselves.
A report by The Physiological Society found that over the course of their careers, sport and exercise science graduates earn on average £667,000 more than their non-graduate peers.
What's more, the experience you gain during your year at Edith Cowan University in Australia will be invaluable to your employment prospects.
As part of this thriving industry, you'll have the skills to develop and rehabilitate athletes of all ages, or take a non-scientific career route such as teaching, sports journalism, sports marketing or advertising.
You could also study sport, health and exercise science further at postgraduate level, such as with our Applied Sport and Exercise Performance MSc .
This course includes a work-based learning core module.
You'll complete 20 hours of work experience across a range of industry sectors related to sport, health and exercise science, with direct mentorship from academic members of staff.
You'll get to see a range of career journey presentations from alumni and subject experts and we'll use these links to encourage work based activities across the sectors of sport, health and exercise science.
Through lectures, practical sessions and seminars, you'll develop the practical, team and leadership skills needed to collect biomechanical data in different environments.
You'll apply biomechanical knowledge and principles to a variety of sporting situations and use current technologies to understand sporting technique, enhancing your knowledge of human performance.
You'll learn to manage information, interpret your findings and become an effective communicator in presenting biomechanical insights.
Through lectures, practical sessions and workshops, you'll apply sport and exercise physiology knowledge and principles to a variety of sporting situations.
You'll use appropriate physiological techniques to collect and analyse data, learn to manage information and become an effective communicator in presenting sport and exercise physiology insights.
Through lectures, practical sessions and workshops, you'll develop skills in data collection, analysis, team work and leadership, and learn to integrate data with theory and practical knowledge.
You'll discover how to effectively communicate findings to a variety of audiences and describe your knowledge of core areas in sport and exercise psychology.
You'll explore how psychological theories explain sport and exercise behaviour and performance, and describe information from a variety of sources, including qualitative and quantitative research.
Examine how responses differ between exercise modes and how psychological factors can limit exercise performance.
Discover the different methods behind exercise data collection, handling, processing and interpretation.
You'll compare biomechanical data from current technologies in either a performance or sports injury context, showcasing your understanding of biomechanical data collection and processing methodologies.
As you communicate your ideas in biomechanical analyses to a scientific audience, you'll demonstrate intellectual curiosity of biomechanical principles and apply them to examples in sport and exercise.
Evaluate the factors that impact sport performance, athlete mental health and the psychology of physical activity – considering the role exercise can play in the treatment of mental health conditions.
You'll learn to present references as per scientific conventions, critique literature and communicate your knowledge effectively through written work.
When you finish, you'll be intellectually curious of key and emerging issues in the psychology of sport and exercise.
Analyse your current skills and areas of development as you prepare to progress to your final year.
Develop your organisation and communication skills, gain relevant experience towards your future career and reflect on your learning experience as you engage with the Careers and Employability Service.
You'll identify the skills, characteristics and areas of knowledge needed for graduate positions in sports, health and exercise sciences and construct a career development plan that suits your specific professional needs.
You’ll interpret physiological data to explain exercise’s impact on cardiovascular, metabolic, pulmonary and musculoskeletal health from childhood to older age.
You’ll apply this knowledge first-hand, learning to communicate and present scientific knowledge effectively.
Gain perspective on how inactivity in earlier years threatens health later in life and equip yourself with valuable practical experience in the assessment of physical activity and health.
Determine how different modes of exercise, environmental conditions and stressors can affect physiological responses.
Through laboratory practicals you'll develop skills in collection, analysis and the interpretation of physiological data within sporting or occupational contexts.
From hydration to macro and micronutrients, you'll gain an understanding of different health, fitness and sport requirements.
By applying different methods, you'll learn to assess nutrition, body composition and health-related fitness, and deepen your knowledge of relationships between nutrition, health, fitness and sports performance.
This module will explore the operational process involved within performance analysis and how these can influence practice through evaluating contemporary theory and research about how humans learn motor skills, including perceptual and cognitive processes.
Students will develop the practical skills involved in the collection and analysis of data within sports including videography, coding and calculation of key performance indicators.
The primary goal of a strength and conditioning coach is to enhance athletic performance by developing an athlete's speed, strength, and power, with specifics varying based on the athlete and performance context.
This goal is achieved through evidence-based training programs tailored to both teams and individual athletes, often in close collaboration with coaches and physiotherapists.
Strength and conditioning also involves coaching proper movement mechanics, supervising and motivating athletes during exercise, and assessing athletes' physical attributes through screening.
The following modules are taught at the partner institution Edith Cowan University.
You'll learn to work both independently, and as part of a team, whilst you evaluate literature on a particular topic to form a research question and method.
Through taught sessions you'll develop your knowledge on data analysis procedures.
You'll explore how to evaluate your findings and produce well-argued and evidence-based conclusions in an academic manner.
By applying appropriate scientific techniques you'll discover how to implement your research plan and evaluate it's effectiveness.
You'll develop your ability to effectively communicate your research process and findings through an individual written report and confidently present your project through a poster presentation, demonstrating your ability to respond to marker questions.
Engage with empirical evidence and literature to understand the strengths and limitations of research.
Test ergogenic aids by analysing and interpreting physiological data in practical learning and critically assess evidence supporting ergogenic aids to develop balanced conclusions.
Apply your existing knowledge of human responses to strength and conditioning training to plan and deliver effective coaching sessions, considering the requirements for long-term periodised training programmes.
Evaluate emerging themes in literature and how they can be practically applied to the delivery of effective programmes and sessions whilst describing the key concepts that underpin strength and conditioning.
Develop skills to work in various settings, reacting positively to new situations through awareness, flexibility, and adaptability.
Become an evidence-based exercise expert translating data from research studies into practitioner-friendly information.
Evaluate key issues in the development of test procedures and protocols for physiological assessment and interpret athlete assessment data, using this to provide evidence-based training guidelines.
As part of this module, you'll learn to bridge the gap between research and athletes.
By translating theory and research in the domain of skill acquisition into practice, students will explore how these key skills can be developed.
Specifically, the module will focus on working with elite populations and have a core emphasis on critical analysis of current research perspectives with a view to using knowledge to inform skill acquisition interventions.
Content will be focussed on the development of new and novel training practices that are grounded in theory and research perspectives.
You'll learn to interpret key principles and how to conduct assessments with athletes, teams and coaches.
By collecting qualitative data, you'll understand important ethical and methodological aspects, as well as social and developmental issues relevant to sport and exercise psychology practitioners.
Using information from a variety of sources, you'll produce evidence-based recommendations that enhance client performance and shows your analytical ability.
Select advanced biomechanical analysis techniques and apply them to complex sporting and clinical scenarios, using this to answer relevant research questions.
As part of this module, you'll choose a project area and analyse data in collaborative teams, present your project protocol, and submit an individual conference paper at the end.
Using appropriate language and terminology, you'll develop professional fluency conveying complex biomechanical principles.
Assess methods that enable people to work and perform in extreme environments.
Develop assessment competence by producing a podcast presentation on aspects of physiology in extreme environments and a portfolio detailing a practical laboratory session.
Learn to communicate with different audiences, sharing your insights on the impact of extreme environments on human physiology.
By the end, you'll be able to confidentally discuss human physiology and pathophysiology in extreme environments.
Develop practical capabilities in physical and exercise rehabilitation, applying a multidisciplinary approach to this complex discipline.
Through connected teaching and assessment, you'll appreciate the complexity of exercise-based rehab, the professions involved and potential opportunities for future research and practice.
You'll evaluate evidence to ethically prescribe exercise for people living with chronic or complex health conditions.
By the end, you'll have the skills to contribute to multidisciplinary teams advancing this area of health and performance.
You'll explore the unique health and performance considerations of females, focusing on the differences between men and women, as well as individual variations among women.
You'll examine the impact of the gender gap in scientific research and give special attention to female-specific issues such as breast health, injury risk, and nutritional needs.
This module will focus on the factors that may have an enhancing or compromising effect on typical youth development with with a view to using evidence to inform national and organisational-level policy.
Discover applications of motor learning and development research frameworks to inform interventions with youth age groups.
Content will be focussed on the development of new and novel training practices that are grounded in contemporary theory and research perspectives.
Additionally, this module will cover the requirements for conducting psychological research in an ethical and safe manner.
To start BSc (Hons) Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences (Dual Degree) in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-biomedical-science-with-human-biosciences-dual-degree:
Learn how we can use the biology of disease to fight it on this BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Human Biosciences dual degree course.
B930
120-128 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent, with 80 points in specific subjects
Learn to play a vital role in helping people live longer, healthier lives on this BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Human Biosciences dual degree course.
You'll discover how to investigate the biology of disease to fight its effects on individuals, families and communities.
You'll learn how to use research to ask and answer key questions about human diseases , and how to identify and monitor diseases in the lab using leading diagnostic techniques.
When you graduate, you'll be ready to pursue a career in hospital-based biomedical science (after further work-based training), or to take on another related career path, such as biomedical research or contributing to clinical trials to find new medical treatments.
Study in Portsmouth and spend a year studying overseas at Edith Cowan University (ECU) in Perth, Australia, gaining two degrees - BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Human Biosciences and Bachelor of Biomedical Science (Bioscience).
Your global outlook will help you make an impact in the world of biomedical science, disease awareness, detection and prevention.
This programme has been accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), following an independent and rigorous assessment.
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge and key skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of employers.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from accredited programmes meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject knowledge, technical ability and transferable skills.
Practise the skills needed to diagnose and help people manage diseases, including collaborative microscopy - examining 3D microscopic images on a big screen with academics and other students.
Use professional-standard equipment to explore how the structures and functions of molecules change under different conditions.
Learn practical healthcare skills and apply your anatomical and physiological knowledge in a safe, contextual space using current clinical equipment.
Biomedical science is crucial to public health the world over - it's how most patients' conditions are identified and how we can keep improving the effectiveness of the treatments that fight them.
Here in the UK, over 70% of NHS diagnoses are based on lab findings by biomedical scientists .
With the two degrees and international scientific study experience you'll earn on this BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Human Biosciences dual degree, you'll complete the course as a globally-competitive graduate ready to contribute to this vital field.
Once you graduate, you'll be able to take further training to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and work as a Biomedical Scientist in the NHS, or in private or international settings.
You could also apply for work or postgraduate study in Australia using your links at Edith Cowan University.
Possible postgraduate study options include a Master's in Medical Biotechnology or Biomedical Engineering .
You could also choose to become a researcher, or work in clinical trials, medical sales or biotechnology.
During your second year at Portsmouth, you'll have the chance to attend our Biomedical Science and Pharmacology Careers Conference, where you can hear directly from Biomedical Science graduates about their career pathways and what their roles involve.
At previous conferences, graduate careers represented include biomedical science, clinical trials, medical sales, biomedical research, teaching, Physician Associates and medicine.
As a student on this course, you'll be eligible to apply for membership of the following societies:
To give you the best chance of securing the ideal job when you graduate, our Careers and Employability Service can help you find relevant short-term work experience during your course.
You'll take part in introductory sessions and take on a collaborative approach to learning.
You'll undertake formative assessments and peer reviews throughout the module to continually monitor your understanding of the subject and engage in team work.
You'll promote successful collaboration within your groups by administering your own interventions to encourage individual and team development.
You'll explore the structures and functions of biologically important molecules, metabolic biochemistry, basic microbiology, molecular biology, genetics and inheritance.
You'll also learn an outline of the basic anatomy and physiology of major body systems (excluding the central nervous system, peripheral nervous system and sympathetic nervous system).
In this wide-ranging module, you'll critique science reporting in the news, develop mathematical and statistical skills for analysis of data, and undertake a lab proficiency skills assessment.
You'll develop a scientiific portfolio, and reflect on your personal development needs in supportive tutorials.
It provides an overview and important grounding in the pathological disciplines and 'sets the scene' for Pathological Sciences 2 and Pathological Sciences 3 modules.
An important part of this module will involve becoming aware and confident using terminology associated with each discipline and recognition of the fundamental principles in each of the studied areas.
You will learn how to represent the role in healthcare of studied pathological disciplines creatively, about career progression routes and the importance of the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) for the course accreditation and Biomedical Scientist registration.
In addition, it provides a grounding in enzymes and enzyme kinetics, together with drug-receptor interactions, how the body handles drugs, and the processes surrounding drug discovery, clinical trials and medicines regulation.
In this module, you'll examine the wonders of the human body's physiological mechanisms and their related disorders.
Through formal and practical learning, including simulations, you'll discuss the causes, symptoms and diagnoses of a range of conditions.
Study how different immune system components work cooperatively to eliminate infections and analyse immunodeficiencies, hypersensitivities and inflammations through clinical scenarios.
You'll explore acute and chronic wound healing processes and and learn the uses of correct clinical tests to support diagnosis.
You'll gain solid understanding of the role antibodies play in safe blood banking practice and how the manipulating the properties of these antibodies can be used in healthcare.
Finish with an advanced knowledge of normal and abnormal immune function, and enhanced skills in critical thinking, laboratory techniques and data analysis.
Further to this, it introduces a wide range of applications of these techniques to research and development.
Laboratory and data analysis workshops are utilised to demonstrate theory into practice, and develop practical skills.
These are delivered through a predominantly face to face approach, with some online (asynchronous and synchronous) activities.
You'll interpret laboratory data while discussing associated biochemical, microbial and physiological processes.
And you'll learn to understand the links between symptoms, diagnoses and treatments.
After completing this module, you'll have learned integral skills for advanced clinical practice, essential for Insitute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) accreditation.
Explore healthcare disparities as you grow your understanding of research, ethics and analysis.
You'll refine your approach to research and uncover the skills you need to prepare a robust research proposal.
By the end of this module, you'll be able to confidently identify different types of research study, describe their contribution to evidence-based medicine, and explain the value of clinical trials in modern research.
You’ll rapidly build knowledge across disciplines like marketing, finance and project management.
You'll become equipped to evaluate and pursue new commercial opportunities.
Working in teams, you’ll practice skills from communication to negotiation by developing plans for a prospective venture, receiving expert insights from practitioners along the way.
With assessments focused on conceiving and presenting an impactful business case, you’ll strengthen abilities to persuade with data-backed reasoning.
The following modules are taught at the partner institution Edith Cowan University.
Core modules include:
Undertake in depth study of a variety of cellular processes and how defects in these processes can lead to malignancy, and mitochondrial disorders.
Examine how genetic lesions underpin the pathophysiology of selected disease states and consider the diagnosis and treatment of selected genetic diseases.
You'll develop your knowledge and critical thinking through a face to face learning and guided online activities, and continually monitor your subject understanding through formative assessments (e.g.
knowledge check quizzes).
You'll critically discuss the mechanisms of disease initiation and development at the molecular, cellular and systems levels, and the approaches and strategies employed for prevention and management of infectious diseases.
You'll also critically discuss approaches to the diagnosis and monitoring of selected disease states, current clinical and laboratory practices for stem cell and solid organ transplantation, and the aetiology, pathology, diagnosis and management of selected complex and multi-system diseases.
You'll explore disciplines such as histopathology, haematology, blood transfusion, microbiology and clinical biochemistry.
Similarly to Pathological Sciences 1 and 2, you'll gain understanding of the biomedical science core disciplines that are essential for the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) accreditation.
Choose to collect new data in the lab or field, or else analyse existing datasets, or conduct an in-depth literature-based systematic review.
You'll work with your supervisor and consider the relevant ethical and safety guidelines as you conduct your research, refining your quantitative and qualitative research methods to draw convincing conclusions.
As well as developing your project and research skills, this module enhances your job application and interview techniques so you finish your studies ready to take positive next steps towards your future career.
You will attend research debate, webinars, and seminars, which will support your understanding of the scope, relevance and impact of the research and could serve as a catalyst for your own future research career choice.
You will practise writing academic scientific manuscripts and research grant proposals.
During journal club discussions and presentations of scientific articles, you will work as part of a small group.
However, you will also have the chance to showcase your independent learning and engagement with the topics by completing a portfolio throughout the module.
The portfolio will serve as a useful tool in keeping you up to date with current research in the medical and biomedical science world.
Undertaking of this module will help to prepare for applications for MRes and MSc in Biomedical Research, or similar.
Working in teams, you'll evaluate clinical and laboratory findings, diagnose conditions and recommend evidence-based care pathways.
You'll investigate different sources to build and demonstrate in-depth understanding.
You'll refine your teamworking abilities - from delegation to conflict resolution - while group projects and receiving feedback from your peers.
This module equips you with competencies like communication, ethics and critical thinking – skills that are highly valued across healthcare careers.
You can access all teaching resources on Moodle, our virtual learning environment, from anywhere with a web connection.
Academic staff have expertise in clinical practice and research.
Our HCPC registered Biomedical Scientists work closely with the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) advisory panels to ensure what you learn reflects new development and technology in the field.
Two of our HCPC registered staff are also members of the Institute of Biomedical Science Specialist Advisory Panel for their disciplines, as well as deputy chief examiners for professional exams.
Many of the course team are Fellows or Senior Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, and some have won student-led awards for their approaches to teaching and student support.
The complementary curriculum at Edith Cowan University is taught by experts in the fields of precision medicine, genetics, forensic genetics, development, reproduction and ageing.
At university, as well as spending time in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and tutorials, you’ll do lots of independent study with support from our staff when you need it.
In your first year, you'll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical classes and workshops for about 12–20 hours a week.
You'll start year 3 at Edith Cowan University in July.
This follows the end of the second academic year in Portsmouth.
You’ll finish your year studying abroad in May the following year.
You'll study at Edith Cowan University's Joondalup Campus during your third year and student accommodation is available on the Mount Lawley Campus , although other options are available.
Fees may be subject to annual increase.
International students
Please note, we'll confirm 2026 course fees soo
You'll need to pay for meal and other living costs while completing compulsory fieldwork, amounting to £50-£1000.
Travel and accommodation costs are covered by your course fee.
You'll also need to contribute towards the cost of any optional fieldwork programmes, which usually come to £50 -£1000.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-psychological-sciences-dual-degree:
Develop specialist knowledge and skills in a range of psychological subjects on this dual degree in Psychological Sciences while studying at Portsmouth and Edith Cowan University, Australia.
C850
120–128 UCAS points from 3 A levels or equivalent
Enrich the lives of others and start your path towards a career that makes a difference.
On this BSc (Hons) Psychological Sciences dual degree, you’ll develop specialist knowledge and skills in a range of psychological subjects, including social interaction, learning and memory, child development, comparative and evolutionary psychology, clinical and health psychology.
You'll study in Portsmouth and spend a year at Edith Cowan University in Perth, Western Australia, giving you international experience and a global perspective on psychology.
When you graduate, you’ll be in a strong position to continue your training as a psychologist and succeed in many professional specialisms, from health and education to sports and forensics.
Psychology at the University of Portsmouth is ranked 5th of the modern universities for research quality
Read more about our excellent psychology research
This degree offers eligibility for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), if you graduate with a 2:2 or higher.
While both courses study the mind and behaviour, on this BSc (Hons) Psychological Sciences Dual Degree you'll have the guaranteed opportunity to study abroad, expand your horizons and graduate with two degrees.
Discover Dual Degrees
These are just a few of the facilities you'll use during your psychological sciences degree.
Record and analyse physical responses, such as electrical activity in the brain, neural processes, blood pressure and heart rate, to explore how the body reacts to different psychological states.
Discover how eye movement can be tracked and analysed to measure spatial attention, and used to study areas such as face recognition and change blindness.
Learn how thermal camera technology can be used to read physiological activity in the face and reveal signs of deception.
With our motion capture lab, human movements can be precisely recorded and analysed, providing objective measurements of behaviour.
Once you graduate from your BSc (Hons) Psychological Sciences degree, you’ll have taken your first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol), readying you to continue your training.
By choosing specialist subjects in your final year, you'll have gained the skills and knowledge to start specialising in fields such as sport psychology, neuroscience, organisational psychology, forensic psychology, educational psychology, and clinical and health psychology.
To continue your Chartered Psychologist training, you'll need a Master's degree in your chosen specialty, this could include MSc Forensic Psychology , MSc Health Psychology , or MSc Sport and Exercise Psychology .
With more than 750,000 people in the UK working in areas that involve psychology (British Psychological Society), you'll also have the opportunity to take on a wide range of roles outside being a Chartered Psychologist.
This could include human resources, police work, social welfare, marketing and more.
As a Chartered Psychologist, areas you could specialise in include:
The transferable skills you'll learn are also in demand in other fields, such as:
Graduates of this course could go on to work in roles such as:
You'll have the opportunity to boost your career prospects by taking an optional work placement module either in your second or fourth year.
In addition to boosting your employability, placements allow you to gain real-world work experience, which can help you better understand your chosen field and put your skills into practice.
No matter what placement option you choose, your tutor and the team of Science and Health Careers advisors will help you find a work placement and develop your employability.
You'll receive a database of placement vacancies from them and they'll continuously advertise open positions in professional areas related to psychology or involving psychology in the workplace.
Students on this course could go on to complete placements in organisations such as:
Each module on this course is worth a certain number of credits.
For example, four modules worth 20 credits and one module worth 40 credits.
Critically assess theories and research methodologies exploring why animals, including humans, behave as they do.
Compare key findings from literature in animal behaviour and learn to place human psychology in the broader framework of evolutionary and comparative psychology.
You'll have opportunities to practice your qualitative and quantitative research skills by conducting and reporting your own research study and completing other research exercises.
You'll learn basic concepts and the theoretical underpinnings of qualitative data collection and analysis, while also mastering the execution and application of appropriate descriptive and inferential statistics tailored to address a specific research question.
You'll address pertinent issues in psychological research, learn to effectively search literature, reference with confidence, communicate ideas both verbally and in writing, and reflect meaningfully on your learning experience.
Explore the historical, conceptual and methodological approaches to psychology, learning how psychology has grown as a discipline.
You'll delve into different theories and current perspectives within psychology, learning how to apply multiple perspectives to modern issues, questions and debates.
You'll examine how different psychological approaches explain and treat mental illness, and learn the basic principles behind psychological methods, considering how psychology has developed as a science.
You'll examine key experiments in the advancement of both biological and cognitive psychology and assess different research methods and techniques used, while considering the relationship between theory and method.
You'll identify the role of physiology in human behaviour, emotion, and cognition and identify the relevant structures and functions of the human nervous system.
You'll explore theoretical issues in intelligence and personality assessment, and the practical application of psychometric tests.
You'll generate scores from psychometric tests, interpret results and provide appropriate candidate feedback.
Assess and improve your employment-relevant skills to align with the requirements of potential occupations.
You'll have the opportunity to specialise by selecting from one of four different experiential pathways within the module.
This includes careers in psychology, research-based learning, work-based learning or social enterprise.
Should you choose careers in psychology or social enterprise you'll attend 10 hours of seminars.
If you choose research or work-based learning, you'll have the opportunity to gain up to 40 hours research experience or external work experience and attend 10 hours of practical classes/workshops and supervision meetings.
As part of this module, you'll have access to an integrated personal tutorial programme.
You'll formulate testable hypotheses, gain practical skills in designing experimental and non-experimental behavioural studies, collect original data, and analysise it using specialist software.
You'll also learn to evaluate psychological research techniques, interpret your findings in the context of previous studies, and communicate them to a wide audience, both orally and in written scientific reports.
Develop measurements and instruments following scientific principles as you process psychologial data through statistics and learn how to skillfully interpret patterns in data using psychological approaches and SPSS software.
Enrich your ability to synthesise data, manipulate it and make informed evidence based conclusions when investigating behaviours in ethical, creative and socially responsible ways.
You'll examine findings, using and applying these in analytical, imaginative, and creative ways, and assess the relevance and application of social and developmental psychology to everyday situations, problems, and practice.
With expanded knowledge, you'll confidently discuss the theories and concepts that influence social and developmental psychology.
Optional modules include:
All modules in this year are optional.
Investigate aspects of human and nonhuman animal behaviours that have been shaped by evolutionary processes.
You’ll assess relevant theory and research findings in comparative and evolutionary psychology disciplines.
You'll evaluate different approaches to the study of behaviour, cognition and emotion, finishing with a new and profound perspective on why we behave the way we do.
You'll compare cross-cultural research methods and findings, and evaluate specific topics, as you learn the crucial role of cultural understanding in psychology.
Finish with strong knowledge on the issues surrounding culture and psychology and how they influence one another.
Explore essential topics in education, examine research and theories, and consider how they inform practice.
You'll use critical thinking to determine the relevance of findings using critical thinking and reflect on the history, concepts and practice of educational psychology.
From understanding its origins to considering its present day relevance, you'll consider the theories, methods and applications pertinent to the discipline.
Example topics covered by the module include: understanding eco-anxiety; the restorative health and wellbeing benefits of nature; barriers and facilitators of pro-environmental behaviour; social acceptance of low-carbon technologies; environmental communication and education programmes; place identity and theories of place; human behaviour and cognition in virtual and extreme environments; and the design of built environments (e.g.
workplaces, schools, urban spaces) to promote productivity, improve wellbeing and reduce crime.
Particular emphasis will be given to effect sizes and confidence intervals.
At a practical level, the module will develop advanced statistical analysis skills using appropriate computer packages and support you to develop your skills in both reporting and interpreting statistical results.
You'll differentiate between specified psychological approaches and methodologies used in the study of both psychological distress and physical health and/or illness, considering their strengths, limitations, and appropriateness.
You'll apply theory and research findings appropriately to applied topics and problems in clinical and health psychology while also outlining and critically evaluating approaches within these fields.
You'll explain how biopsychosocial factors are implicated in health conditions, addressing both physical and mental health.
Explore the relationship between theories and broader psychological, philosophical, scientific and cultural developments as you apply methods of investigation and communicative phenomena to generate ideas and solutions.
Through lectures and practical classess, you'll assess various verbal and non-verbal interactions, exploring how theories can be applied in research and how they inform everyday life.
You'll compare the main methods used in modern neuroscience revealing brain complexities whilst covering historical and emerging areas of interest.
You'll also explore clinical and non-clinical applications of neuroscience.
Explore the major theoretical frameworks and research methodologies used, focusing on how forensic psychology has been informed by this across different subfields in psychology.
Develop analytical skills by combining literature across different subfields within forensic psychology.
Finish with enhanced knowledge on the contribution of forensic psychology to real world practice.
Specifically, taught content will explore essential psychological constructs relevant in sport and exercise psychology.
The module will encourage you to critically discuss and report on the key social and development topics encountered by practitioners when working in sport and exercise.
You'll also develop a critical awareness of a range of psychological strategies (and the underpinning theory and research) that can be employed to improve athlete, team, and coach performance.
This module will provide an understanding of sport psychology application and professional practice.
Specifically, taught content will explore the role of the sport psychology practitioner, models of practice, and the philosophical, ethical, and how psychological constructs work in sport and exercise psychology settings.
The module will introduce you to conducting and interpreting sport psychology initial assessments with athletes, teams and coaches.
You'll be required to draw upon appropriate research methods to gather data that addresses a specific research question or psychological issue.
The rationale for the study, the adopted research methodology and the findings are presented in an extended report.
Your proposed research must undergo a formal ethical review process before project work may begin.
You'll be allocated to a project supervisor, prior to the start of Level 6, who will support you via regular meetings during the project.
The module also contains an integrated personal tutorial system.
You'll also present a verbal justification for your study and the approach adopted in the form of a project interview assessment.
Your proposed research must undergo a formal ethical review process before project work may begin.
You'll be  allocated to a project supervisor, prior to the start of Level 6, who will support you via regular meetings during the project.
We’ll provide guidance to help you find and secure an exciting placement opportunity and you’ll have support from the Module Coordinator and a dedicated Placement Tutor during your placement.
You’ll get to put everything you’ve learned so far into action in a real workplace, demonstrating an appropriate level of initiative, independence and skill (based on the HCPC Standards of Proficiency).
You'll manage and complete tasks and return able to evaluate how your work placement activities relate to your studies, presenting a critical evaluation of your professional development.
Throughout this module, you'll have the opportunity to delve into various subjects such as: assessing contrasting approaches and paradigms of disability knowledge, researching practices, intersectionality and disability, empowerment, the psychology of helping, community and social capital, sex and sexuality, quality of life and stigma, and emancipatory and participatory disability research.
Therefore, some course content may change over time to reflect changes in the discipline or industry.
If a module doesn't run, we'll let you know as soon as possible and help you choose an alternative module.
Course specification
You’ll be assessed through:
Teaching is informed by our internationally recognised research across four key areas.
This includes forensic, health, comparative and developmental psychology.
You'll also take part in collaborative learning techniques through tutorial exercises that focus on specific issues in psychology and case studies.
You'll have access to all teaching resources and sessions on Moodle, our virtual learning environment, from anywhere with a web connection.
Many of the teaching staff on this BSc (Hons) Psychological Sciences course are research active with expert knowledge of a variety of areas relevant to psychological science.
These are some of the expert staff who'll teach you on this course:
Associate Head (Global Engagement and Education Partnerships)
Eszter.Somogyi@port.ac.uk
Associate Head (Students)
Roger.S.Moore@port.ac.uk
We recognise that you'll probably be juggling more demands when you do your Master's degree, as you may be working or you may have family responsibilities.
We'll give you as much indication here as we can of how much time you'll need to be on campus and how many hours you can expect to spend in self-directed study, but please note that these indications are always subject to change.
You should receive your full timetable several weeks before you start with us.
In your first year, you'll spend about 10 hours a week in timetabled teaching activities such as tutorials, lectures, seminars and practical classes or workshops.
You'll have personal tutorials built into your modules, with weekly meetings in your first year and fortnightly meetings in your second year.
You'll probably do more independent study and have less scheduled teaching in years 2 and 3, but this depends on which modules you choose.
All our labs and practical spaces are staffed by qualified laboratory support staff.
They’ll support you in scheduled lab sessions and can give you one-to-one help when you do practical research projects.
You can also receive support and training from our departmental technical team to use s pecialist psychology equipment and facilities.
The Maths Café offers advice and assistance with mathematical skills in a friendly, informal environment.
You can come to our daily drop-in sessions, develop your maths skills at a workshop or use our online resources.
During your time at Edith Cowan University (ECU), you'll be assigned an academic contact who, alongside module coordinators, will provide pastoral and academic support throughout your study overseas.
You'll also have ongoing support from your course leader, personal tutor and the Global team at University of Portsmouth.
During your final year project, you'll have access to the departmental StatHelp team’s support for statistical analyses.
If you've already completed part of this course with us or another university and would like to apply for the second, third or fourth year with us in September 2025, use our online application form .
To start this course in 2026, apply through UCAS .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-hons-international-business:
3 years full-time starting September 2025
N123,                      N122
112-120 UCAS points from 3 A levels, or equivalent
Choose an international business degree that gives you experience living and studying abroad as you build your business knowledge and employable skills.
Our BA (Hons) International Business course covers vital business topics and gives you the chance to use your new knowledge as you study, including by collaborating with students overseas in our virtual exchange project.
And if you choose to study with a specific partner and complete an industrial placement year before your third year, you’ll earn two undergraduate degrees in 4 years as a dual degree.
During your first year you’ll explore business subjects such as marketing, operations and accounting.
You’ll choose where to study during your second year, supported by our Global Engagement Team, and prepare for your year abroad.
You’ll spend your second year studying at one of our partner universities in Europe, Australia, Canada, Japan, China, South Korea, Thailand or the USA.
Here, you’ll explore business from a non-UK viewpoint and deepen your understanding of global business.
You could even divide your time away and study at two institutions across the year to experience two different countries and cultures.
After your year abroad you could complete an optional paid industry placement, where you’ll work with a company before your final year of study.
Our Placement Team will support you in your job search, as well as during your placement, whether you choose to work in the UK or overseas.
You’ll return to Portsmouth for your final year and explore business leadership with a focus on subjects like strategic management, sustainability and globalisation.
You’ll choose specialisms to study in more detail too, such as Equality and Diversity, Transformative Marketing or Business Improvement.
If you returned to your studies straight after your year aboard, you could take your industrial placement after your final year.
During this placement you'll work for a company for a year before you graduate, and have the support of our Placement Team as you start your career.
You’ll graduate with a broad understanding of modern business, the confidence to work internationally, and the skills and experience you need to begin your career across a range of global business sectors.
Universities UK International: ‘Gone International, Rising Aspirations’, 2019
Read more about our business and management research
On this course you can choose to study a dual degree in international business.
This means that you can earn 2 degrees in 4 years instead of the normal 6 years.
The degrees are:
To achieve this you must:
Our Faculty Global Engagement Office can advise you on travel arrangements, finding accommodation and accessing funding that can help pay for your study and living costs when you're abroad.
"It was a great opportunity for me to meet other people..."
Find out about the amazing opportunities Emine has taken advantage of as part of her studies, and what she plans to do next.
As part of my course we have a compulsory year abroad and I did my year abroad studying in the Netherlands.
It was a great opportunity for me to meet other people.
I did have a work placement working for Rolls-Royce Motor cars in the logistics department where I was responsible for arranging all the inbound and outbound transports for the company.
After graduating I'll be working for EUI as being an insurance graduate where I will have the opportunities to study towards my ACCA qualification in being able to gain experience working in an audit firm.
We have partnered with the CMI so that you can gain a value-added professional qualification alongside your degree.
Students on our BA International Business can be awarded a CMI Level 5 Award in Management and Leadership upon successful completion of their degree programme.
Upon joining their degree course, students become members of the CMI and can access a range of benefits, resources and events to support their professional development.
The University of Portsmouth has earned business accreditation from the AACSB in recognition of the outstanding quality of its business and management education.
Less than six percent of the world's schools offering business degree programs hold AACSB business accreditation.
94%
of graduates in work or further study 15 months after this course
(HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22)
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Business with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Business.
Find out more about our foundation years with ICP
Please note this foundation year with ICP isn't currently open to EU or International students.
You must spend your second year abroad studying business modules at a partner university.
You'll have the option to split the year into two six month sections and experience two different universities and countries if you wish.
Many students from Portsmouth take the opportunity to study abroad, but students on this course get priority when placements are being allocated.
We recognise that spending a year abroad is both exciting and a little scary.
In your first year you'll take a whole module dedicated to helping you prepare and make the right choice about where you study.
Throughout your time away you'll have the full support of your course leader, our global office and our placements team.
You do not pay any fees to the overseas university, but you'll continue to pay a reduced tuition fee to Portsmouth during your year abroad.
You'll still be able to get both your tuition fee and maintenance loans.
You may also qualify for a government travel grant .
Explore your possible destinations
Choosing to study abroad was by far the best decision I made during university.
I moved to Lille, in France, to study at EDHEC Business School and it provided me with the opportunities to travel across Europe and meet people from all across the globe, while improving my confidence and independence.
Molly Jones, Alumna of BA International Business
This degree will open doors to a wide variety of careers in the business world.
Being able to talk about your international experience and global business learning will give you an advantage when applying to multinational companies in particular.
If you study this course as a dual degree, you'll graduate with two degrees as well as your university study and placement experiences to showcase your in depth knowledge of international business and your soft skills such as working with people.
(Data sourced from HESA Graduate Outcome Surveys)
Other graduates have continued their studies at postgraduate level or set up successful businesses with help and support from the University.
Work for a client on a real brief in this optional Business Consultancy module.
Students work in teams of 3-4 to bid for a business project from local organisations, before working directly with the organisation to execute the project.
Clients range from small to medium sized organisations who could be from the private, public or third sector (such as charities, not-for-profits and community organisations).
Each project is different, but the tasks you compete could include:
You’ll give your client regular updates on the project, and get feedback from them, other students and staff as you progress.
Past students have worked with Santander , local facilities management firm Inovolt , the Instant Kitchen Company startup, Solent Recovery College , and local radio station Express FM .
At the end of your project, you'll be invited to a celebratory event where you can network with representatives from the client organisations.
You can boost your employability even more by taking an optional paid placement year in the UK or overseas.
You could take your placement straight after your year abroad (in Year 3) or after your third year of study, right before your graduate.
The average salary for a 12-month paid placement is £19,800 for students in the Faculty of Business and Law, but your salary could be more or less than this amount depending on your placement.
You'll only pay a very small percentage of your tuition fee for this year.
Previous students have had placements in organisations such as:
Many of our students are offered a graduate job by their placement employer.
You could also set up your own business with support from us.
If you don't want to take a whole placement year we offer plenty of other ways to get great work experience whilst you study, from summer internships to entrepreneurial support .
If you want to qualify for a dual degree you must do a placement in your third year.
This placement can be in the UK or overseas and you'll be supported by both universities.
For example, 4 modules worth 20 credits and 1 module worth 40 credits.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer this course with a foundation year to bring you up to speed.
Topics covered include an overview of accounting and financial reporting, basic numerical techniques for accounting, introduction to trading accounts and profit and loss accounts (income statements), understanding the cost of sales, balance sheets, and current assets and liabilities.
You'll recognise the legal aspects and requirements of companies, recall and define the basic principles of contract formation, and become familiar with the content of commercial and consumer contracts, including the use of exclusion clauses.
The module will also enable you to define the law regarding the rights of individual employees.
You'll get the foundational knowledge and skills to get your ready to advance onto the first year of a degree at the University of Portsmouth.
You'll gain an appreciation for the knowledge and skills required to effectively manage and operate a business.
Topics covered include core concepts in business studies, understanding the business environment, different forms of business structures, business strategy and planning, enterprise, innovation, and entrepreneurship.
You'll also delve into basic financial statements, key financial ratios, costs, budgeting, an introduction to marketing concepts, and creating marketing plans.
Topics covered include the history and fundamental importance of economics, the demand and supply model, elasticity and its applications, different market structures such as perfect competition, monopoly, monopolistic competition, and oligopoly.
Additionally, you'll explore the circular flow model involving households, firms, the financial sector, governments, and the foreign sector.
The module also covers concepts like the business cycle, unemployment, economic growth, inflation, and international trade.
The module introduces candidates to the interesting challenges that ICT presents today and covers many anchor points that may serve as a bridge to their interests and lifestyles.
It also means you understand the value of scholarships, allowing you to move on to postgraduate programs at the University of Portsmouth.
These include approximation and substitution, estimation and percentages, applications of percentages in financial contexts, ratio and proportion, rules of indices, basic algebra, graphs, and quadratic equations.
Students delve into the realms of debate and critical thinking in the context of marketing and International Business studies.
In this module, students engage in a collaborative virtual project with peers from partnering international universities.
This experience allows students to enhance their virtual collaboration skills, cultivate cross-cultural awareness and hone their interpersonal communication abilities — essential for their future in business.
The module tutors act as personal tutors, supporting students in their progress and welfare requirements.
The skills and knowledge gained in this module directly complement other core modules studied in the first year along with fostering important employability and career management expertise.
Students will develop a deep understanding of ethical and cultural challenges in international business while gaining the skills to navigate diverse cultural landscapes effectively.
Discover another culture as you grow your subject knowledge or refine your foreign language skills at one of our partner universities.
You'll enhance your worldliness, self-awareness and cross-cultural communication abilities as you build your international network and meet people from across the world.
At the end of the module you’ll evaluate your development and return to Portsmouth prepared to use your new cultural awareness and maturity to thrive in globalised workplaces.
In this module, students will be encouraged to think like strategy practitioners in today's real life international environment.
Consequently, they will develop the skills and competencies needed to be a good strategist, including the ability to diagnose strategic issues, analyse the industry a company is competing in as well as a firm's capabilities, and synthesizing ideas into creative strategy insights, strategic issue selling, and reflecting upon their practice as strategists.
That reflection will involve critically examining the wider strategy-as-practice literature in terms of the insights it provides for the development of strategy.
Students will also develop an appreciation of the global and international context within which strategists operate and the ethical nature of strategic decision making.
It requires critical engagement with appropriate literature, sound choice of research methods and carrying the planned approach into practice to produce a piece of independent research.
Students will be supported through a mix of large group sessions, workshops and individual appointments to support them to develop a research idea and to realise it as a piece of written work.
Individual appointments will be arranged between supervisor and student.
It emphasizes critical analysis of relevant literature, thoughtful selection of research methods, and the application of these methods to produce an independent research project.
Students will be guided through a combination of lectures and seminars, with access to a supervisor and personal tutor, to support them in developing a research idea, transforming it into a scholarly writing, and applying the research findings to a relevant business context.
The module also fosters an understanding of research ethics, encouraging students to minimise bias, maintain integrity, and ensure a balanced view, while safeguarding the welfare of all participants potentially affected by the research.
Completion of this module will allow students to reach an informed opinion on the basis of the empirical findings of their independent business research.
You'll get a chance to gain a deep understanding of how to apply financial and accounting concepts that will enhance organisational planning, performance measurement and control mechanisms.
There will be a strong focus on interpreting and critically evaluating strategic financial information to inform decisions that align with long-term business goals.
This module is designed to enable you to develop a critically informed understanding of the extent of inequality and discrimination at work, including factors that contribute to workplace disadvantage and the interventions designed to alleviate it.
This includes critically examining the drivers and operation of diversity and inclusion agendas in organizations.
In addition, the module encourages curiosity and critically engages with different forms of information such that you are more aware of social justice issues and how we as individuals can positively interact with their working environment.
You'll spend your working industry, with support from our Placement Office.
You'll complete a placement portfolio for the duration of the placement, which will outline your key learning activities, and attend a Placement Student Day at the University to discuss your placement experience with the Placement Officer or your course leader.
When you successfully complete your placement it will be recognised in your degree transcript of achievement, and your degree certificate will state `in the sandwich mode'.
You may also choose to receive a Certificate of Professional Practice from the Faculty of Business and Law.
Our technology enhanced active learning space promotes social learning.
Experience the boardroom in our replica business suite.
Around 20% of your timetabled teaching will be online.
The majority of your timetabled teaching at Portsmouth will be face-to-face and will include:
How you're assessed will depend on the modules you select.
As well as online assessments and coursework you may be assessed using:
These are some of the expert staff who'll teach you on this course.
Alan.Tait@port.ac.uk
School of Strategy, Marketing, and Innovation
Faculty of Business and Law
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for this degree.
Your total study time will depend on the modules that you take, but in your first year this is what your week may look like:
You'll probably do more independent study and have less scheduled teaching in years 2 and 3, but this depends on which modules you choose and where you spend your year abroad.
In addition to the support you get from your personal tutor, you'll also have access to our student engagement officers.
They can give you confidential, impartial advice on anything to do with your studies and personal wellbeing, and refer you to specialist support services if you need extra help or support.
You'll have help from a team of study support tutors.
Based within the Faculty of Business and Law, these tutors are familiar with the specific requirements your assignments and work closely with faculty academics.
This means they can give you focused support with the specific study skills you need to be successful on your course.
They're available face-to-face, by phone, email, and by video call.
If you're a mature student, specialist support to help you return to learning is available.
Library staff are available in person or by email, phone, or online chat to help you make the most of the University's library resources.
You can also request one-to-one appointments and get support from librarians who specialise in business and law.
You won't pay any extra tuition fees to another university for taking part in a study/work abroad activity if you choose to do it for the whole academic year.
During a year abroad you'll only have to pay a reduced fee to the University of Portsmouth.
If you study this course as part of a dual degree, your tuition fees for years 1 and 4 are the same as the single degree option.
You'll pay a reduced fee for your year abroad, and for your placement year, years 2 and 3.
If you're eligible for a student loan you may be eligible for a Student Finance England Travel Grant to cover some of the travel costs, visas, vaccinations and medical insurance you need to study abroad.
We’ve had successful applications to the Turing Scheme in previous years and are continuing to apply for this funding for each upcoming year.
In your second year, for your placement abroad, you’ll need to fund the costs of travel, transport, accommodation and your living costs.
The exact costs will depend on the destination.
Depending on the location of your placement, there may be further costs for communication or specialist clothing.
When you spend your year at a partner university you don't pay any tuition fees to that university.
You will need to pay a small percentage of the annual tuition fee to the University of Portsmouth in your year abroad.
This funds the support and assessment we give during your year away.
You'll still be eligible for your tuition fee and maintenance loans and you may be eligible for extra funding through the Government's travel grants scheme .
If you take a placement year or study abroad year, tuition fees for that year are as follows:
To apply for this course as a single or dual degree, follow the steps below.
You'll apply to BA (Hons) International Business and decide whether to pursue this course as a single or dual degree after you arrive.
If you plan to study the dual degree version of this course, you only need to apply to the University of Portsmouth and do not need to apply to our partner university.
To start BA (Hons) International Business with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
If you'd prefer to apply directly, use our online application form:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-accounting-with-finance:
On this accredited course you'll develop the analytical techniques and data presentation skills necessary in modern accountancy, and use industry tools to graduate employment-ready.
N4N4,                      N4N1
Modern accountancy isn't all about number crunching and spreadsheets.
As an accountant you need to be able to understand, visualise and present financial data to ensure businesses make the right decisions.
You'll be at the heart of the business, analysing performance and informing strategy.
This degree focuses on modern accountancy skills as well as general business.
You'll learn to inform and persuade using numbers.
You'll work in small groups that replicate the workplace, with a focus on teamwork, real world case studies and developing strategy from financial data.
"All professional accountants will be expected to look beyond the numbers.
They will need to collaborate with people...interpret and explain the numbers, provide insight...think and behave more strategically and become more involved in decision-making than before."
ACCA future skills report
From your second year you'll be able to tailor your learning to your area of specialist interest, choosing your modules to focus on:
The course is accredited by 4 key accounting bodies (ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW and CIPFA), so whichever route you take you'll have lots of exemptions from professional exams.
I have really enjoyed my time at Portsmouth and if I could turn back time I would come back and do it all again!
What really stood out to me was the breadth of commercial and academic experience of the lecturers and their ability to bring the course to life using real world examples.
Aidan Elliot, BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland (ICAS), and the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA).
This means that in addition to achieving a degree, you receive exemptions from ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW and CIPFA professional examinations.
This course offers the maximum number of exemptions for ACCA, CIMA and ICAS.
To progress your career as an accountant you'll need to do further study after graduation whilst you're working.
Combining study and work can be difficult, so it's good to complete as many required units as possible whilst you're still at university.
This also benefits your future employers, as they'll have fewer professional examination fees to pay.
No.
influential business school in the world
Financial Times Teaching Power Rankings 2021
You may need to have studied specific subjects or GCSEs – find full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance.
As well as meeting the entry requirements for this degree and being comfortable working with numbers, we're looking for people who are team players and who embrace a challenge.
Having a curious mind is important, because employers value graduates who can adapt to new situations and find solutions to complex problems.
Volunteer to help solve financial issues for fellow students who are setting up their own businesses.
Help local charities with their financial and accounting issues through this practical module.
Use industry standard business analytics software such as Microsoft BI, Python, and Tableau.
Access data from the world's global financial markets and gain experience using industry standard software.
Gain practical skills with cloud-based software such as SAP and S&P Capital IQ, in our dedicated lab.
No problem is too small or too tough for our Maths Café tutors, who are on hand every day during term-time to help you if you get stuck or need something explained.
Accountants are needed in good times and bad and they're needed in every type of business.
This means that you can apply your skills in any sector you're passionate about, from sports and entertainment, to manufacturing, charities, or the arts.
You'll also be able to work in other parts of the world as your accredited qualification is recognised internationally.
Our graduates go on to work in accounting practice, the finance departments of large corporations, and the finance sector.
(Data taken from HESA Graduate Outcome surveys)
Alumnus Michael Gray did a placement year at BMW before securing a graduate job at Deloitte.
Michael shares how his experience and skills developed at university, and his journey to become a Finance Manager.
My name is Michael Gray and I work for Artifax Software Ltd, and I'm The finance manager there.
I've grown up in Croydon, which is in South London.
I was the first to go to university in my family.
I chose Portsmouth.
That first day of driving into the car park and moving in was something I'll never forget.
So what really sold me?
Being a guy from London, you're not really used to seeing the sea.
You can go for a run to de-stress.
If you do want that city side of stuff, you've got that there also, absolutely perfect for me.
Getting a job in my placement year was definitely more difficult than getting a graduate job.
A job popped up from BMW.
To be honest, I couldn't have wished for a better placement year.
I think one of the main reasons I got the job was because of the really good support that I got from the university.
From CV building to interview practice, it was really exceptional.
You think you're going to excel, but you're not really that good at excel until you actually are thrown in the fire.
I think the thing I'm most proud of in my journey so far is getting the call from Deloitte saying that I was lucky enough to be recruited.
That was an amazing thing.
Imagine, one of the big four that you learnt throughout your studies that these are the sort of companies you want to aspire to and be recruited by, and getting that phone call was something I could have never imagined.
So, the future for me is that within the next five years, I'll be CFO of the group of companies.
That's the aim.
If I didn't go to the University of Portsmouth, I probably would be wondering what I want to do next probably, but because I had that support network of great tutors, I knew exactly what I wanted to do, that was invaluable.
Take part in virtual meetings with alumni mentors who are working in industry.
Hear about their journeys, successes and challenges as you prepare for the transition from student to working professional.
Explore the programme
If you decide at the end of your studies that you don't want to qualify as an accountant there are many other options open to you.
The data analysis skills and problem-solving skills you'll develop on this course will open many other doors.
You could also choose to continue your studies at postgraduate level , or set up your own business with help and support from the University.
The degree really builds you as a young professional and makes you ‘well-rounded’ and employable; top employers want more than just a good degree classification nowadays.
At Portsmouth, they have a clear intent on making you a great candidate to potential employers.
Michael Webber, BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance 2017 graduate, Management Accountant at The Championships, Wimbledon
You can boost your employability by taking an optional paid placement year between years 2 and 3 of your degree, or after year 3.
Many of our students are offered graduate jobs by their placement employers.
My role as a Finance Intern at ISS UK Head Office involved providing support in key areas.
What I enjoyed most about this was being a part of high level finance team.
I would recommend doing a placement as it gives you a good idea of what it is like to work in a professional function and what skills you will need to acquire in order to develop and succeed in the future.
Blake McQuilken, BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance
The average salary for a 12-month paid placement is £19,800 for students in the Faculty of Business and Law.
It could be more or less than this amount depending on your placement.
I worked with different systems such as Blackline, Auditboard and Workiva doing different types of Audits across many countries for financial close, Leases, Inventory and Revenue controls.
Billy Stone, Placement student at CooperCompanies, BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance
In your second year you can choose to study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, Asia, Australia or North America.
All classes are delivered in English and you'll still be able to get both your tuition fee and maintenance loans.
Students that go abroad are more likely to obtain first-class honours [and] more likely to be in graduate employment than their non-mobile peers.
Universities UK International: 'Gone International, Rising Aspirations', 2019
By tackling problems and evaluating real-world scenarios, you’ll apply theories to issues like trade and employment — discovering how economics shapes decisions globally and nationally.
With a rounded understanding, you’ll finish this module ready to explain the factors driving growth, business cycles and living standards.
This module is accredited by professional accounting bodies and contributes towards exemptions from professional accounting examinations (subject to meeting any additional threshold requirements of the professional accounting bodies).
You'll gain financial literacy and learn to apply concepts and conventions to record transactions and prepare statements.
You'll build your technical skills using double-entry booking, and gain the core knowledge you need to advance professionally in this area.
Discover topics including data mining, statistical modelling, data cleaning and decision-focused visualisations.
This foundational module develops the skills you need to draw and communicate insights from data.
When you finish this module you’ll be fully equipped to identify and use data patterns to drive results.
Explore the essential role of financial markets and institutions in today’s economy.
This module will develop your understanding of key financial theories, market structures and institutions, equipping you with the analytical skills to interpret real-world data.
Delivered through two-hour workshops, you’ll work with S&P’s Capital IQ database to examine financial securities and markets, gaining practical insights and experience.
It covers the role of the accounting functions in organisational management and development.
The module looks at basic management accounting techniques which gives a good foundation of understanding for second year modules.
This module is accredited by professional accounting bodies and contributes towards exemptions from professional accounting exams (subject to meeting any additional threshold requirements of the professional accounting bodies).
Demonstrate key employable qualities through group projects where you'll refine your written and oral communication, teamwork and problem-solving.
You'll develop an individual portfolio and build your technical abilities with specific accounting software, so that you finish this module with the transferable skills and IT proficiency to excel in a range of accounting roles.
Gain insight into UK regulations around corporate reporting by analysing concepts and applying them to real-world situations.
Develop your skills in evaluating and interpreting financial statements, and learn to identify limitations of the information.
Reflect on pressing issues around governance, sustainability, ethics and internal controls as you refine your problem-solving, research and communication abilities.
You'll study with case studies, plenaries and student-led activities, and finish this module fully prepared to appraise financial reports.
This accredited module contributes towards professional accounting exams — boosting your employability as you study.
Master concepts from budgeting to pricing, and prepare to select and use accounting techniques to reduce costs, boost profitability, and improve performance.
By tackling problems through case studies, you’ll evaluate options to plan operations or launch new products and services.
You'll finish this module ready to shape the future direction of organisations and advise managers.
As business demands broaden, the need to balance financial performance with sustainability and ethical accountability has become essential for accountants.
This module will help you to explore how sustainability, ethics and governance are shaping modern accounting.
You’ll dive into real-world debates, from greenwashing to the challenges of balancing profit with environmental impact.
Alongside core financial theories, you’ll learn how non-financial reporting is becoming just as crucial for transparency and decision-making.
Through case studies and discussions, you’ll develop the skills to produce clear, ethical and forward-thinking reports that will help businesses grow responsibly.
You'll learn how managers support investment decisions, planning, risk management and more as you explore topics like project appraisals, budgeting, working capital optimisation and sourcing funding in workshops, all while tackling real-world cases.
With assessments and activities that focus on applying concepts to business scenarios, you’ll build your analytical skills to evaluate options and provide strategic recommendations.
When you finish this module, you’ll have the foundations to advance into corporate finance as well as the practical toolkit to immediately improve an organisation’s financial health and pursuit of goals.
This level 5 module is delivered at level 5 under a franchise collaborative arrangement at Kaplan Singapore, using- Singaporean Law.
Any changes to this unit must also be reflected in the corresponding Kaplan unit Business Law for Accountants (Kaplan) where appropriate, maintaining the learning outcomes at level 5 and the Singaporean Law context.
Using practical examples, you'll perform calculations while navigating complex regulations and planning opportunities.
From income tax to VAT, you'll cover individual, corporate and cross-border taxation, considering liabilities alongside strategy.
With a handle on core compliance plus critical thinking around policy issues, you'll be equipped to absorb knowledge and pioneer reform that could shape future fiscal landscapes.
This module will cover a variety of topics including data visualisation, data cleaning, statistical modelling and Natural Language Processing (NLP) core competencies to enhance your employability in an increasingly competitive job market.
You'll gain invaluable experience in advanced spreadsheet modelling, data visualisation software and introductory programming for natural language processing.
This module will address the following Hallmarks of a University of Portsmouth graduate through learning and assessment:
You'll develop a robust understanding of the key principles and theories in managerial economics, including the tools you need to make decisions under uncertainty.
You'll explore public policy around private organizations, helping you grasp real-world applications.
By reviewing academic literature, you'll make your own policy recommendations and compare theories managers use when making choices.
And through assessment and discussion, you'll interpret the effectiveness of these theories in an international business setting.
You'll learn trending tools such as network analysis tools and finish this module well-trained in highly-relevant policy tools.
This module is delivered under a franchise collaborative arrangement at Kaplan Singapore.
Any changes to this module must also be made to the corresponding Kaplan module (code needed).
Moodle books and workshops introduce main principles and application in practice, providing a basis for independent learning on the part of the student, contributing to the achievement of all learning outcomes.
Practical Classes and Workshops engage students in formative problem-solving activities addressing all learning outcomes The module is assessed through a 2 hour exam (+15 minutes reading time), continuous assessment: portfolio and practical skills assessment.
This module is also delivered under a franchise collaborative arrangement at Kaplan Singapore.
Any changes to this module must also be made to the corresponding Kaplan module Strategic Management Accounting M30897.
Module assessment includes a individual portfolio and a year-end exam.
The exam is 2 hour plus 15 minutes reading time.
The topics are delivered in 2 hour group sessions.
Topics will be introduced through the use of tutor led discussion and directed, referenced material.
Themes from the topics will be developed via the session programme, the issue of directed study material and business case studies and the assessment portfolio.
The sessions will utilise a mixture of case studies, problems and discussion themes (elements of which will be undertaken in a group setting).
It is also recognised that the strategy is guided by the needs of the professional accounting bodies.
Workshops play a key role within the learning strategy for this module; content material is presented on Moodle which students work through in their own time and students will work through group and individual exercises linked to that material during the twice weekly workshops.
Where appropriate, links will be made to current business affairs using case studies and/or financial data.
This module provides a platform for students to explore a specific area of interest in depth and contribute to the existing body of knowledge in the field of accounting and finance.
Throughout the module's lectures and supervision, students will be guided through the research process, starting with the formulation of a clear and concise research question or hypothesis.
Students will be assigned a supervisor based upon their chosen topic.
Overall, the undergraduate dissertation module should foster critical thinking, independent research, and academic excellence, preparing students for further academic pursuits or professional careers that require advanced research skills.
Guided by experts, you'll outline aims, critically appraising literature to position your contribution.
Then, through rigourous analysis, you'll draw meaningful conclusions and make recommendations for the future.
Developing your skills as an agile, solutions-focused professional, you'll refine project management, research and communications capabilities essential in any career.
Ultimately, you'll produce a compelling showcase piece - evidencing your ability to drive progress through independent enquiry.
The topics covered in the workshops range from basic investment concepts and financial analysis to application of different investment strategies.
The workshops will be held in both computer labs and classrooms.
These sessions will help the students understand the financial environment through practical use of financial databases whereas the classroom based workshops will be given tasks and presented information on analysing companies financial performance and positions.
Working in teams and mentored by experts, you'll respond ethically and creatively to address an organisation's accounting needs — from reporting enhancements and process improvements, to independent examinations.
With opportunities to tailor solutions to different contexts for local charities, you'll practise adaptability and constructive reflection.
By producing a portfolio, you'll evidence effective collaboration, communication and ultimately the ability to pioneer positive change.
You'll take part in interactive workshops as you learn to apply auditing principles, procedures and techniques to real business scenarios.
You'll be assessed through methods from online quizzes to reports that evaluate your practice.
You'll critique the role of auditors in national and global contexts, appraising real audits, and analyse ethical requirements.
As you gain critical insight into the auditing profession's responsibilities, practices and direction, you'll prepare to evaluate developments in auditing.
After you finish this module you'll be equipped with the technical expertise and professional judgement you need for the field.
You'll explore descriptive, diagnostic and predictive analytics, and use the CRISP framework to mine business datasets.
By the end of this module you'll be able able to use your statistical, visual and modelling skills in packages like Excel and Stata to convert raw information into strategic opportunities and commercial success.
In doing so, students will develop analytical skills in the application of theory and empirical research to financial management.
This module will address the following Hallmarks of a University of Portsmouth graduate, through learning and assessment: - Have a critical and reflective knowledge and understanding of their subject, with both the ability and readiness to question its principles, practices and boundaries.
- Think independently, analytically and creatively, and engage imaginatively with new areas of investigation within and across discipline boundaries.
- Be able to locate, access and critically engage with information, using current and emerging digital technologies.
- Have an enterprising spirit, bringing innovation and productivity to the groups and communities to which they belong.
Strategic Management will give you the tools to analyse, develop and implement business strategies.
You’ll explore key frameworks, assess real-world strategic challenges and learn how to make informed decisions at both business and corporate levels.
Through case studies and practical applications, you’ll develop the skills to identify challenges, evaluate options and recommend strategies that drive success and long-term growth.
Boost your employability by taking an industry-based work placement year or immerse yourself in another culture by studying for a year at one of our partner universities worldwide.
This is an amazing opportunity to either put everything you’ve learned so far into action in a real workplace in the UK or overseas, or to expand your horizons and set yourself up for your future career by studying abroad.
If you choose a work placement year, we’ll help you find and secure an exciting placement opportunity within an appropriate company or organisation.
You’ll have the chance to try out skills and gain experience that’ll help you clarify your next career steps, while building capabilities employers seek.
If you choose to study abroad, you’ll expand your global perspective and develop additional skills to boost your future career, as well as making memories, new friends and career contacts.
We're the only university that gives you the flexibility to choose when to take a work placement.
Take it after your second year, before returning to finish your studies.
Or after your final year, connecting you into the workplace.
If you're not sure if or when to take your placement, don't worry.
You'll have plenty of time to settle into your studies and explore your options before making your choice.
Find out more about Connected Degrees
Not quite sure this course is right for you?
Take a look at our other accounting courses to compare your options.
If you'd like to combine your studies of finance with a broader understanding of business, looking at how finance works with other business sectors such as operations and people management, this BA Financial Management degree may be for you.
If you've done some of an accounting degree at another institution and you're interested in a career in accountancy this ACCA and CIMA accredited top-up BA Accountancy and Financial Management is a good choice.
Although designed primarily for international students this top-up doesn't include any English language or communication modules.
What sticks out about my course is that there are so many elements incorporated to help us learn from different perspectives.
You will learn economical, psychological, business, mathematical and technical abilities that will give you more confidence to enter any industry as it all links to one another.
Lola Akinpeloye, BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance
Our teaching has been developed to maximise skills that employers are looking for.
In our classes you'll engage in activities that both enhance your learning and develop your communication, presentation and team working skills.
Where appropriate, you'll use computer packages that are valued within the accounting and finance professions.
The majority of your timetabled teaching will be face-to-face and will include:
We pride ourselves on the academic support we offer our students.
In addition to our dedicated teaching team, you'll have a personal tutor, student engagement officers and study support staff to help you throughout your studies.
We use a diverse range of assessments and we focus on the types of work you'll be expected to complete in the workplace.
As with all accounting courses, accreditation requirements mean that you will be assessed by a number of exams, but your assessment will depend on which modules you take.
Assessment methods are likely to include:
Associate Professor in Accounting and Sport Finance
Christina.Philippou@port.ac.uk
Accounting and Financial Management
The Maths Cafe offers free advice and help with maths skills in a friendly, informal environment.
You can come to our daily drop-in sessions, develop your maths skills at a workshop, or use our online resources.
Hear from Nigerian graduate Jesse Targema-Takema about his journey to Portsmouth, his experience studying, and life now as an Investment Banking Analyst in London.
Find out how the University supported him throughout his degree.
[Jesse Targema-Takema - BA (Hons) Accounting with Finance, 2020]
Jesse: I was just very interested in business in general.
And as they say, accounting is the language of business, so I thought marry my love for business with accounting.
So I've got two older sisters that actually graduated from Portsmouth.
It was definitely very different to to living in Nigeria so It was quite nice to have them here because it was nice to settle in a lot quicker than I would have if I didn't have them here.
They really spoke about the great community here at Portsmouth.
I personally thought the lecturers were very good.
I thought they were very supportive, really looked out for your best interests.
They had a lot of industry experience and so they were able to bring it that into the classroom.
In a lot of ways it guided my decision in terms of what sort of career and what sorts of things I wanted to do.
So I thought that was fantastic.
It was actually my third year when I started to panic about next steps because I came here as an international student.
So it was a case of "Do I go back to Nigeria to work?
Do I stay in England to work?" I applied for a few jobs and the support provided by the University was invaluable.
The career service, I thought they were absolutely brilliant and so I was able to secure a job at Lloyds Banking Group.
I did that for two years, and as I got to learn more about what I wanted to do long term, I thought investment banking was something best suited me well in terms of my personality and the technical skill set.
So I currently working in investment banking in London.
I would say the best thing about Portsmouth is the opportunities.
The opportunities provided by the University to go on a placement year and the support they provided for that.
To bringing people to talk about their careers and you get the opportunity to learn from them.
Honestly the parties were great as well at Portsmouth.
So the opportunity to go out to the pub and to the bars, which is also fantastic as well.
When when you build relationships at university, they're relationships that last a lifetime.
Overarchingly, I think the biggest thing to come out of Portsmouth for me is the relationships I built and just having friends I know I can rely on, I can lean on and we can always have a good time together.
So inevitably this had a massive, massive impact on me.
Our accommodation section show your accommodation options and highlight how much it costs to live in Portsmouth.
To start BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Accounting with Finance with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation:
This degree course will equip you with technical skills, artistic insight, and platform diversity for a successful career in 2D or 3D animation across various industries.
W615,                      W614
112-120 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent
Animation combines drawing, crafting, experimentation, filmmaking, and storytelling.
It gives artists many skills to tell powerful, personal stories.
On our Animation degree, you’ll learn the artistic insight, technical skills, and creative vision needed for animation.
You’ll step into a growing creative industry, which includes film and TV animation, motion graphics, and illustration.
Our degree covers both 2D and 3D filmmaking.
Work on various projects to learn about character animation and visual storytelling.
Then, you can explore production, compositing, and editing.
You’ll also learn from professionals from all walks of the animation industry.
Some have worked for Disney, Sony, and Cartoon Network.
Others have led visual effects for popular films like The Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter, and Chronicles of Narnia.
Animation is more than art and technology.
At Portsmouth, you’ll also think about how media affects society and the ethical side of animation.
10th
for animation and game design in the UK
Examples of some of the amazing final year project work from our recent animation students.
[Clips of our Animation student's work set to music]
All shortlisted applicants will need to provide a portfolio of work.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our Animation creative portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Animation with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Animation.
Design eye-catching illustrations, animations, and layouts in our 20-seat PC studio with industry-leading Wacom Cintiq widescreen graphics tablets.
Learn how to use the same professional motion capture equipment used in the VR, game design, and film industries.
The UK’s animation industry creates pioneering content and visual effects worldwide for commercials, websites, games, and interactive technologies.
Animations for events, concerts, theatre performances, and theme parks are also on the rise (Animation UK).
With the rapid development of future technologies such as virtual, mixed, and augmented reality, animation continues to be a growing sector of the global media and entertainment market.
Upon completing our Animation degree course, you can be part of this vital industry that transcends all sectors.
Our graduates have worked in a wide range of artistic roles, including:
Our graduates have worked at renowned companies such as:
Some of our alumni have worked on high-profile feature films and cartoons, including:
Get experience while you study , with support to find part-time jobs, volunteering opportunities, and work experience.
After your second or third year, you can complete an optional work placement to gain professional experience and enhance your skills.
It's also a great incentive for employers once you graduate.
You can work for a company, organisation or agency, or you can go self-employed and start your own business with fellow students or by yourself.
Whatever you decide – or even if you just want some employability advice – our Careers and Employability team can support you every step of the way.
Our dedicated Careers and Employability team have extensive recruitment experience across a multitude of areas including the creative sector.
They can provide you with supporting and advice, including:
The team will continue to support you throughout your placement year and beyond, providing you with help for up to 5 years after your graduate.
Students have completed work placements at Oscar and BAFTA winning companies such as:
If you're thinking of doing a placement but not sure what role to take or where to go, we can steer you in a direction that fits your aspirations.
Check out our Creative Careers team's blog to discover where fellow creative technologies students have interned during their studies.
Read our blog post
You'll focused on developing student ability to translate ideas to hand drawings and sketches as an important part of the design process.
Successful completion of this module indicates that you will  have obtained a good understanding of and ability to apply the requisite basic Design Concepts knowledge and skills.
Collect, assess and evaluate a variety of data required to undertake a design project.
Understand the structure of the design through transformation and convergent stages.
The principal phases from consideration of market need through specification, conceptual designs, feasibility, detail design to manufacture, modification, development, use and retirement.
Successful completion of this module indicates that students have obtained a good understanding of and ability to understand and rationalise aspects of emerging New Media; and indicates that students have obtained a good understanding of and ability to apply the requisite basic understanding and critical thinking skills to enable them to proceed to a range of programmes at the University.
You will be able to develop an initial focus on their chosen subject specialism via project outcomes and present their work in the form of a digital or on-line portfolio.
Successful completion of this module indicates that students have obtained improved skills of observation, research and analysis for project development, a good understanding of 'the creative journey' as equal to the importance of the 'final creative piece' and the ability to work to a project brief and indicates that students have obtained a good understanding of and ability to apply the requisite basic understanding and critical thinking skills to enable them to proceed to a range of programmes at the University.
Provide some exposure to live project opportunities in the local environment.
Students will be able to develop an initial focus on their chosen subject specialism via project outcomes and present their work in the form of a digital or on-line portfolio.
The module will give students the basic tools to conduct research using either qualitative or quantitative methodologies.
It will also enhance comprehension and interpretation of the mechanics of argumentation; the ability to effectively evaluate the rationale of argument and evidence to support claims; assess the credibility of sources made in claims; and formulate and deliver both verbally and in writing well-structured and critically reasoned arguments and opinions.
Master techniques like squash and stretch, arcs, and overlap action through practical exercises.
You’ll study iconic animations to understand timing, weight, and charm.
Get to know the professional methods for planning and testing your animations.
You’ll also get real experience using the software that industry pros use, bringing your own drawings to life, one frame at a time.
Create engaging animations like ball bounces, walking cycles, and various gestures.
With experience and a solid foundation in principles, you can create polished 2D animations.
Work through the pipeline — from research to modelling, texturing, rigging, animation, lighting, and rendering.
You’ll become adept at using top industry software.
As you build your technical skills, you’ll breathe life into unique characters and settings.
Create an engaging 3D animation short at the end, using professional techniques and workflows.
This module gives you a solid base across the key stages of 3D animation.
You’ll be set up for success by creating rich virtual worlds, characters, and stories.
Bring your creativity into an extra dimension.
In hands-on workshops, you’ll learn to observe and depict the human form, structure, proportion and movement.
Maintaining a sketchbook will help you critically reflect on interests and projects in progress.
You’ll practice recording colours, textures, and compositions from life to inform your creative visions.
This module will guide you in traditional and digital painting techniques, using colour and mark-making expressively.
Through this, you’ll gain skills in image manipulation and movement with 2D software.
At the end, you will have gained experience in using drawing, colour, and texture to explore ideas for characters, environments, and narratives.
Practise using industry-standard techniques and learn to create models for different production types.
By studying outstanding examples in the field, you’ll understand what’s expected in professional workflows, helping you to confidently meet creative briefs.
You’ll finish this module with enhanced technical skills and knowledge of the latest tools.
Get ready to take your models from the initial concept right through to their integration into the final scene.
You’ll dissect film structure and techniques and turn your ideas into dynamic storyboards and animatics.
We’ll teach you about composing scenes, editing, sound design, and timing, so you can apply these to make your narrative flow.
Practise explaining your ideas clearly and working with others as you would in a professional environment.
When you finish, you’ll have experience in scriptwriting and animating your creative vision.
Take advantage of this module to find your own style of storytelling and share stories that people everywhere will enjoy.
You’ll dive into the study of signs and symbols to understand how they create meaning.
By looking at different animations and films, you’ll examine stereotypes and how stories are told.
Discuss topics like cultural differences, identity, and how viewers see things.
Improve your ability to analyse by using key theories to understand creative works.
Expand your knowledge of animation across various styles and settings.
Get better at explaining your thoughts on how animation affects culture.
You’ll see how all these ideas apply to your own animation work.
By the end of this module, you’ll understand how to make animations that not only communicate clearly but also challenge people’s thinking and connect with audiences on a deeper level.
Working in a team, you'll research, develop, and present your own animations based on provided briefs.
This hands-on experience gives you a taste of how real animation studios operate, enhancing your understanding of the commercial production workflow.
Not only will you gain valuable animation research and practical 2D or 3D animation skills, but you'll also develop key collaborative and communication abilities.
By the end, you'll have produced an animation project and supporting materials that demonstrate your technical proficiency and ability to meet industry standards, making you career ready.
Building on your introductory experience, you'll work in teams on provided briefs, pushing your abilities in researching, developing, and presenting eye-catching animations.
You'll enhance your understanding of real-world animation workflows while gaining advanced technical proficiency in 2D or 3D animation.
This professional simulation will engage your creativity and curiosity as you employ a range of techniques to achieve industry-standard results.
Your final animation project and documentation will showcase your skills in managing collaborative production and meeting demanding deadlines.
By the end, you'll be ready to animate with confidence in a professional studio environment.
You’ll join lectures and seminars to talk about big ideas in animation’s development.
Learn to understand and analyse the way tech, art, industries, and cultures have influenced animation styles and stories over time.
You’ll do your own research to follow animation’s journey from its early days to today’s global digital scene.
Discuss important topics like diversity and representation by looking at key animations.
Get to know the worldwide growth of animation fans.
By getting a grip on animation’s history and now, you’ll be ready to explore new creative paths.
Enhance your ability to think critically and appreciate the pioneers who shaped animation as we know it today.
You will have the opportunity to look in narrative and visual development methods to enhance your skills during the pre-production phase of animation.
Get to grips with advanced techniques that big studios use, like how to show weight, build suspense, and add exaggerated motion.
Develop your ‘animator’s eye’ by analysing examples for timing, arcs, and appeal.
Practice workflows optimizing creativity and quality.
You’ll also create an amazing showreel showcasing your talents in animating unique characters full of life.
With professional skills for technique and performance, you’ll stand out in the competitive field of 2D animation.
As you progress, each frame you animate will let your creativity and imagination sparkle.
You’ll explore research methods to guide your creative decisions.
Learn industry workflows for rigging, blocking, and polishing animations.
Sharpen your eye by analysing examples for appeal and story clarity.
You’ll practice techniques from walks and runs to emotional expressions and lip sync.
You’ll also put together an impressive showreel showcasing your animation talents.
Plus, you’ll learn to critically assess your work, a key to continually improving your skills.
This module will teach you all the technical skills to create amazing 3D worlds and characters like a professional.
Let your vision and artistry shine frame by frame.
You’ll experiment with simulations and procedural methods to tackle typical production issues.
The aim of this will be to improve shot flow and deepen audience engagement.
You can study exemplary professional work by developing inventive approaches based on industry research.
This analysis will inform your technical choices as you skillfully blend various elements to create cohesive scenes.
It will help develop your practical knowledge and collaborative abilities to thrive in the film and games industries.
You’ll use drawing to capture animal forms, structure, texture, and proportions.
Relating visual research to the design process, you’ll develop industry-standard workflows, put your skills into practice through industry-led briefs and create professional-quality concepts and assets.
You can immerse yourself in the production pace and pipelines of entertainment studios through collaboration in a simulated studio environment.
You’ll finish this module with real-world creative experience and a portfolio of your design talents.
Join a team of creative students and do a project together.
Try new things and see how they can help you.
You’ll also grasp how to use your skills with others.
Sometimes you’ll be a leader, sometimes a helper.
Talk about your ideas and learn from them.
You’ll make something to show what you learned and share it with others.
This module helps you gain new skills and understand other fields.
You’ll be a smart and creative person, ready to solve real-world problems.
You’ll use virtual production tools to quickly create assets that meet professional benchmarks, ranging from creatures to environments.
This joint effort will involve elements of staging, cinematography, and VFX compositing, pushing you to intuitively combine these aspects within strict deadlines.
This module also introduces you to technologies that improve efficiency.
From this, you’ll gain a deeper industry understanding and enhance the quality of your project work.
Through a study exchange overseas, you'll manage tasks and projects relevant to your course, working independently or collaboratively as part of a team.
The experience enables you to showcase your talents on a global stage while reflecting on your personal growth.
With enhanced employability prospects, you return home with a new perspective to inform your practice.
It's an opportunity to design and produce your own animation-related artefact, honing professional skills in the field.
This module isn't just about creating animation; it's about immersing yourself in the entire process, from conception to final presentation.
You'll gain insight into various research sources, which is crucial for developing a well-rounded understanding of short animation production.
This includes the operational and technical aspects and the art of gathering and formulating ideas.
The emphasis is on organising and presenting these ideas professionally, utilising appropriate technology to bring your vision to life.
"Major Project: Part 1" is designed to set the stage for a deeper dive into animation, providing you with the skills and knowledge to create engaging and professional animated content.
Join seminars and talks to explore film form, narrative, the body, representation politics, and animated documentaries.
Pick a topic you’re excited about and write a detailed essay on one or two animations.
We’ll help you make solid academic points, using critical concepts from class and suggested materials.
You’ll learn how to use theories like psychoanalysis, Marxism, and feminism to deepen your analysis.
Use this chance to enhance your research, critical thinking, and writing skills while expressing your love for animation.
By the time you finish, you’ll have completed a substantial project that shows off your grasp of how animation works and what it means.
Come explore the vast and varied world of animation with us and leave with the analytical tools to talk about this vibrant art form.
We’ll guide you in creating a standout CV, portfolio, and showreel to catch the eye of industry professionals.
You’ll sharpen your online image and learn to network effectively to find jobs that excite you.
Our coaching will also prepare you to excel in interviews and presentations, giving you the confidence to stand out.
By the end of the module, you’ll have the belief in yourself, a clear plan, and the right tools to smoothly move into your ideal job in animation or to continue your studies.
This module is your stepping stone to join the new wave of creative talents in the industry.
Charting each step of the production process, you'll contextualise the decisions shaping your unique vision.
Through critical reflection informed by research, you'll gain deeper insight into your creative practice.
By culminating the skills nurtured throughout your degree, you'll breathe life into an animated film that showcases your abilities.
Let your imagination run wild and develop a personal project you can be proud of.
Through practical tasks and projects, you’ll master technical aspects — like timing, rhythm, weight, and motion — to make your drawings come alive.
Expert instructors will guide you in crafting a diverse collection of animations that showcase your talent in character animation, movement, and composition.
When you finish, your portfolio will display your abilities with professional 2D animation tools and processes.
You’ll have more faith in your skills as an animator ready for a creative career.
Through practical projects and exercises, you’ll learn advanced 3D animation techniques — like modelling, texturing, moving, and compositing — with industry software.
Skilled 3D animators will help you as you imagine and make high-quality 3D images and animations.
Use your creativity to solve design problems in a way that fits your unique animation style and strengths.
By the end, you’ll have a portfolio that displays your technical flair and artistic talent in 3D animation, ready for professional use.
This module gives you the skills you need to start your career as a 3D animation professional.
You’ll delve into the thrilling world of pre-production, from concept to final art.
Under expert guidance, experiment with techniques and mediums to create captivating characters, worlds, and stories that illustrate your own vision and strengths.
Analyse your methods and deeply assess your design choices to gain a deeper understanding of your creative identity.
By the end of this module, you’ll have a polished portfolio that showcases your artistic versatility and equips you with the knowledge to confidently plan future film projects.
Embrace your imagination and discover how to make your ideas come alive on the silver screen.
You’ll experiment with physics simulations and procedural methods to significantly improve shot flow and audience engagement.
As you tackle the usual production challenges, you’ll have the chance to study examples from the industry.
This research will help guide your artistic and technical choices.
Armed with a deeper industry understanding and digital expertise, you’ll be capable of seamlessly blending unique elements into coherent stories.
You’ll experiment with various digital design and compositing techniques, learning to blend elements seamlessly into scenes.
This will enhance how viewers perceive each scene, thanks to improved visual continuity.
You’ll also look at industry terminology to effectively discuss the aesthetic and procedural aspects of complicated projects.
This module offers thorough training for working in professional environments where creative problem-solving is key to producing visually convincing effects.
In this fascinating module, you’ll delve into this enthralling next-gen realm.
Explore the latest techniques for digitally capturing human motion and seamlessly applying it to 3D character animation.
Join us in our futuristic mocap studio and master the entire process — from capturing data to animating it using industry software.
Experts will guide you as you critically assess different technologies and develop skills to preserve the authenticity and nuance of performances.
By the end, you’ll have firsthand experience with this powerful storytelling tool, widely used to create captivating virtual characters in films, games, and beyond.
Your creativity will soar as you explore the boundless possibilities of bringing digital worlds to life.
During this module, you'll spend 6 months working on your own business venture, then 3 months gaining industry experience.
This opportunity allows you to apply what you've learned in a practical setting while exploring different career options.
You'll also have the chance to develop professional relationships and expand your network.
Assess your personal strengths and weaknesses to set goals for the future.
Throughout the module, you'll demonstrate increasing independence while still valuing the support of others.
Gain a broader understanding of the world through real-world experiences and insights.
Additionally, you'll earn valuable credits for your CV and enhance your skill set.
By the end of this module, you'll graduate with the practical experience that employers are seeking.
This experience lets you learn firsthand how to set up and run a small business.
You’ll absorb professional practices and business situations that matter to your entrepreneurial goals.
Make important connections while working independently within set rules.
Think deeply about your strengths, weaknesses, criteria for success, and future plans.
This opportunity is useful for your career.
It lets you use what you’ve learnt in your degree in the real world and helps you understand your capabilities.
After finishing this placement and the related assessments, you’ll get more credits for your sandwich degree.
This practical experience is a valuable step in developing an entrepreneurial way of thinking.
You’ll spend 24–48 weeks at a chosen company, learning from professionals and helping out with actual projects.
Gain confidence, knowledge, and skills by taking on more responsibility with gradually less help.
As you progress, you’ll make professional connections and think about how you’re doing.
Take in what you learn about how industries and businesses work.
This placement is an ideal chance to grow in your career.
By using what you’ve learnt in a workplace, you’ll understand more about your own strengths, what you need to work on, and your plans after you graduate.
After this placement and the related assessments, you’ll get extra credits for your sandwich degree.
This practical experience is a valuable part of your education.
Complete relevant tasks demonstrating your specialised skills and independence.
Gain global perspective, reflect deeply on personal growth, and build valued transferable abilities for professional life after university.
Return home with experiences that inspire your practice and understanding of art’s global connectivity.
Evaluating international contexts, you'll critically relate on-site activities to your disciplinary knowledge, gaining global insights.
Working independently overseas, you'll complete relevant assignments, refining skills transferable to future creative studies and practice.
Upon returning, thoughtful reflection will reveal your personal growth as you process new worldviews and cross-cultural competencies.
This invaluable opportunity provides a chance to broaden your creative knowledge while developing adaptability as a global citizen.
Teaching methods on this course includes:
There’s an emphasis on production processes such as computer animation, modelling, rigging and rendering.
Teaching staff include experienced experts who have worked for companies such as the BBC, Channel 4, Framestore, Sony Computer Entertainment, Disney, Warner Brothers, Weta and Double Negative.
For more about the teaching activities for specific modules, see the module list above.
These are some of the expert staff that will teach you on this degree course.
Mat.Garey@port.ac.uk
School of Film, Media, and Creative Technologies
Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries
Paul.Charisse@port.ac.uk
Colin.West@port.ac.uk
Teaching Fellow
Vincent.Woodcock@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Animation degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical classes and workshops for about 12 hours a week.
There’s usually no teaching on Wednesday afternoons.
You'll have regular contact with your personal tutor in learning activities or scheduled meetings.
You’ll need to cover additional costs, such as travel costs, if you take an optional placement or placement abroad.
These costs will vary depending on the location and duration of the placement, and can range from £50–£1000.
September 2026
To start BA (Hons) Animation in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Animation with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-business-and-human-resource-management:
Gain CIPD associate membership with this HR degree to kick off your career in human resource management, and get an understanding of how HR works with other business departments.
NN16,                      NN10
People are a vital business asset — and getting the human side of business right leads to a competitive advantage in industry.
This BA (Hons) Business and HRM degree prepares you for a successful career in human resources.
As a human resources manager you'll formulate policies that address modern workplace issues like flexible working, remote working and equality and diversity, and lead on strategies to recruit and retain the right workforce.
Human resource management covers the strategic approach to the employment, development and wellbeing of people in business.
On this degree you'll build your HRM knowledge and develop your understanding of human resources in the context of business, as well as discovering the core business disciplines that make organisations successful.
You’ll apply your learning through real-world scenarios and learning projects, with opportunities including paid industry placements throughout your studies.
If you take on a Business Consultancy Project you'll work on a live client project with a local business in your final year.
By taking an industry placement year before or after your third year, you’ll graduate with a year of experience in the workplace as well as your degree.
Our Placements team will support you during your placement search and while you’re on placement.
You'll graduate from this course with a head start in the job market, and be able to apply for Associate Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) — something that is often only available after postgraduate study.
HRD Connect research
93%
overall student satisfaction for our BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management
(NSS, 2022)
This course is aligned with the standards laid out in the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) curriculum.
With over 300,000 HR and business executive members spanning 165 countries, SHRM is the largest human resource management association on the planet.
This recognition confirms the high level of HR education we uphold, and our role as a springboard for exceptional human resource professionals.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
On successful completion, providing students are in active CIPD membership, students will automatically gain Associate membership of the CIPD.
They will then be able to use the designatory letters Assoc CIPD.
In addition to the above, we have partnered with the CMI so that you can gain a value added professional qualification alongside your degree.
Students on our BA Business and Human Resource Management course can be awarded a CMI Level 5 Certificate in Management and Leadership upon successful completion of their degree programme.
Upon joining their degree course, students become members of the CMI and are able to access a range of benefits, resources and events to support their professional development.
My course was CIPD accredited which was a real selling point.
My course helped to provide me with the foundation knowledge of this and showed me different areas within my profession which I will plan my career around.
Sarah Crowder-Johnson, BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management, 2019
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management.
Do you enjoy working with and talking to people?
We're looking for students who are interested in people and are intellectually curious and enthusiastic.
You'll need good teamwork and time management skills to succeed on this course as well as good presentation skills - but don't worry as we'll help you develop all these skills throughout the course.
It's always good to have some work experience or volunteering experience you can talk about, but mostly we're interested to hear what motivates you to do this course.
As a human resource manager you can work in any sector that you're passionate about, whether that's sport, charities, manufacturing, or maybe the arts; all sorts of different businesses need effective workforce management.
It's also a role that could take you overseas.
Best of all is that this qualification opens up many possible career routes.
You might want to specialise in workplace training and development, become an expert in employment law, or lead on business development.
As you progress you'll be able to map a career to your interests.
Your CIPD accreditation means you're likely to earn more money and have more job options than your non-accredited peers ( Reed UK ).
CIPD Associate membership is highly-valued by employers and it therefore provides a valuable employability advantage when looking for your first job.
Please note membership is subject to the payment of a membership fee.
(Data sourced from HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey.)
You can boost your employability by taking an optional paid placement after your second or third year of study.
Previous students on this course have had placements in organisations such as:
Sarah graduated in 2019 with a degree in BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management.
She is now Transformation Workstream Lead at the Cabinet Office.
Discover how Sarah benefited from a placement year at IBM and how she’s applying the skills she learned during her time at Portsmouth.
Before I started uni I didn't really know what I wanted to do.
When I was speaking to people when I was applying for uni, they were like actually you're really good with people, have you thought about HR?
I wanted to do something that I was passionate about, and I thought I am passionate about working with people, and I'm going to enjoy it.
During my time at University I did a placement year at IBM.
It was putting what I'd learned into practice, and actually made it kind of make sense.
That was my light bulb moment where I was like, this is the career for me.
The biggest impact the University of Portsmouth has had on me is personal growth in myself.
I learned so much while I was there.
I did access the Careers and Employability Service.
They helped me to look at CVs and interviews, they're so helpful and so beneficial.
Once I graduated I got a job on the Civil Service File Streams — it's the Times number one graduate program.
I'm actually working on reforming The Graduate scheme I'm on.
What I'm doing, I feel like it really does make a difference.
And being in the cabinet office is the centre of government so it does have that wider impact.
The advice I give people at the start of their career if they're not really sure what they want to do, is just see what you're passionate about, see what you enjoy doing — it can really take you anywhere.
It's quite amazing, sometimes I have to pinch myself.
I'm here doing this and I've come a long way.
The University of Portsmouth really has kind of changed my life.
Daisy worked as a Human Resources Intern at Porsche Cars during her placement year.
Read about her experience.
7 March 2024
Hear from BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management student Sarah, as she shares her experience on a placement year with Siemens Mobility.
6 February 2024
We have over 20 experienced business entrepreneurs on our free EiR programme who can help you develop your business idea.
"I have a business idea, but I was not too sure about it.
After this meeting, I felt so encouraged and positive about it!
I felt so motivated to pursue my business venture.
He gave me real life advice and helped me how to approach my ideas."
Rabab El Habchi Mahir meeting EiR Mark Smith
Between your second and third year, you can choose to study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, Asia, Australia or North America.
"Students that go abroad are more likely to obtain first-class honours [and] more likely to be in graduate employment than their non-mobile peers."
Through lectures, seminars, and hands-on computer labs, you'll analyse data and interpret results with tools such as Excel.
By the end of this module you'll be able to demonstrate descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics and communicate insights to various audiences.
This practical experience equips you with valuable analytics and communication abilities that are sought-after in the world of business.
The Module makes use of case examples to review applicable theory and frameworks to illustrate the combined roles of Continuous Improvement (CI), Organisational Learning (OL), Change Management, and the importance of a Creative Environment (CE) as a springboard for innovation.
This module will develop your knowledge and understanding in the application of ideas, methodologies, processes, and techniques for improving and sustaining organisational performance.
The module emphasises the operationalising of business and functional strategy and focuses on how to facilitate and sustain successful change.
The module evaluates the cultural, behavioural and human elements, and considers the role people have in leading and being part of successful and sustainable improvement.
Portsmouth Business School is ranked 3rd in the UK for teaching power .
You'll be taught by a dedicated team of specialist staff that includes a great mix of research expertise and industry experience.
These are some of the expert staff who will teach you on this course:
Martin.Brock@port.ac.uk
Portsmouth Business School
Le.Bo@port.ac.uk
My favourite thing about my degree is my course leaders.....They make the university experience at Portsmouth an absolute joy to be a part of as well as offering me fantastic chances across my 3 years to develop myself and my HR abilities!
Harry Stotter-Brooks, BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management
In your first year this is what your week may look like:
You'll have regular scheduled meetings with your personal tutor.
They're also available by appointment if you want to chat with them about anything that can't wait until your next meeting.
You’ll study up to 6 units a year.
You may have to read several recommended books or textbooks for each unit.
To start BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
See the 'How to apply' section above for details of how to apply.
You can also get an agent to help with your application.
To find out what to include in your application, head to the how to apply page of our international students section.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-business-and-management:
Explore all areas of business and management in this flexible degree with optional placements and study abroad.
Tailor your degree to the specialisms that interest you as you gain broad skills in sustainable, ethical and global management that you can apply to any sector.
NN21,                      NN20
Stand out in the job market with a BA (Hons) Business and Management degree that gives you the skills and knowledge you need to excel in today’s evolving global business landscape, as well as a professional qualification from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Starting with a detailed core curriculum including marketing, finance, managing people and operations, this degree gives you strong foundations on which to build your business knowledge.
After your first year you’ll decide which direction to take your degree.
You'll tailor your learning by choosing modules that develop knowledge in a specialism that employers are looking for — with options including enterprise, business intelligence, operational excellence, financial management, commercial transformation, and managing people.
You'll build your professional skills as you learn by working on live client projects and real industry problem-solving tasks throughout your course.
You’ll have support in every step of your journey with initiatives such as our mentoring scheme with industry professionals, and grow your confidence with client work and optional industry placements — including a paid placement year — so you’ll graduate ready to make an immediate impact in the workplace.
With opportunities to hear from industry guest speakers, join networking events, and take part in our 'Big Business Convo' topical discussions, you'll set yourself up for success in your career every step of the way.
With a wide range of optional modules to choose from, you can tailor this degree to your interests.
Module options cover a wide range of subjects, from new product development, to event planning, to public sector economics.
One thing I have liked about studying at the Faculty of Business and Law is the great amount of support I have received, from study support to placement search.
I feel strongly supported at every stage of my degree.
Dione Vengai, final year student, BA (Hons) Business and Management
We have partnered with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) so that you can gain a value added professional qualification alongside your degree.
Students on our BA (Hons) Business and Management can be awarded a CMI Level 5 Certificate in Management and Leadership upon successful completion of their degree programme.
Hannah graduated in 2019 with BA (Hons) Business and Management, and is now HR Business Partner with telecommunications giant BT.
Hannah discusses her placement year at BT group and how she's applying the skills learned during her time at Portsmouth.
Hannah: My name is Hannah Ensley and I'm a HR business partner at BT.
I studied business management at the University of Portsmouth.
Uni was a journey of Discovery for me.
I think it made me more confident because it pushed me out of my comfort zone.
I chose to study at the University of Portsmouth because of multiple reasons — one of them was the location.
I loved the fact of being in a city but also near the beach.
I also was sold on the course.
When I went there for my open day I really enjoyed how they presented the course it really resonated with me and I was excited to join.
My light bulb moment was probably in my second year when I focused a bit closer to HR.
I was excited to get my essays done, I was interested in learning about the different topics it was just very different to what I'd ever done before, touching on the different theories and the different Behavioural Sciences, understanding well-being and diversity and mental health.
I chose to do a placement year at BT and I focused on HR and corporate affairs, and it taught me so much, gave me so many transferable skills and opened my eyes to the business world.
Since graduating from the University of Portsmouth I have been working for BT.
I love the variety of being a HR business partner but I love being close to the business, helping the team be the best they can be, helping to instil a great culture.
I think my passion is people.
What drives my passion is being able to help people bring their best selves to work.
It's all about empowering other people to be able to deliver and be the best person that they can.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Business and Management with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Business and Management.
In addition to meeting the course's entry requirements, we’re looking for good written, IT and analytical skills.
During this course your assessment will include problem-solving, good presentation techniques and the ability to work well in a team.
But don’t worry, we’ll help you develop these abilities throughout the course.
We’re looking for an interest in business and management, so we’d encourage you to read the business sections of a quality newspaper and get some work experience (of any kind).
Amanda Nye, BA Hons Business and Management
Depending on the modules you choose to study in your second and third years, you could develop specialism knowledge within the context of your generalist business degree, setting you up for careers across the business industry.
This degree also offers options to improve your business research skills.
You could go on to do a postgraduate qualification in a business-related area such as project management, digital marketing or human resource management.
You could also choose to set up your own business with our support.
Read our blog to find out why a business management degree is a good idea and how it opens doors to lots of different careers.
Read the blog
I worked within a small team to review and contact clients.
I felt really proud to have so much responsibility within this team, it gave me a massive boost of confidence in my abilities.
Daniela Faulkner, BA (Hons) Business and Management
You could also set up your own business , or take a voluntary placement .
Find out more about James' experience at University of Portsmouth, and where he hopes his BA (Hons) Business and Management will take him.
The course looked fantastic and when coming here for one of the open days the lecturers really sold it to me.
I could actually see myself being part of the Portsmouth community.
I was on placement last year at Bosch near London where I was working with in the marketing department and specifically trade marketing, dealing with the automotive parts for cars, lorries and motorcycles.
I look to start my own company in the future.
From your first day at university, you will begin developing key academic, professional, and employability skills, preparing you for leadership roles in the business world.
Using real-life case studies and practical experiences, you will explore how different business functions operate and integrate within organisations.
The focus will be on applying these insights to build your management capabilities and enhance your readiness for future career opportunities.
Digital Commerce is a rapidly growing field, especially with the prevalence of mobile devices.
It is essential for national economies, businesses, and consumers.
This module is designed to familiarise students with the essential infrastructure, technologies, models, tools, and platforms that underpin digital commerce.
You'll also develop the practical skills necessary to develop, promote and manage commercial websites.
This module mirrors Financial Management delivered at the University of Portsmouth but is contextualised for Singapore law and GAAP.
Data visualisation and storytelling are techniques that work together to help people understand and engage with complex data.
Data visualisation is a visual representation of data that helps people understand it by highlighting trends and outliers.
It's key in helping audiences process information, build trust, and connect with the data emotionally.
Data storytelling is the art of using data to create a compelling narrative that informs, inspires, and persuades and involves breaking down raw data and incorporating narrative elements.
This module will explore the steps necessary to select an appropriate visualisation while considering the data, audience, and objective, and apply Tufte's fundamental design principles to declutter charts and focus attention.
Students will learn how to use data visualisation software to create interactive reports and data dashboards.
Finally, techniques for effectively and engagingly communicating the key messages derived from data will be studied.
The module will seek to outline a range of business modelling techniques that allow for improved operational designs under conditions that usually require the allocation of scarce resources using case studies.
Digital agility is a key concept for organisations that are undergoing digital transformation.
By becoming more digitally agile, organisations improve their adaptability in every area of business, from being able to quickly launch new services to customers, to easily deploying new tools to their hybrid workforce.
With customer expectations for digital services soaring, businesses need to provide engaging digital experiences to retain existing customers and attract new ones.
The module uses case studies to examine the technological drivers of change, the impact of entrenched company culture, and the role of an influential 'Change Agent' in ensuring project success.
It also introduces you to the processes involved in running a digital transformation project, as well as systems thinking and creativity techniques and provides best practice case studies related to business process improvement.
You'll choose a dissertation or work-based project, and study either Critical Leadership: Theory and Practice, or the Business Consultancy Project.
Designed to provide a more practical alternative to the traditional dissertation, you'll select a company facing a contemporary managerial, strategic, or international business issue.
Through in-depth analysis of both the company's internal operations and external environment (using secondary sources), students will craft meaningful, actionable recommendations to help tackle these issues.
Through the use of secondary data from multiple sources and existing databases, you'll apply critical thinking to address the challenges they uncover.
Ultimately, this module will empower you to become a problem-solver and serve as effective preparation for their future careers, equipping you with the practical skills and mindset needed to confidently tackle real-world business challenges they will encounter after graduation.
Without the Marketing, Sales and Advertising units that I undertook at the University, I do not believe I would be on my current career path.
I was able to discover the world of business-to-business marketing and understand why my skills were suited to this route.
I got to attend my sessions with some extremely incredible speakers.
Isabel George, BA (Hons) Business and Management 2017 graduate, Marketing Executive at Survitec Group Ltd.
How you're assessed will depend on the modules you choose.
To start BA (Hons) Business and Management in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Business and Management with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-childhood-and-youth-studies:
Get ready to change the lives of children, young people and their families.
With opportunities to take on multiple placements, you’ll create your own ePortfolio: a personalised website featuring examples of your work and reflections on your practice.
L590,                      L591
104-112 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent
Learn the skills and get the workplace experience to support children and young people with equality at the heart of your practice on this Childhood and Youth studies degree.
You'll discover how factors such as the education system, youth culture and social media affect children's development.
You’ll also have the chance to explore optional topics such as outdoor education, safeguarding and the role of play in a child’s development, and to focus your studies on a particular specialism - education and teaching, community and youth/family provision, or leadership and enterprise.
Develop the knowledge and skills to support children with special educational needs (SEN) and those from a care background, making sure no child misses out on the educational and development opportunities available to them.
After the course, you’ll be set for a career supporting children and their families in areas such as youth work, social care and education.
100%
of students said teaching staff were very good or good at explaining things
(NSS 2023)
You can choose modules that lead to the exit award BA Childhood and Youth Studies with Social Pedagogy.
This pathway is endorsed by the Social Pedagogy Professional Association (SPPA), which means you can graduate as a "Social Pedagogy Practitioner".
This demonstrates that you meet the SPPA's Standards of Proficiency, which are central to developing relationship-centred, dialogic practice that supports children and young people, particularly those who are vulnerable or disadvantaged.
Want to work with children?
Discover the jobs you could gain with a degree in childhood studies.
Jodie Pinnell
We get students that come to us and say, I really want to work with children.
I want to help.
I want to make a difference.
It's our job to say, here's all the wonderful things that you can do with children.
At the University of Portsmouth, we have a number of undergraduate Childhood Studies degrees.
We have Early Childhood Studies and Childhood and Youth Studies either as a single honours course or with the option to have a combined honours with criminology or with psychology.
Cathryn Barty
This course has three specialisms.
They are education and teaching, community and youth/family liaison and leadership and enterprise.
The three are embedded throughout the course over three years.
It helps you to decide which path you want to pursue after you finish your degree.
Anya Manley
The route that I decided to choose was the education and teaching because I have a passion to be a primary school teacher.
Adam Denman
I wanted to take my career further.
I was recommended to go on to the Enterprise course, linked at the University of Portsmouth, in addition to my studies.
I managed to participate in masterclasses from external speakers and entrepreneurs in residence, that supported me in setting up my own social enterprise in music education.
The career options you can do with this course are unlimited, there's so many.
Victoria Blay
One of them is teaching.
Whether that be primary teaching, early years in a nursery, secondary school.
Others work within further education through local colleges.
Some of them work within the NHS.
There's the prison service, the police service.
But obviously through university you understand what your passions are.
A huge part of their professional practice module is they'll go out and they'll do their placement for a day a week, or they would have done a big extended placement over their summer break.
I did two placements.
One was within a private prep school and then I worked in another school, which was an alternative provision school.
It was really, really enjoyable.
It was taking some of what I learnt at uni and putting it into practice and reflecting on that as well.
Ellen Braddick
I think having the placements reassured me that this is something that I definitely want to do.
It really helped me a lot to get to the place I am now.
As part of that, they all inform each other's ideas and co-reflect on their positionality.
I can come into this setting and I can make a difference.
What I loved most about the course was the support I received from the lecturers.
They've had a variety of different backgrounds within their careers.
They also have a wide range of contacts within the industry and with local schools and colleges in the Portsmouth region.
Portsmouth is a good city, you've got a beach five minutes away from the centre of the campus.
You've got shops nearby, you've got restaurants.
It's a good place to come and study whether you like the culture or just somewhere quiet to sit and just take in the world.
Applicants must pass Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) before starting their professional placement working with children and young people.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies.
Please note this foundation year with ICP isn’t currently open to EU or International students.
When I was looking through the University of Portsmouth website, there were some lecturers in particular that had really done some amazing work with disadvantaged youths.
Within my first year I'd already done two voluntary placements.
Phoebe Dolby, BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies graduate
Our Teacher Education Centre is a fun, bright and inspiring immersive learning space where you'll develop the practical learning experiences you need for careers working with children.
You'll find a suite of enabling environments where children are encouraged to feel safe, calm and inspired to play, learn and explore.
Explore the centre
There will always be a demand for skilled and knowledgeable professionals to work with children and young people.
As well as specialist expertise, this course helps you develop transferable skills valued by all kinds of employers, such as:
After the course, you could work in areas such as:
Roles our graduates have taken on include:
A global survey of 1000 business leaders by the Harvard Business Review [...] found that the skills most in-demand by employers are those in which Social Sciences, Humanities and the Arts graduates specialise – from communication, problem solving and creativity, to research and analysis.
Ian Diamond, The British Academy
Phoebe Dolby graduated in 2018 with a BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies degree from the University of Portsmouth.
She is now a Local Authority Education Link Coordinator for the Central Locality in Portsmouth.
Find out what Phoebe’s role entails and how she’s applying the skills she learned during her time with us.
Phoebe: My name is Phoebe Dolby and I am the Local Authority Education Link Coordinator for the central locality in Portsmouth.
We work to track vulnerable children within Portsmouth and helping those children by ensuring that schools and other services are keeping them safe.
I knew that I wanted to go to university and when I was looking through the University of Portsmouth website, there were some lecturers in particular that had really done some amazing work with disadvantaged youths.
When I was at university, within my first year I'd already done two voluntary placements.
Second year I was course rep and started working the open days so I really just immersed myself in the experience and I think that's why I ended up doing so well at the end.
It really pushed me to know that I definitely wanted to work with kids within school who were finding it challenging.
I went to a local school in Portsmouth.
I wasn't particularly engaged with education until my final year, where I fell pregnant with my son, who's now 13.
College or further education, I've never really thought about that, but as my son got older I realised that I wanted to support young people and maybe offer that person to talk to that I maybe didn't have, which would have made such a massive difference.
What makes me proud is seeing kids go from right down there to leaving school with four GCSEs and actually feeling super happy.
To anyone that would be thinking about going to university, I would say one hundred percent do it.
Even if you feel like you might not be able to or you doubt maybe your academic ability, there's all the support available.
If someone like me can go and do it, then anybody can do it.
In addition to your compulsory placements during year two, you can also choose to do a paid work placement year after your second or third year.
This lets you put your new skills to work while developing valuable links with employers.
However long you do a placement for, it’s fantastic for your CV and will really help you stand out when applying for jobs after graduation.
Mentoring and support throughout your placement will help you to get the most from the experience.
You could also choose to set up your own business , or take a voluntary placement.
We’ll help you secure a work placement that fits your aspirations.
We have strong links with a wide variety of placement providers including colleges, schools, other educational institutions, and charities in the UK and abroad.
Previous students have secured placement positions at organisations such as:
You can choose to use your placement year to extend your studies abroad.
We have close links with universities in countries such as:
You'll develop academic writing skills and critically analyse texts and images.
Present your analysis to deepen self-awareness and understand diverse perspectives in a global context.
The module will explore the judiciary and other legal practitioners, including judgments, law reporting, and sentencing, as well as barristers and solicitors.
You'll gain an understanding of local courts such as magistrates, county, and crown courts, and delve into legal research techniques focusing on the language and discourse of statute and common law.
You'll appreciate how these fields intersect and impact each other, gaining insights into the connections between people, their environment, and societal practices.
Additionally, you'll be introduced to technological innovations and examine how they are applied in society from a sociological perspective.
You'll develop a core understanding of politics and international relations.
This module will help you appreciate the inter-disciplinary connection between people and their environment.
It also develops an understanding of how people, politics, and place are interconnected, including an introduction to criminology and the sociological analysis of urban crime.
You'll demonstrate your understanding of key legal knowledge and skills by successfully completing this module, preparing you for further study and application in the field of law.
This module equips you with the tools to conduct qualitative and quantitative research, evaluate arguments and evidence, assess source credibility, and present well-structured, reasoned arguments both verbally and in writing.
You'll explore key theories and research on the ways children and young people develop, including physical, cognitive, social and emotional growth.
By the end of the module, you'll have a better understanding of how to support children's wellbeing and development.
On this module, you’ll explores a myriad of educational contexts including education's development over time, different types of educational establishments in both the private and public sectors, how children learn, the curriculum and assessment, adult, higher, special, alternative and community education and inequalities in education.
You’ll get an overview of British education from earliest time to the present day, comparing this to education in other parts of the world over time.
You’ll identify social issues and build your own understanding of rights and responsibilities, focusing on moral, legal, political rights, freedoms and equalities.
Relating this back to your degree, you’ll explore how to navigate the professional fields you’re likely to enter after graduation, within the areas of social pedagogy, early childhood and youth studies.
You’ll develop skills in independent thinking, teamwork, problem-solving and project work, and get to grips with academic writing, referencing procedures, and the use of technology to enhance your skills.
You’ll also begin developing your ePortfolio, a personal collection documenting your learning journey.
You'll develop essential skills like problem-solving, collaboration, and communication.
You will also identify global challenges by exploring issues from multiple perspectives, and apply fundamental research skills to gather and evaluate relevant real-world problems.
You’ll look at the factors that shape childhood and the challenges children face, including the development, differences and successes of different education systems and the impact that has on children, teachers, and communities.
You’ll explore the relationships between education and social understandings with a specific focus on identities, inequality, and constructions of childhood.
By the end of the module, you’ll have developed a critical understanding of the complexities that shape childhood around the world.
You’ll complete your practical placement in an educational or community setting serving children and youth, shadowing experienced professionals to help address learner needs across academic, social-emotional and behavioural domains.
You'll gain essential employability skills demanded by the industry, enabling you to explore theoretical concepts related to professional practice in the context of children and young people.
You'll also reflect on your own practice to understand personal, ethical and professional behaviour, and how you collaborate with other professionals.
Using existing studies as an example, you'll examine the key issues to think about, such as ethics, protection of the children involved, and data protection.
You'll learn how to carry out ethical, meaningful research with children and young people, including quantitative and qualitative research methods that put children first, from observation and focus groups to surveys.
You'll think about how to choose a research area to investigate, and how to design and carry out a research project with children and young people – essential skills that will help you prepare for your dissertation.
You’ll take a historical perspective to compare and contrast various strategies used in different historical and social circumstances.
You’ll examine the role of young people in social change and the extent to which we should become involved in supporting young people in this role.
You’ll also look at a variety of forms of activism, including how we can work within organisations to ensure they remain relevant to young people's needs.
On this module, you'll explore the magical world of children's literature, analysing storytelling techniques and illustrations, moral themes and literary devices.
You’ll look at stories for children of all ages, ranging from picture books to young adult (YA) novels.
You'll think not only about the key ideas and concepts that have been published around children's literature, but the role of the child reader too – how they respond to books they read and find meaning within them.
As well as writing and discussion, you'll express your learning through creative activities like art and roleplay.
On this module, you'll explore the vital role of play in the lives of babies and children up to the age of 12, examining theoretical perspectives and research on the subject.
You'll discover how a child’s age and their individual needs shape the kind of play they engage in.
You'll learn how important it is that adults working with children support and join in with them in play, and how to design enriching play environments.
You'll finish the module understanding the cognitive, social and emotional benefits of play, ready to nurture children's growth through purposeful play experiences.
You’ll delve into the interplay of technology, media, peer networks, subcultures and counterculture movements in shaping youth identity expression, from music to activism and more.
You’ll explore pressing issues facing today’s youth, and evaluate innovative youth work initiatives supporting young people’s wellbeing and development.
Deep dive into critical matters like bullying, inclusion and resilience.
You'll get insight into Transition Theory and how social factors form perspectives, and have the chance to direct your own learning, with a choice of essay topics and the opportunity to engage in dialogues with special guests.
This combo of theory and personal focus builds essential knowledge of the forces forming children's social development
You'll examine key theories and research methodologies for understanding personal life, relationships, sexuality and generational change.
You'll have the opportunity to pursue topics matching your interests, whether that's shifts in dating cultures, new family forms, LGBTQ identities, or issues like consent, respect and ethics.
The module develops critical thinking skills by evaluating different frameworks and perspectives on contemporary intimacy and relationships.
There is an emphasis on inclusivity, diversity, and social justice throughout.
In this module, you’ll explore European colonisation of Africa, asking questions like - how did they justify colonial rule, and how did African peoples respond to these colonisers?
You’ll learn how, after World War II, colonial rule was increasingly challenged from both within the empire, by growing African demands for political rights, and in the international arena, with the global trend towards trusteeship, development and self-determination.
You’ll also explore European relations with Africa in the post-colonial era, looking at themes which may include ideas about civilisation, universalism and race, modern attempts to 'rehabilitate' empire in the media, and the legacies of colonialism in Britain, Europe and Africa.
You'll learn how to think critically about the key concepts that link language, culture and communication, considering the benefits and limitations of these ideas.
You'll explore the different ways in which communication intersects with culture across themes such as identity, education, gender, and the media.
Alongside what you learn, you'll improve your skills in analysis, research and intercultural awareness.
You'll learn about consumer behaviour and brand strategy, and spend time examining real-world marketing campaigns.
You'll also think about how social, political and technological forces can affect the way businesses approach marketing their products and services.
Skills you'll develop include carrying out market research and learning how to use what you learn, crafting targeted messaging across different marketing channels, and presenting your ideas verbally and in writing.
You'll learn about major economic, political and cultural changes in Western Europe over the nineteenth century, and how these affected the rest of the world as time went on.
You'll explore the big ideas that have shaped the modern world, and weigh up the benefits and perils of globalisation.
Skills you'll develop on this module include independent research, critical thinking and effective communication.
You'll also learn to understand the opportunities and challenges of today's world from an informed, global perspective.
You’ll unpack the language of tabloids, broadsheets and online news, analysing how journalists shape public understanding of current events.
Develop your critical thinking by confronting moral panics and polarised politics in reporting.
Create your own news stories and gain real insight into mass communication in a rapidly changing landscape.
You’ll analyse American texts against the backdrop of intellectual, social and political change, evaluating how writers grappled with emerging ideas around national identity, race, gender and more.
By honing skills for contextual analysis and independent thought, you’ll form your own interpretations of iconic works that reflect the American experience.
You’ll analyse diverse transitional justice approaches balancing community healing and judicial accountability after mass atrocities.
Comparing mechanisms like war crimes tribunals, truth commissions and reparations programmes, you’ll evaluate effectiveness in restoring dignity and preventing recurrence.
With case studies from Europe to Africa, from Latin America to Asia, you'll examine tensions between western models and local cultural perspectives, assessing what ‘justice’ means to vulnerable peoples.
Throughout, you'll trace incremental human rights legislation advances, assessing global institutions’ roles protecting civilians from authoritarian regimes and wartime abuses.
You'll examine the key theories and ideas behind helping children who develop challenging behaviours, and learn how to weigh up and deal with complex situations effectively and compassionately.
You'll also think about the possible causes behind children's challenging behaviour, and how understanding these causes can help us better support children and help them thrive.
You'll evaluate contemporary support themes, analyse young people's relationships, and learn how theory relates to practical social work.
This module prepares you for the complexity of helping young people with more advanced needs.
You’ll conduct independent research, define a research question, and use methods like Participatory Action Research (PAR) for collaborative, impactful study.
You'll have the opportunity to gather data through fieldwork, either with children, young people or practitioners, depending on their research question and the scope of your study.
This real-world, project-based module lets you address an identified need or gap by designing an innovative product, service or resource.
With support from university staff and external partners, you'll demonstrate critical thinking, ethical awareness and project management abilities.
Your final project and presentation will showcase your employability and capacity for high-impact solutions.
You’ll focus on the role of the environment and adults, assessing how these factors support young learners to become confident and capable.
You’ll reflect on the impact of your previous experiences and how they have shaped personal values and beliefs, recognising how these can shape your practice.
You’ll evaluate how personal experiences shape your values and biases within professional educational roles.
You’ll reflect on your emerging role as a leader and manager and think about the forms these may take in your future career, making sure you’re ready for leadership and management when working in people centred environments.
You’ll reflect on your experiences in the outdoors and how these experiences shape our approaches to education.
You’ll learn how to carry out effective risk benefit analyses and how to frame your approach to risk as enabling children, young people and adults.
You’ll also take part in debate about the ecological challenges facing us and how we might shape educational practice and policy as a step to action.
With a minimum 80-hour commitment, you'll apply what you've learned so far on your degree to real-world professional settings within our community of local businesses, social enterprises, and third-sector organisations.
You'll have support from interactive workshops, tutorials, and guest speaker events, encouraging you to set achievable professional goals and evolve your professional identity.
They may appear isolated, anxious and fearful, or they may seem unhappy or disturbed.
As part of this module, you’ll look at the characteristics of these problems, as well as some of the explanations that have been offered about how these problems arise.
We will also be discussing ways in which we can support children and young people facing mental health difficulties across a variety of settings.
You'll gain insight into current care policies and trauma theories while evaluating approaches that are most successful for meeting the needs of children in care.
With compassion and understanding, you can help create the nurturing environments these children need to heal and thrive.
You will explore the affective power of language and illustration in and around children's stories and its potential messages for the child.
The module also crucially explores the role of the child reader, mapping their meaning making and responses to text and image in picturebooks and other children's literature.
You’ll analyse the role of the adult in understanding a child's experiences through a therapeutic perspective of play.
You’ll connect theory and observations to practice to understand your role in recognising when a child might need further support from a qualified play therapist.
As part of this, we’ll look at a range of focused interventions which benefit children.
You’ll demonstrate intellectual and transferable skills appropriate for your field, and do independent research.
You’ll design a viable project proposal using existing studies in your field, and critically discuss assumptions, arguments and data to make judgements, pose questions and identify solutions.
Finally, you'll write up your project tailored to a specified academic or workplace audience.
For any queries or questions outside scheduled teaching, you can reach teaching staff by email and get a timely response.
Most also allow you to drop by their office at set times of the week or by arrangement.
Education and Childhood Subject Area Leader
Jodie.Pinnell@port.ac.uk
Simon.Edwards@port.ac.uk
School of Education, Languages and Linguistics
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
The way you’re assessed may depend on the units you select.
As a guide, students on this course last year were typically assessed as follows:
Your coursework may include:
We review assessment methods regularly to make sure the way you’re assessed aligns with the latest educational policies and initiatives.
We also put emphasis on allowing you to develop transferable and creative skills through assessment, which you can use in your career – for example by developing your own website or producing a video.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 11 hours a week.
There may be occasional trips for which you will be asked to contribute £25 a trip.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies course in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-childhood-and-youth-studies-with-criminology:
Explore child development and the issues affecting young people, the role of the criminal justice system and the causes of crime on this course, ideal for a career in youth intervention or youth justice.
L5L3,                      L5L4
Our experiences in childhood and adolescence can have a huge influence on the choices we make and how society sees us.
On this Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology degree, you'll explore the issues affecting children and young people aged 8–18, and the role of the criminal justice system and the causes of crime – as well as how these subject areas interconnect.
Learning from academic researchers and staff with experience as practitioners in the field, you'll focus on child development, children's learning and relationships, and delve into the complex policies, practices and societal pressures that impact them.
You'll also have the chance to focus your childhood and youth studies on a particular specialism - education and teaching, community and youth/family provision, or leadership and enterprise.
After the course, you'll graduate with the skills and knowledge for a rewarding career working with children and young people in a variety of settings, including youth intervention, youth justice and social work.
This course gives students a specialist perspective when looking at the knowledge and skills associated with working with children and young people.
Combining two subject areas offers the opportunity to build valuable transferable skills and enjoy a degree from a wide range of lecturer's professional expertise.
Jodie Pinnell, Course Leader, BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology.
Our Teacher Education Centre is a fun, bright and inspiring immersive learning space where you can develop the practical learning experiences for a career working with children.
Use the latest forensic advances and immersive learning technologies, including virtual reality, to delve into crime scene investigation in our realistic simulation areas.
Understanding child development and the factors that shape the early years helps us support young people as they move through life, especially at times of difficulty.
With its two distinct yet interrelated subject areas, this Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology degree will prepare you for a range of careers working on behalf of children and young people.
You'll graduate with the knowledge and insight to advocate for young people's futures in relation to the challenges they face, including those connected to crime and the law.
There's significant demand for graduates who have the expert skills and knowledge to work with young people and children in the community in this way, particularly since the pandemic and its impact on education.
You'll also gain valuable transferable skills, including leadership, people management and contextual communication.
After your second or third year, you can do a paid placement in a youth work setting.
You'll have the opportunity to make a positive difference to young people while applying your knowledge and boosting your employability.
Previous childhood and youth studies with criminology students have put their skills to work at organisations such as:
We’ll help you secure a placement that fits your ambitions.
You’ll get mentoring and support to get the most out of your placement year.
This course also allows you to take the Learning From Experience (LiFE) option.
This means you can earn credits towards your degree for work, volunteer and research placements that you do alongside your study.
We can also help you identify additional work experience, internship and voluntary opportunities that complement your studies.
On this module, you'll explore online human behaviour and how digital technology influences our actions on individual, group and wider societal levels.
You'll use psychological and criminological ideas to investigate cyberpsychology, and delve into these debates by designing and carrying out your own small-scale research projects on issues like virtual relationships, online identity, digital addiction, and more.
You'll consider concepts like risk, dangerousness and risk management and how they vary and affect the way criminals are managed in different countries, including the UK, the USA, Canada and Australia.
By analysing historical and modern-day debates around dangerousness and public protection, you'll develop your own informed perspectives on legislation, policies and key criminal behaviour profiles.
Environmental problems are a serious national and international concern, regularly dominating media headlines.
As scientific research has shown, these issues are increasingly urgent and include climate change, pollution, habitat loss, species decline and the destruction of our natural resources.
Through interactive lectures, discussion, debate and practical exercises, you'll critically analyse perpetrators and victims of green criminology, examine national and international policing and risk regulation roles, and reflect on justice issues.
You'll examine the powers afforded to police constables as they carry out their duties, alongside professional standards, accountability and key issues around diversity, ethics, values and wellbeing.
You'll discuss the purpose of the police force, demonstrate critical understanding of consent principles, evaluate equality policies, summarise resilience strategies, and critically examine the application of law within policing.
You’ll develop your knowledge of core linguistic frameworks in order to investigate a range of communication issues, such as language and control, the role of interpreters, the veracity of witness statements, and the interviewing of vulnerable witnesses, such as children.
You'll explore this question on this module, examining how gender affects pathways into offending, victimisation, punishment, treatment, rehabilitation and more.
You'll think critically about crime, criminology and criminal justice from the perspective of gender, with a focus on the experiences of women and those who identify as women.
You'll also spend time looking into serious offences such as organised crime and terrorism, and evaluate the role of the police in countering these threats.
You'll think critically about the theoretical concepts behind existing approaches to offender rehabilitation, comparing and evaluating how they work in the real world.
Through independent research and reflection, you'll gain crucial skills you can use to examine and find ways to improve rehabilitation practices across the criminal justice system.
On this module, you’ll dissect the media phenomenon of true crime, looking at public perceptions of crime and justice.
You'll think critically about how emotive true crime narratives frame key players, from villains to victims.
Exploring ideas of prejudice, you’ll investigate whether sensationalised serial killer stories simply reinforce stereotypes of class and gender.
Alternatively, could advocacy-focused wrongful conviction cases challenge assumptions and drive social change?
By applying criminology theory, you'll uncover complex biases shaping everything from podcasts to primetime prison documentaries.
You’ll delve into the various types of sexual offending, gain an understanding of the consequences, examine the role of media in shaping public perception, and discuss alternative methods for addressing offending.
There’s a strong emphasis on fostering respectful and informed discussions of sensitive topics.
Angeline.Dharmaraj-Savicks@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 10 hours a week.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology course in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Criminology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
Informative blogs and publications to follow include:
When you start the course, you'll have access to the latest journal articles and research.
Useful journals and journal articles you can access for free before you join us include:
We don't usually recommend referencing videos in your assignments.
But they're often a useful way to get an understanding of an idea or concept.
Informative Youtube channels to follow include:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-childhood-and-youth-studies-with-psychology:
Learn what makes young people tick as you develop knowledge of the biological and social factors that impact their complex journey into adulthood.
Includes 60+ hours of placements.
L5C8,                      L5C9
Young people’s development has as much to do with how they think as it does their circumstances and environment.
On this Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology degree, you’ll learn what makes young people tick as you develop knowledge of the biological and social factors that impact their complex journey into adulthood.
You'll also have the chance to focus your childhood and youth studies on a particular specialism - education and teaching, community and alternative provision, or leadership and enterprise.
You’ll gain the expert skills and knowledge needed for a rewarding career working with and supporting children and young people aged 8–25.
You could go onto work in sectors such as youth work, mental health support, teaching, fundraising.
The course combined with Psychology is stimulating and engaging and I also had an opportunity to apply childhood theories in my placements.
The staff is always accessible and always trying to improve students' experience.
Along with that, the support and positive feedback from my lecturers and course leader boosted my confidence.
Now I have developed a completely different mindset and want to study further to achieve my long-term educational goals.
Farah Memon, BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology.
Hear our students and lecturers explain the benefits of studying a 'with Psychology' course at the University of Portsmouth.
Dr Jacqueline Priego: Students who take a degree that combines a social science with psychology are typically interested in both societal and behavioural approaches to the human condition.
They are interested in what triggers our thinking, our emotions, our behaviours and how we see that we can shape our ideas, values and practices so that we can make this world a better place.
Dr Alexander Bradley: I think the nice aspect of studying a with psychology course is it both opens up both psychology, but also sociology or criminology, child and youth studies.
So it gives you two job markets to aim for.
Jonathan: What made me want to do a course with psychology is, it gives me a bigger variety and dig deeper into each subject.
Doing a degree with combined honours allows me to pick and choose from whichever career choice I choose to make.
Eleonora: Because I'm currently studying criminology with psychology, it really gives you the opportunity to study many different topics at once.
Like, I'm studying state crime at the same time I did psychological science.
You have two different types of knowledge.
You have the criminological one and the psychological ones - you can merge them together to actually do what you want to do.
Joshua: I went for a course with psychology because I wanted to have something extra as well, and I think that's shown definitely while being at the university because it gave an extra layer to the degree which I wasn't expecting.
Jonathan: If you're not sure, if you just want to do psychology or just want to do sociology, choose this degree.
It will give you the best of both and you get to focus on whatever you find most fascinating and interesting.
Joshua: The career I'm looking into is to join the Royal Navy first and then afterwards teaching.
But I still think this course does help me with that because there was one point of like stages of group development and that was part of the psychology course.
So I can use that when running a team within the Royal Navy and then after that, hopefully the course as a whole will help me in my teaching.
Jonathan: Why someone should choose University of Portsmouth?
It gives extremely good facilities.
Dr Jacqueline Priego: In relation to our courses, all of our students have access to the latest research through the university library.
That gives you the potential for a great student experience.
Dr Alexander Bradley: The city is a lovely place to be: it's friendly, it's warm, you have the sea.
We do a lot and put a lot of effort into our students to help them make not only a good time and to make the most of their time at university, but also beyond university as well.
Eleonora: You have career support for many years after you graduate.
Thanks to the University of Portsmouth, I was able to work in some research with my lecturers as well, which is something that other students are not able to do.
It's a great opportunity to make me stand out.
Dr Alexander Bradley: I think one of the really nice features about my role is when I do see students that make that transition and are happy in the world of work, in the places they've ended up and are making a contribution to society, that's really good.
In fact, sometimes when I get those emails that come back, it just makes my day.
Your knowledge of how the mind affects behaviour, coupled with a thorough understanding of the social and biological factors that influence young people’s development, will set you up for a rewarding career working with and supporting young people and children.
The opportunity to delve into your preferred childhood and youth studies specialism - from education and teaching, community and youth / family provision, or leadership and enterprise - will ensure you're prepared for the career of your choice.
All my lecturers have worked with children or young people in some way so they always give real-life examples in lectures which really helps.
Carrie Taylor, BA Hons Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology student
Areas you can work in include:
With further training and qualifications, you can also work in:
You'll get a minimum of 60 hours of work experience on a placement in year two in settings such as youth work organisations, mental health charities, nurseries or schools.
You can also choose to complete an additional year-long paid placement after your second or third year.
We'll help you secure placements that fit your workplace ambitions.
You’ll get mentoring and support to get the most out of the year.
Previous students put their skills to work on placements at primary and special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) schools, and organisations such as:
You’ll learn the theories explaining widespread social phenomena, from prejudice to leadership.
Consider how identity, norms and roles shape our interactions with each other, and question your own assumptions about people and society while strengthening your abilities for analytical and ethical thinking.
By the end of the module, you’ll have built knowledge at the intersection of psychology and sociology.
You’ll use conceptual tools like gender, class and disability to re-evaluate standard psychological approaches, debating psychology's role in real-world problems.
You’ll develop an understanding of how mainstream psychology has sometimes contributed to social inequalities, while also learning how critical psychological approaches aim to promote social justice.
Take a look at similar psychology courses to compare your options.
If you want to study traditional psychology and social psychology concepts (such as consciousness, memory, personality and intelligence) while developing the skills to influence positive change, take a look at our Sociology with Psychology degree .
When you work with criminals and their victims, the ability to understand people's emotions, thoughts and actions is vital.
Our Criminology with Psychology degree gives you a deep understanding of criminal behaviour.
You’ll be assessed through a variety of ways, including:
I bring professional experience to the course having trained as a Primary school teacher and worked in an Autism unit.
My research interests include autism and literacy, the use of visual methods in research with children, and literacy practices.
I incorporate my research into my teaching in experiential ways, for example, in my second year option module Children’s Literature, we explore how children interact with books through an assessment to make a book with children, which promotes their voices and agency.
I bring 35 years paid and voluntary experience as a youth and community worker to the course, including international work and the management of community projects.
This experience directly shapes the content of my teaching: former youth project participants and their parents bring insights to my lectures and presentations, and students are able to join in research as participant action researchers.
Students can also benefit from the working relationships we’ve established with 4 local youth organisations who provide placement opportunities.
I love the depth and diversity of the knowledge that is offered by Psychology lecturers at Portsmouth...
they are passionate and keen to share this with students.
They encourage us to ask questions [and] challenge theories and thought processes.
Deborah Grant,  BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology graduate
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 16 hours a week.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology course in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies with Psychology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-creative-writing:
Prepare yourself for a career in writing across mediums under the guidance of professional novelists, poets, and playwrights on this Creative Writing degree course.
WW80,                      WW81
Charles Dickens was born here, Sherlock Holmes was created here, H.G.
Wells travelled here in his ‘time machine’, and many tourists wander our timeless shores inked with seaside tales.
If there could be an ideal birthplace for your creative writing career, let it be Portsmouth.
Every lecture, seminar, and event on our Creative Writing degree course will inspire you to develop your writing voice, from stories and poetry to plays and screenplays.
Learn about the theory behind the art of writing and discover the history of storytelling and narrative, guided by a team of industry and research experts spanning writing, media and performance.
You can also broaden your writing experience by studying abroad and going on an optional professional placement.
By the end of the course, you’ll have the versatile writing skills to take you to any career destination within creative and communication fields.
A relevant qualification or experience in English/Creative Writing/Journalism/Media or Film Studies is required.
Applicants without a relevant subject or experience will be asked to provide a portfolio to support their application.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our Creative Writing courses portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Creative Writing with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Creative Writing.
English language proficiency at a minimum of IELTS band 5.5 with no component score below 5.5.
Here are two ways you can get ready for all the exciting writing you'll be doing over the next three years.
We have some recommended titles you can check out:
All of these appear in module reading lists on our Creative Writing courses, so buying them could be worthwhile – or you could wait until you can access them in our University Library or on our Moodle pages after starting this course.
Write every day; don’t throw any of it away.
Writing's the easiest and most important way to prepare for a creative writing course.
The more you write, the more you’ll:
You don’t have to pen a major publication or a future blockbuster screenplay either.
You can start small by keeping a diary, journal, or setting up your own blog, and adding entries to those.
Pen film, TV and stage masterpieces using industry-wide scriptwriting software such as Celtx and Final Draft.
Our open-plan space includes PCs and Macs equipped with Adobe Creative Suite and other professional software.
Explore Suite
Our University Library is home to not only publications you'll need for your studies but also rare archives and special book collections that will help kindle your writing fire.
Explore Library
Listen to this short story by 2021 graduate Eleanor Launchbury and hear what you can achieve on this Creative Writing degree course.
Writing is one of the oldest forms of communication and has evolved and transformed over the ages.
It thrives more than ever in our modern world where traditional and digital communication coexist, with its outlets continuing to expand.
Spoken communication – such as storytelling, teaching, and poetry – is also on the rise.
After graduating from our Creative Writing degree course, you’ll be poised for numerous roles that rely on the powers of communication and the written word.
You can also continue your studies at postgraduate level and venture into research.
Areas graduates from our Creative Writing courses have worked in include:
Roles graduates from our Creative Writing courses have gone onto include:
Check out our Creative Careers team's blog to find out where fellow film, media and communication students have interned during their studies.
Placement students on our Creative Writing courses have worked in a variety of roles in commerce, publishing, entertainment, and education.
Others have chosen to work for themselves.
Among these experiences are:
You'll study with our partners ICP on the University of Portsmouth campus with access to all facilities, support and societies
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Creative Writing
Get used to how lectures, seminars and tutorials work, so you can move onto your degree ready for success
Learn how to meet the demands of taking on a bachelor's degree at university
You’ll dive into real-world tasks such as blogging, pitching ideas, and proofreading to use what you’ve learned in actual job settings.
By creating high-quality creative nonfiction and journalism that meets industry standards, you'll improve your grammar, structure, editing, and styling skills.
This module will help you gain hands-on experience in arts, media, and publishing roles.
This experience will help you build expertise and gain confidence to share your talents with the world.
You’ll explore ancient storytelling methods still used today, from epic poetry to folk ballads.
Next, you’ll put classic plots and archetypes to modern use, twisting tales or upending tropes in original poems and short fiction.
By annotating drafts and thinking deeply about your work, you’ll find your unique style and connect to the roots of human creativity.
Become part of a global community reinventing the classics.
Through diverse works, you’ll develop your ideas and apply new concepts, including narrative theory that helps you understand how stories are constructed, and can spark your own literary creativity.
You’ll take part in lectures and group discussions to debate genres and conventions.
You’ll nurture your critical awareness, research skills, and essay management, preparing you to examine life’s mysteries through storytelling.
This module will also set you up with all of the referencing skills you'll need to navigate the rest of your degree.
Delve into the critical thinking and academic theory behind successful writing through engaging lectures, case studies, and presentations.
Pick up skills and strategies from renowned writers, examining how creativity and technique fuse to create vivid narratives.
Put this knowledge into practice by writing your own unique piece, using the methods of the authors you admire to shape your own voice.
This module offers the core inspiration and practical guidance to elevate your writing to university.
You’ll discover both the magic and methodology of creativity—the key ingredients for a fulfilling writing career.
You’ll tap into your memories and senses to explore identity across poetry, prose, and hybrid forms.
Study memoirs, both factual and fictional, and create your own while keeping a journal of your progress.
Through in-class peer reviews, you’ll give and receive feedback to develop insight and technique.
By semester’s end, you’ll submit portfolios showcasing your best autobiographical writing.
This module will guide you in skilfully incorporating personal stories into your writing, teaching you to express authenticity with creative finesse.
By the end, you’ll understand deeply how to transform personal experiences into fascinating literature and have original work that shows your ability to capture and convey truth through creative expression.
The course will cover traditional storytelling techniques through different writing projects.
As you progress, you will learn how to create proposals and scripts that meet the industry standards.
This will enable you to become a better storyteller.
Additionally, you will learn how to deliver your ideas in an impressive and captivating manner.
This will help you manage your time more effectively.
By exploring the creative methods used in major films and TV shows, you will gain a profound understanding of the storytelling process.
Upon completing this module, you will be well-equipped to begin your career as a writer in the film and TV industry.
You will learn literary techniques used in excellent nonfiction through studying examples.
Additionally, you will gain valuable insights from the industry to create engaging articles for modern readers.
You'll build a portfolio by completing assignments that take you from pitching ideas to publication.
This will help you showcase your abilities to potential employers.
You will also learn research methods and editing skills to produce high-quality work.
Ethics and representation are important when it comes to quality writing.
Therefore, we'll engage in discussions about these topics to help you understand their impact.
This module equips you with the tools and experience to excel as a nonfiction writer.
This philosophy-driven module invites you to examine key texts, collaborating with experts to dissect celebrated literature.
Equipped with fresh analytical methods and understanding, you’ll apply what you learn directly in practical workshops.
Through a mix of lectures, detailed reading, timed essays, and presentations, you’ll integrate philosophical concepts, using age-old wisdom to improve your writing craft.
Immerse yourself in the intellectual heritage of literature and become a more profound and reflective writer.
Engage with communities, explore the role of local news, and develop multi-platform journalism skills.
You'll work in a newsroom environment and produce legally compliant content and may contribute stories to local, regional, or national media.
You'll analyse key crime writing texts from detective fiction to philosophical writings on crime and punishment, considering the way they represent criminals, the police, the ethics of the death penalty, as well as historical contexts and theoretical approaches.
This module invites you on an investigative journey through the ethics, identities and politics underpinning tales of crime.
From idea development and research to structuring pieces for different platforms, you'll explore news features, profiles, reviews, opinion pieces, and more.
Through workshops and editorial collaboration, you'll build a portfolio of ideas and finished work, preparing you for the industry.
Engage with theories and research suited to the subject.
Analyse seminal comic book texts, considering the interplay of production elements and audience reception.
Tailor language, form, and technique to immerse readers in imagined worlds, compelling characters, and thrilling plots.
Reflect critically on bringing ideas from conception to completion.
Analyse themes and trends shaking up the field, like genre-blends and subversion.
Hone skills in constructive feedback to elevate your own work and that of peers.
On this module, you’ll explore philosophical ideas around spaces and places in texts from the seventeenth to the twenty-first century.
You’ll learn how to interpret spatial narratives through your evaluation of interior and exterior spaces, town and country, rooms and landscape.
You’ll analyse how creative works draw on wider cultural anxieties around industrialisation, race, class, and evolving gender roles.
In this module, you’ll expand on what you’ve been passionate about during your studies, whether that’s a specific genre, theme, author, or theory.
You might produce a novella, poetry collection, play or other original work, paired with a researched essay placing it in context.
Your ambitious thesis will demonstrate academic rigour, proper referencing, and advanced creative writing skills.
Select your topic with care, as this specialisation could be a highlight on your CV after graduation.
With your initiative and our expert support, you’ll produce distinctive research and writing that exhibit your knowledge.
You'll analyse core texts and structure, and develop your professional critique skills.
You'll learn to confidently apply your judgement and challenge opinions, as you utilise feedback to polish your pitches, outlines and scripts.
You’ll study different animation styles and visual codes and learn how to analyse them.
You’ll understand the animation industry, its authors, and national traditions.
These will help you see how to use solid facts to support your opinions in academic writing.
By looking closely at the art form and its broader themes, you’ll create an in-depth portfolio that shows your critical views.
Finish this module with the skills you need to analyse animations on your own.
You'll trace the social anxieties and ideological structures conveyed in literary depictions of vampires, monsters and more as you explore every dark corner of this remarkable genre.
You'll develop and apply critical theories unveiling Gothic representation of identities, revolutions, environments and more, and express your ideas creatively through an essay or podcast.
You'll investigate diverse definitions and famous examples of the genre from across the globe, honing advanced textual analysis skills.
Through lively debates, you'll explore magical realism's relationship with history, culture and narrative form, focusing on issues including postcoloniality, the limits of realism, postmodern narratorial techniques, historiography and transculturation.
Use what you’ve learnt from various genres during your studies to refine an original manuscript — be it fiction, poetry, drama, or nonfiction.
Combine literary influences, analytical insights, and writing techniques to refine your work for professional publication.
You’ll also document your creative journey from the initial idea to the finished product, reflecting critically on the impact of your literary choices.
Receive guidance on the business side of writing as you prepare for your career launch after graduation.
With this module, you’ll be prepared to share your unique voice with the world.
In your second or third year, you can choose to study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, Asia, Australia or North America.
Find out more about studying abroad
These are some of the expert staff that will teach you on this course.
Programme Lead
Alison.Habens@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Creative Writing and Global Journalism
Tom.Sykes@port.ac.uk
Calum.Kerr@port.ac.uk
Steven.Obrien@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Creative Writing degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, tutorials and presentations for about 12 hours a week.
You may need to buy items such as DVDs and MiniDV tapes to use on practical units, which cost approximately £20–£30.
You’ll need to cover the material costs for individual project work, which usually costs £50–£100.
To start BA (Hons) Creative Writing in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Creative Writing with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-early-childhood-studies-with-psychology:
Develop the skills you need for a career in the early years sector and make a difference to the lives of young people with our Early Childhood Studies with Psychology degree course.
LX53,                      LX54
If you want to make a difference in the lives of young people and understand what makes them tick, you can combine the study of childhood and psychology on this BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology degree.
You’ll explore the theory and lives of children from birth to eight years old, covering themes such as cover education, health and welfare.
And you'll study psychology to build your understanding of children's individual and collective behaviour and how this affects their development.
At the end of the course you'll be set for a career in roles such as early years practitioner, therapeutic play worker, youth worker, teacher and social worker.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies or the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year course.
This is because these are 'pathway' degrees.
You’ll study Early Childhood Studies in depth and add Psychology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies and BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology.
When you complete the course, you’ll be prepared to take on roles in education, social care and health-related areas.
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level, such as with a PGCE course that would give you Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Previous students have gone on to work in:
Specific roles that our graduates have gone on to include:
After you leave the University, you can get help, advice and support for up to 5 years from our Careers and Employability service as you advance in your career.
To give you the best chance of securing a great job when you graduate, our Careers and Employability service can help you find relevant work experience during your course.
We can help you identify placements, internships and voluntary roles that will complement your studies and build your links within the industry.
We'll also be available to help, advise and support you for up to five years as you advance in your career.
This course allows you to take the Professional Experience option in your third year.
After your second year of study, you can do a paid placement year, working within local schools and organisations.
This lets you put your knowledge and skills to work while developing your links with employers.
You’ll get mentoring and support throughout your placement, to ensure you’re getting the most out of the year.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology.
You’ll learn how to carry out research ethically when working with communities and organisations to address real-world issues.
You’ll develop your own research proposal with expert guidance - from forming questions to methodology design.
Build transferable research skills you’ll use throughout your degree, from reflective practice to clear communication of your findings.
You’ll look at the factors that affect children's development in terms of health and wellbeing, including government policy and current social issues.
You'll think about the challenges that families face and the issues that have emerged after the pandemic.
This module will help you develop your ability to communicate and advocate effectively for children and young people, and to achieve knowledge components of Early Childhood Studies Graduate Practitioner Competencies.
You’ll study pioneering ideas that planted the seeds for contemporary approaches to play, creativity and holistic development.
You’ll investigate how partnerships between homes and educational settings can foster children's success, and learn how to plan and carry out early learning experiences.
To bring this to life, you’ll complete a 25-day (150 hours) placement with children aged 0-8 years, offering an invaluable platform for professional and personal reflection.
You’ll learn how to apply classroom concepts in a practical setting, giving due consideration to any needs children may have when it comes to gender, class, race, disability and family life.
You’ll reflect on your own learning to articulate your personal and professional development goals, and relate your learning and experience to your career goals and training needs.
This module gives you the opportunity to achieve assessed work based learning at either Early Years Educator (Level 3), or to build upon your knowledge and experience in working with young children in the EYFS in order to develop their professional practice.
You'll also continue to work towards completion of the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies (Level 6).
Sarah.Barton@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Early Childhood Studies pathway.
Course fees to be confirmed for 2026/27 shortly.
You need to choose BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies or BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study Early Childhood Studies in depth and add Psychology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Psychology degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study Psychology too.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) Early Child Studies with Psychology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Early Child Studies with Psychology with Foundation year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-economics-and-management:
Successful managers make economic decisions every day.
With this degree you'll get a solid foundation in both economics and management, skills you can apply to any business sector that interests you.
L1N1,                      L1N5
To be a business leader you need to understand how to run a business and how to make financial decisions that will keep your business profitable.
Our BA (Hons) Economics and Management degree will give you the skills and knowledge to do both.
You'll have the edge in the employment market when you graduate with a broad understanding of the core elements of business such as managing people, accounting, and operations management, as well as a deep understanding of how economic issues impact management practices and how data shapes decision making.
If you choose to take a paid placement, you’ll have the chance to apply your new economic management knowledge in the workplace and graduate with a year of industry experience.
Past students have worked at companies like the Office for National Statistics, Amazon, or the Department for Energy and Climate Change.
Ivy Maingi, BA (Hons) Economics and Management student
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).
Tyler Everitt, BA (Hons) Economics and Management alumnus
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Economics and Management with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Economics and Management.
There is less emphasis on maths in this course than in our other economics courses, but we're still looking for good literacy and good numeracy skills.
Students who get the most from this course are those who have an interest in understanding economic decision making within the broader context of a business or organisation.
We're looking for an interest in business and management, so we'd encourage you to read the business sections of a quality newspaper and get some work experience (of any kind).
When you finish this degree you'll be highly employable.
You'll understand how all parts of a business connect and how financial data and decisions influence success and failure.
You can apply these skills to any business sector that you're interested in.
These skills are valuable in a number of business sectors.
Economics students Mani, Jason and Ting-yi tell of their experiences doing work placements at Microsoft, ONS and HM Treasury.
Adam: I think it's really important for students to be really immersed and engaged in the real business environment.
One of the most exciting opportunities is taking an industrial placement.
Mani: I relied on the placement office massively.
They were so helpful, such as reviewing my CV before I was applying, they ran mock assessment centres and interviews and I went to them, which I found so beneficial.
Jason: The responsibility was pretty big right from the beginning.
Mani: At Microsoft, they encourage you to join extracurricular stuff going on.
I joined the Social Impact team, where I had the opportunity to lead and create events.
Jason: One the first things I did was coordinating big bank meetings for the Business Department.
Ting-yi: I wrote a report which is called Changes in the Economy since the 1970s.
It got published on the website.
Jason: At the end of the placement, I managed to oversee the entire thing, working with the Chancellor’s office.
You get a lot to do.
Adam: That year long experience really does something to a student.
They are a true economist.
Mani: We are really encouraged to do placements, which I had a great time doing so I definitely recommend it.
Sham Ganatra, BA (Hons) Economics and Management
You'll learn through hands-on training in relevant tools and platforms, giving you the skills to extract, analyse and visualise economic data, solve problems and communicate findings clearly and professionally.
This module also fosters attention to detail, critical thinking and structured reasoning, meaning you'll be able to approach data-driven tasks with precision and confidence and become prepared to address real-world economic challenges effectively.
The module provides opportunities for students during practical sessions to develop their own views and reasoned arguments for overcoming developmental problems.
Specifically, the module aims to:
Students will also learn basic experimental techniques commonly applied in behavioural economics.
The lectures will cover behavioural topics as well as the basics of experimental research.
In the seminars we will further discuss topics from the lecture and demonstrate research techniques with immersive experiments.
Students will develop a research project, and present their design in class.
As well as developing graduate skills in critical analysis and research design, students will also develop practical skills as the techniques employed to complete the project are used by economic consultants and the Government Economics Service.
Take a look at our other economics courses to compare you options.
If you'd like to know more about the banking sector or want to bring more money-savvy knowledge to your business career, take a look at our Economics Finance and Banking degree .
If you want to build a solid foundation on your way to becoming a professional economist by studying economic theory and practicing to an advanced level, take a look at our Economics degree .
Discover our Bloomberg Suite
Discover our TEAL learning space
Discover our Business Simulation Suite
We listened to our students when they told us that they wanted to keep some of the positive changes we've made to teaching and learning, so we're keeping a blended teaching model with some online learning.
The majority of your learning will be face-to-face and will include:
In this course there's an emphasis on using the latest software and tech to support your learning and develop your practical knowledge.
You'll have a personal tutor, student engagement officers and study support staff to help you throughout your studies.
Your assessment will depend on which modules you take.
The majority of assessment is through coursework, but assessment methods are likely to include:
I lead engagement with local authorities and businesses to develop ways of using economics to solve business and public policy problems.
My involvement with shaping public policy stretches to Europe, where I'm helping to shape communications between EU policy makers and EU citizens.
I'm also particularly interested in corruption within sports organisations and the environmental impact of domestic and international tourism.
I'm the research lead for the University's Economics and Finance subject group.
My main area of research is behavioural economics.
I'm interested in people's behaviour, what factors influence their decisions, and why the standard economic model is mostly wrong.
I'm particularly interested in how people behave when bargaining or making decisions for other people.
Read my full profile
Your personal tutor helps you make the transition to postgraduate study and gives you academic and personal support throughout your course.
To start BA (Hons) Economics and Management in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Economics and Management with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-language-and-linguistics:
Immerse yourself in the spoken and written language, and how it shapes our experience of the world and our experience of society, work, politics and culture.
QQ31,                      QQ32
Language shapes our experience of the world – from our social and emotional lives, to our experience of society, work, politics and culture.
Immerse yourself in the nature of spoken and written language, and how it's used in everything from digital communication to forensic investigation.
You'll study how language works, including the relationships between language, the mind, and society, and how language varies through time, place, culture and identity.
You'll explore the different ways people use language and what they use it for.
Discover methods for analysing spoken and written language, how we learn language and how we teach it.
You'll develop sought-after skills including communication, creativity and critical thinking.
You'll be taught by expert researchers and study alongside students within the School of Education, Languages and Linguistics – bringing opportunities to learn from the latest research and build intercultural relationships.
91%
of students said good advice is available for making career choices
You can choose to customise your degree depending on your interests and ambitions, by specialising in English literature or teaching English as a foreign language.
If you want to combine your study of English language and linguistics with a passion for English literature, you can choose to take a look at our pathway degree: BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature .
If you’re interested in teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL) you can upgrade your qualifications with the Trinity College London Certificate – an internationally recognised TESOL qualification.
You’ll need to pass an additional entry test and interview to add TESOL to your studies.
"Language is a really powerful thing." Meet the students and lecturers from our BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics course, discover what they love about the subject and how it can help in your future career.
Lucy: Language is a really powerful thing.
I think it's so powerful that you don't even notice that you can do so much with it.
But studying that is really interesting, and I just had a moment where I was like, this is the course I want to do.
William Forsyth: Some of the topics we cover on the course lead into a lot of things that people want to do afterwards, so we have quite a lot on education.
For people who want to go into publishing and marketing, using social media, we have clinical linguistics for people who want to go into language therapy and that kind of thing.
We have forensic linguistics.
Grahame Luff: Forensic linguistics is the study of language applied to forensic situations in context, i.e.
looking at written documents and speech and using that to solve crime.
The skills that students will learn will be analytical skills, the ability to take new ideas and concepts and apply them to different situations.
William Forsyth: We have two modules aimed specifically at teaching English to non-native speakers.
The first one is called TESOL, which is Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages.
And the second one is an accredited module examined by Trinity.
Rebecca Hamlet: Trinity is a recognised teaching qualification and it qualifies students to teach in language schools all over the world and TESOL is the input for that.
They are assigned to a tutor, they work with a class and they deliver lessons with feedback and support from their tutors.
William Forsyth: By undertaking the BA, that will allow them to go and do a Master's course, there's then the opportunity to do a PhD, set up their own consultancy service or join the police.
Rebecca Hamlet: Many jobs involve language and linguistics because it is about communication.
I can't think of many careers where understanding about language wouldn't be enormously helpful.
Alexander: I've definitely taken an interest in forensics as well as the language of law.
So I've applied for various Master's along the line of forensic accounting as well as a conversion to law.
But this courses has definitely helped me get a much clearer line of what I'd like to do moving forward.
Max: I think what made me really realise that I loved the course was during the start of COVID-19, it was a difficult time for a lot of students, and a lot of people in general.
I still found myself enjoying the lectures, even from a distant learning point of view.
And then when coming back into the classroom this year, really made me go, "Okay, I've loved it online and now I love it in person." William Forsyth: The reason why I would recommend students coming to Portsmouth is that the teaching staff are excellent, the provision that the teachers provide is excellent and the support that students will receive here is also excellent.
Lucy: When I visited the University of Portsmouth, it just clicked for me because I'd visited a number of other unis and it just didn't feel right.
But when I visited here, I just loved the closeness of everything to each other and it just felt right.
Rebecca Hamlet: Language and linguistics has many, many different aspects because at the end of the day, language is everything.
We are surrounded by it.
It's powerful and we need to know how it works in society.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics.
English language proficiency at a minimum of IELTS band 6.0 with no component score below 5.5.
In this episode of our Life Solved podcast, we consider how English became one of the world’s most widely spoken languages.
And we find out how a mathematical model developed here at the University of Portsmouth might predict its future.
You’ll graduate with specialist expertise in language and linguistics, plus sought-after employability skills including:
Previous graduates are now applying these skills in a diverse range of sectors and industries.
If you decide to pursue a career that’s closely related to your studies, you could apply for jobs in writing, editing or publishing.
Or employ your research and analysis skills to go on to postgraduate study, in areas such as speech therapy, communication studies, law and marketing.
This degree course gives you the freedom to explore topics and find areas you're most passionate about, and the foundation to pursue these areas after graduation.
Further study in forensic linguistics could open up possible careers in law enforcement, criminal justice or legal firms.
You could also develop your linguistic talents to work as a speech therapist or train actors to master different dialects.
You could work in any of the following areas:
Previous graduates have gone onto further training and work in various fields, including:
After your second or third year of study, you can choose to do a paid work or research placement year.
It’s fantastic for your CV and will really help you stand out when applying for jobs.
With mentoring and support throughout your placement, you’ll have our support to get the most from the experience.
Previous placement destinations have included:
I enjoyed the range of units that my course offered.
My favourite unit was forensic linguistics, as this was something I had never covered before.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics
You'll develop skills in phonetics, phonology, morphology, lexis, semantics and syntax.
You'll learn how to transcribe speech, identify and classify language features, analyse meaning in texts, and understand register.
This is a practical and collaborative module – you'll work with your classmates in seminars and then apply your new skills by investigating your own chosen texts.
We'll guide you through using university resources like the library and Moodle while familiarising you with processes like ethics approval and referencing.
You’ll get hands-on with collecting, examining, and presenting language data.
You’ll develop professional skills like teamwork, time management and resilience as you take the first steps towards becoming an independent researcher.
You’ll analyse the syntactic, lexical, functional and phonological elements of English, building your understanding of pedagogic grammar.
You’ll also have a go at learning a previously unknown language and reflect on this experience, as well as making contrasts between this language and known languages.
On this module, you’ll explore the intersections of language and human experience, journeying through key linguistics topics like psycholinguistics, social variation, language acquisition and language disorders.
You'll use real-world spoken and written texts to dive into cultural differences, gender dynamics, language evolution and more.
This module will help you decide which areas you’d like to explore in your second and third years.
You'll explore this question on this module, studying different types of 'texts', and learning how to interpret the grammatical and thematic elements within them.
You'll work with a range of texts, across spoken, written and digital media.
You'll learn skills in transcription and how to analyse conversations, thinking about what we communicate about our identities through social interaction.
You'll record and examine real-world conversations to see communication dynamics in action.
By the end of the module, you'll understand how language shapes our interactions with others.
You’ll go beyond vocabulary and assess why we say things the way we do, looking for patterns in everyday language.
You’ll develop practical text analysis skills, and examine language as a tool we use to accomplish social goals.
You'll explore semantics and pragmatics in depth, and analyse diverse spoken and written texts using key terminology and principles.
You'll engage with linguistics and literature to stay up to date with developments like social media discourse and become an expert in how meaning is created and conveyed in English.
We’ll cover various aspects of social (in)justice, and you’ll then choose an area you feel passionate about to investigate further, explaining links between language and social justice in your chosen domain.
You’ll capture and convey your insights through a digital portfolio.
You’ll study a number of key topics and issues in the field of language acquisition and their implications for your own personal and professional interests and needs in language learning, language teaching, and language studies.
Through dynamic peer discussions, you’ll rethink assumptions about multilingualism while gaining tools to evaluate language policies and learning models.
Although this module focuses on the teaching of English, it can apply to other languages too.
If you’re doing the Trinity course, this is the second of three modules you’ll need to complete to achieve the internationally recognised professional teaching qualification, Trinity College London Cert TESOL.
You’ll study real speech and linguistic data to understand different linguistic deficit models.
You’ll build on what you’ve learned about morphology, syntax and phonology and apply it to real examples.
Learn by doing as you explain your findings to different audiences through creative mediums like podcasts.
You’ll learn skills you’ll need to teach in language schools worldwide, including exploring different methods and approaches to the teaching of languages, in particular English as a Second or Other Language (ESOL).
You’ll design a series of lesson plans and reflect upon your own performance as a trainee teacher, drawing up an action plan for future professional development.
It's up to you what your dissertation or project is about – this will be your chance to showcase your passion for language by choosing a subject area or topic that most interests you.
You'll investigate words, phrases and their meanings across diverse contexts like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP).
Developing corpus linguistics abilities lets you spot patterns and trends - useful for careers from teaching to computing.
Get hands-on with data to uncover language insights, reporting findings with critical methodology grounded in key concepts.
You’ll analyse the historical processes that have shaped our understanding of linguistic variety, spanning grammar to phonology.
You’ll evaluate origins of modern vocabulary, structure and dialects, building valuable knowledge about this vibrant mode of human connection.
Examine feminist linguistic theories and methodologies investigating how speech and text perpetuate or confront patriarchal norms.
Discover how conversational patterns subtly cue stereotypes, status and gender roles across diverse cultures.
You’ll question your own assumptions while developing skills for respectful communication and critical consumption of gendered media messages.
You'll learn about the job application process from the perspective of both candidates and recruiters, thinking about what employers look for in graduates and how you can optimise your own professional profile.
Through mock interviews and assessments, you'll hone your skills and learn how to communicate your achievements and career goals, ready to take the next step after you graduate.
During your study abroad programme, you’ll expand your global perspective and develop additional skills to boost your future career, as well as making memories, new friends and career contacts.
This is an amazing opportunity to expand your horizons and set yourself up for your future career by studying abroad and becoming a student ambassador for our university.
You’ll build your rhetorical skills to deliver persuasive presentations, and analyse diverse interpersonal interactions, from meetings to interviews, complaints to small talk.
Learn what makes effective workplace discourse and find confidence in your ability to navigate professional spoken communication.
You'll consider how you can incorporate creative activities using music, literature, drama, film, storytelling and games into a series of lessons.
You'll also think about wider contexts and make professional judgements concerning planning beyond individual lessons.
We'll use examples in class relating to the teaching of English but the same principles and techniques can be used for the teaching of other languages too.
You’ll explore the many Englishes used internationally, analysing how the language has spread and adapted politically and culturally over time.
You’ll seek to answer thought-provoking issues: how equal are different Englishes?
What are the pedagogical implications as English becomes the global lingua franca?
Understand the plurality of modern Englishes and their complex implications across the world today.
You’ll focus on the analysis of computer-mediated-communication practices, the language used in on social media, the effects of social media on language and the social structures that emerge when people use these applications.
You’ll delve into the big ideas relating to language and social media to develop your own perspectives.
Using analytical frameworks, you'll adapt texts to suit different audiences, purposes and settings, and evaluate and produce examples of professional writing.
You’ll also apply your learning through a presentation.
The best part of the course was being given the opportunity and freedom to choose to study the areas I enjoy the most in English Language and Linguistics.
For example, I was able to discover and explore my interest in teaching in modules like TESOL and Introduction to Teaching.
Eloise Peters, BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics
Lee.Oakley@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your English Language and Linguistics degree.
To find something I’m so interested in has made me happier and more determined to do well in all parts of my life.
I think that’s due to the vast amount of topics, taught by lecturers that are so dedicated.
There is such a supportive environment.
Bethany Farmer, BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics
Enhance your degree with an internationally recognised qualification in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages: the Trinity College London Cert TESOL.
This opportunity is conditional on a successful performance in an entry test and interview in order to fulfil professional requirements.
There's no cost if you take the Trinity College London Teaching Practice module as one of your options.
If you choose to take this module outside your planned curriculum, there's a fee of £355.
To start BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-language-and-linguistics-with-literature:
On this English Language and Linguistics with Literature degree course, you'll discover how we use language in literature and digital communication, examine forensic linguistics and learn how people use the English language across the world.
Build on your interest of English language and literature and prepare yourself for a successful career on this BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature degree.
You'll discover how we use language in literature and digital communication, examine forensic linguistics and learn how people use the English language across the world.
You’ll also study literature from classics to the contemporary and become an expert in reading, analysing and discussing the written works that inspire you.
Your studies will set you up for a career where your communication, creative, management and critical thinking skills will shine.
You could work in areas such as publishing, teaching, advertising and marketing after the course or do postgraduate study.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics or the BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Foundation Year course.
This is because it's a 'pathway' degree.
You’ll study English Language and Linguistics in depth and add Literature as a complementary subject in years 2 and 3.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics and BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature.
After the course, you can use the communication and professional skills you've learnt across various roles in the private and public sectors.
Fields you could work in include:
You could also go on to do postgraduate study in areas such as speech therapy, marketing and communication.
We can help you identify placements, internships, voluntary roles and freelancing opportunities that will complement your studies and build your CV.
This course allows you to take the Learning From Experience (LiFE) option.
After your second year, you can do an optional paid work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience.
Previous students have secured placements at organisations such as:
You’ll get mentoring and support throughout the year.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature
You’ll look at diverse genres that shed light on historical moments such as slavery, post-colonialism, suffrage, second wave feminism and post-feminism.
You’ll analyse how transnational and gender identities are constructed and expressed in a global context, honing skills for contextual literary analysis alongside independent research.
You’ll dig into the cultural context of violence in Shakespeare's age, analysing how poetry and performance play on complex dynamics of authority, resistance and ideology.
Through Shakespeare’s works, you’ll develop your own perspectives on the role of war and peace in sixteenth-century English culture.
You'll explore diverse literary perspectives on the Holocaust, from first-hand accounts to contemporary post-memory texts.
Through critical reading and innovative creative projects both in groups and on your own, you'll grapple with the ethics of memorialisation and the role of cultural memory.
On this module, you’ll analyse constructions of masculinity across US culture, interrogating literary and cinematic stereotypes.
You’ll work in groups to compare key theories and concepts, and consider how ideas of masculinity relate to other cultural and social constructs such as gender, nationality, race, class and sexuality.
You'll critically examine representations of appetite, consumption and the body across literary and historical texts from the era.
Debate themes like hunger and self-starvation, gluttony and excess, even vampirism and cannibalism.
Through close reading and contextual analysis, you'll uncover what writings on food can tell us about how the Victorians viewed issues such as gender, race, class, nation and sexuality.
You’ll get an introduction to the role and representation of time in contemporary fiction, as well as to philosophies of time and temporality.
You’ll also consider the role of time in narrative - what time is and how it underpins and affects narrative structures.
Topics you'll cover may include the present; temporal direction, time, gender and sexuality, reading and readers, contemporary times, and endings and end times.
Please note , we'll confirm 2026 course fees soon.
You need to choose BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics or BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Foundation Year when you apply for this course, because this is a ‘pathway’ course.
This is where you study English Language and Linguistics in depth and add Literature as a complementary subject in years 2 and 3.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study Literature in years 2 and 3.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with Literature in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-literature:
English Literature at Portsmouth gives you skills in creative and critical thinking, for any career where communication counts.
In the city of Charles Dickens and Sherlock Holmes, you’ll explore how stories ask complex questions of society and identity, and learn to analyse the truth of any text.
Q301,                      Q302
104-112 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent, to include a relevant subject
If you want a future with fewer limits, this is the degree for you.
When you study English Literature at Portsmouth, you'll also explore history and politics, society and culture, human relationships and identities, and how we choose to live.
And you’re doing it in a city steeped in lively literature, from Charles Dickens to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
You’ll explore complex, challenging issues – from masculinity to the Holocaust.
You’ll learn the skills to critically analyse the purpose, truth and impact of any written text.
You’ll also develop the skills to produce your own writing and presentations, so you can communicate original ideas in ways that engage and influence readers.
The combination of creative thinking and rigorous analysis you develop will make you a compelling candidate for all kinds of jobs – from marketing to museums, and journalism to publishing.
Opt to do a foundation year with ICP to get uni-ready ahead of this course, then take up a guaranteed place on this full Bachelor's degree when you successfully finish your foundation year
From canonical literature to popular culture, students studying English Literature with us can choose from a wide range of modules, and will open themselves up to a wide range of career opportunities.
Hear from staff and students about why they love English Literature at Portsmouth.
Josh: For me, English literature has always been escapism.
Rebecca: It's nice to take a book and place it within the society it was written in, and how that then applies to the society we're in now.
It challenges you to think about the world as it is currently.
Dr Christopher Pittard: The English Literature course at the University of Portsmouth is a three year course, or four year course with a placement.
It's a course which is based on ideas of both canonical literature, some people like Wordsworth, Charles Dickens and Shakespeare, but also sort of more popular forms of culture; the spy novel, science fiction, fantasy fiction.
I think our students want to come and study English Literature at Portsmouth because of the range of modules.
Rebecca: In first year we did Global Identities, which covers a lot of translated texts from different places.
Some were from India, some from Africa, and I've actually now based my dissertation off what I learned in that module.
Josh: We studied a graphic novel called Fun Home by Alison Bechdel as part of our American Literature module.
We got to partner up with some musical theatre students that were actually putting on this production of Fun Home.
So we were doing the literary analysis side of it.
They were doing the musical version of it, so it was great to kind of look at how our texts are interdisciplinary.
Dr Christopher Pittard: We have a wide range of assessment methods, which looks at the scope of literary history from the early modern period right up to contempt through fiction.
We don't have the closed book fixed time exam.
Josh: I grew a love of contemporary literature, which the lecturers were really good at fostering, especially representation of gender and sexuality within more modern day film and literature.
Dr Christopher Pittard: All of the lecturers here at Portsmouth are published authors, published researchers.
It's very much a course where students can follow their own literary passions and develop their own expertise.
A degree in English literature leads students into a wide range of careers.
Many of our students go into; journalism, into print media, into television, radio publishing, teaching and public relations.
It really is a very versatile degree.
It's one of those ones that employers are really interested in.
They want the transferable skills that an English literature degree creates.
Josh: You are gaining abilities such as communication, time management.
You can synthesise a 500 page word novel and be able to argue for your point of view.
I think this comes in handy going into the future.
Rebecca: For those wanting to study English at the University of Portsmouth, I'd say just go for it.
I love the city.
Dr Christopher Pittard: It's the birthplace of Charles Dickens.
It's been home to people like Jane Austen.
Simon Armitage was a student at the University of Portsmouth.
Our students get a lot out of reading these literary figures who've lived on these streets and walked these same streets.
Rebecca: It's been one of the most enjoyable experiences of my life.
It's a second home to me.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Literature.
See alternative English language qualifications.
After you start this course, you can choose to modify the qualification you graduate with.
If you combine your literature studies with an interest in history or the media, you could graduate with a customised degree:
Alumnus Nelson Hylton talks about how his English Literature course at the University of Portsmouth helped his career as a presenter at BBC Radio 1.
Nelson: When I was leaving sixth form, I wasn't exactly entirely sure what I wanted to do with my life.
But, I knew that I loved reading and I loved writing, like, I spent so much time reading books and for me, it was the wide variety of literature that made me want to study at Portsmouth.
There were certain elements of the course where we'd have to do presentations and speak publicly, and that obviously helped me a lot with what I do now, speaking to thousands of people on air.
But I'd says as well, the course helped me become more confident in my ability, speak to people and communicate my ideas and values across them so it helped me in a few different ways for sure.
Why Portsmouth?
I would say there's so many different varieties of activities, be it, you know, radio or American football and the fact that you can take part in so much more than just your course.
I think some of my course lecturers were some of the best in the country, you know?
They were great.
They've worked really hard in helping me achieve my dreams.
Any university student is going to have ups and downs whilst they're at university, and the pastoral care and support from Portsmouth is second to none.
They really help me and they really looked after me.
I would definitely say English literature does link to what I do now as a radio presenter because a lot of it is storytelling, trying to allow the listener to believe exactly what I believe and trying to guide them on this journey.
I think those are all skills that I've picked up when formulating arguments in essays.
It's helped me so much.
Why study English literature?
There are many reasons, but one of the best things about an English literature degree is that it draws on many diverse skills and ways of thinking critically.
This makes English literature one of the most versatile subjects you can study, creating a wealth of career opportunities.
This English literature degree will set you up to pursue careers in fields where communication and critical thinking matter.
We outline some of these below, but employers in many more industries recognise the value of the transferable skills you’ll gain by choosing to study English literature.
Your CV will demonstrate:
Take a look at our blog to find out more about the jobs you can get with an English literature degree .
The major problems of today are all based around the interpretation of texts – how do we identify ‘fake news’ and misinformation?
How do people persuade others of a point of view?
How have writers imagined the end of the world, and how do these narratives shape reactions to global dangers?
Being able to read between the lines has never been more important, and an English literature degree gives you the tools to do exactly that.
Dr Christopher Pittard, Senior Lecturer in English Literature
You could also study at postgraduate level.
Roles our previous English literature graduates have gone onto include:
Hear from BA (Hons) English Literature graduate, Sophie Stevens, who's since embarked on postgraduate study and the British Council - Teaching English Abroad scheme.
Read Sophie's story
After your second or third year of study, you can choose to do a paid work placement year in the UK or overseas.
It’s fantastic for your CV and will really help you stand out when applying for jobs after graduation.
You can choose take part in a study abroad experience with one of our partner universities:
You could also secure funding from the Turing Scheme to study abroad at one of our partner universities.
The English Literature course at the University of Portsmouth has been the best learning experience I've ever had.
I was continually offered new and unique literary perspectives from expert lecturers who gave me the upmost support and encouragement throughout.
Chloe Buchanan, BA (Hons) English Literature and winner of Best Academic Performance in English Literature and the Best Dissertation in English Literature, Graduation 2023
Explore Portsmouth's rich literary heritage and contemporary literature scene through an interactive map and blog
Our blog explores the literary depths of Portsmouth, featuring local and famous authors and their relationships with the city.
On this course, you won't have to sit any exams.
Instead, you'll submit coursework, assignments and presentations to demonstrate your knowledge.
Take a look at how you'll be assessed on this course.
You’ll investigate ideas of the body as ‘natural’ by examining its role in culturally constructed ideas of gender, race and sexuality.
You’ll explore how the body can be seen as the site of both conformity and resistance, identification and otherness.
Get an introduction to theoretical approaches to reading the body in literature, such as gender theory and posthumanism, as well as key terms and concepts, including queer, abject and grotesque.
You’ll complete the module viewing the body as a lightning rod for questions of belonging, power and social change.
Immerse yourself in world literature classics and modern texts written in English or translated from other languages.
Analyse stories that address shared human concerns like environment, power, ethnicity and gender.
You’ll discover how reading diverse voices fosters a spirit of intellectual curiosity, and discuss and debate literature’s role in an increasingly connected world.
In this module, you'll dive into theories and debates challenging assumptions about artistic quality.
Through key texts spanning from the 19th century to the present day, you'll uncover the contextual forces and power structures influencing critics.
You’ll shed new light on popular fictions' literary functions and cultural impacts, and sharpen critical thinking skills to form educated opinions on what compelling storytelling means to different communities.
You'll explore fundamental assumptions about what it is to read, write and interpret texts, using select literary texts to examine the links between literature and theory, and to produce increasingly critical and complex readings.
This module will help you get to grips with concepts and ideas that will be crucial to your study of literature throughout your degree.
You’ll analyse diverse literary prizes – from the Booker to the Women’s Prize and beyond – and debate the complex criteria applied in judging literary value.
This module gives you access to the commercial world of literary publishing and prizes, offering you the chance to develop professional skills and plenty of opportunity for literary analysis
You’ll use case studies and exercises to see how research develops from initial ideas to finished works.
You’ll review resources and arguments to improve your research skills, and work with other students to refine your dissertation proposal through feedback and peer review.
This module will also help enhance your employability skills through bespoke activities and assessment.
You’ll discover how literature draws on our modern anxieties around climate change, as well as our conflicted relationship with nature, and helps us address these issues.
By investigating the methods and motivations behind ecocritical approaches in literature, you’ll consider the ways in which ecocriticism, ecofeminism, and postcolonial ecocriticism can be used to focus on issues of ecocrisis, environmental justice, sovereignty and power.
There’s also a strong focus on gender, identity, the body, and the relationship between humans and environmental others.
You'll develop a research project which can take many forms, depending on the aims and focus of the dissertation.
As an extended project requiring significant levels of critical engagement with subject knowledge, independent research and initiative, ethical research practice, and project management, this module enhances many key areas of knowledge and critical skills.
I chose to study English Literature at the University of Portsmouth because it offered modules I’d never seen before like Crime Writing and courses on contemporary novels.
Amy Thomson, BA (Hons) English Literature student
There are no exams on this course.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your English Literature degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 9 hours a week.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-literature-with-history:
Explore literature from classics to the contemporary, and discover how history has shaped – and been shaped – by written works on this degree course.
You'll become an expert in reading, analysing and discussing literature, and explore British and global history.
If you are applying for the foundation year, please use the application box above.
If you are not applying for the foundation year and wish to start this course in 2025, please contact us .
Portsmouth is the perfect place to study literature and history.
Charles Dickens was born here, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle called these streets home, and Rudyard Kipling’s work was inspired by his early years here.
Plus, it's a city that's played a major role in British and world history – you'll find influences of the past throughout, from Portsea Castle to the Historic Dockyard.
On this BA (Hons) English Literature with History degree, you’ll examine literature from classics to the contemporary, and discover how history has shaped – and been shaped – by written works.
You’ll emerge with a skill set that’s sought after for careers in the arts, publishing, media and as a historian.
The critical thinking, reading and analytical abilities you'll develop will also set you up for postgraduate study or roles in areas like teaching and politics.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) English Literature or the BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study English Literature in depth and add History as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) English Literature with History degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) English Literature and BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) English Literature with History with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Literature with History.
An English literature and history degree is a great foundation for a career in the arts.
Employers also value the sophisticated analytical and presentational skills you'll develop as a graduate of an English and history course.
Our Careers and Employability service can help you find a job or course that puts your skills to work.
After you leave the University, you can get help, advice and support for up to 5 years as you advance in your career.
After your second year of this English and history degree, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Previous students have completed work placements with organisations such as museums and local schools.
We can help you identify placements, internships, voluntary roles and freelancing opportunities that will complement your studies and build your portfolio.
You'll explore early modern Europe's complex world through everyday objects, analysing diverse artefacts - shoes, monuments, religious objects, food - and how they offer new perspectives for our understanding of the past and the present.
You'll consider how the study of objects can lead to new interpretations of historical narratives such as 'the consumer revolution', the development of a global economy, the emergence of new forms of inequality, and changing understandings of public and private.
You'll unearth the multiple lives and 'afterlives' of objects, engaging with debates about their significance and importance in heritage contexts in the 21st century, with access to some of the rich material culture available within the city, including the Mary Rose Museum.
You will look at what a wide range of artefacts, from automobiles and advertising to music and television, can tell us about the changes and challenges that faced ordinary people in twentieth-century Europe.
These cultural artefacts not only changed the ways in which people perceived and understood the world around them, they also provide the means to explore the profound and transformative changes wrought by the destruction and renewal of Europe's turbulent century.
Led by a subject specialist, you'll study how the practice and ideas related to empires and/or identities shaped the lives of people in a specific time period, and how they themselves resisted or negotiated the impositions of forms of inequality.
Example topics include:
The Opium War, 1839-1842
Explore how two empires – Great Britain and China – came into direct confrontation for the first time in the nineteenth century and how the military campaign has been remembered by successive regimes in generations afterward.
Reformers, Rebels and Refugees: Religious Identities in Elizabethan England
Investigate how a range of people supported, resisted or conformed to a period of profound religious and political change, and how identities and communities were formed and reformed in late 16th century England.
Racism and Anti-Racism in Post-war Britain
Discover how questions of migration, race, identity, and belonging were being understood and negotiated as Britain transitioned away from its role as an imperial power.
Examine the various ways in which people experienced racism, and as well as the myriad means by which this discrimination was challenged.
The Making of the German Nation: Germany during the Nineteenth and Twentieth Century
Examine the fluid concept of German national identity across a turbulent history spanning war, empire, division and crisis.
You’ll discover how Germans defined themselves and their nation from the early 19th century through Nazism's ascent and the difficult rebuilding of broken post-war societies.
These cultures reflected perspectives on the world and changing values, revealing important insights into the hopes, fears, and identities of people and society.
Many forms of popular culture have substantial historical roots - including literature and music - whilst others are very modern - such as film and television.
You'll start by studying two topics, before deciding to specialise in one of these for your final assessment.
Example topics may include:
Cinema-Going in Wartime Britain
Explore how cinema functioned as both a form of propaganda and escapism in wartime Britain, and examine the ways that class, gender and national identities were challenged, negotiated and reinforced on and off the screen.
Accidents and Safety in Britain, c.1850-1970
Examine how accidents and risks tell us about the ways modern British society was structured, including people’s day-to-day concerns, how they lived their lives and how aspects such as class and gender had an impact on people’s safety.
Magic and Modernity: Supernatural Britain, 1800-1920
Investigate the changing nature of magic, the occult and supernatural beliefs in the nineteenth century.
This history of the modern supernatural causes us to rethink how we view Victorian and Edwardian society and culture.
Christopher.Pittard@port.ac.uk
School of Area Studies, Sociology, History, Politics, and Literature
Course fees for 2026/27 will be updated shortly.
If you've already completed part of this course with us or another university and would like to apply for the second or third year with us in September 2025, please contact us .
You need to choose BA (Hons) English Literature or BA (Hons) English Literature with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study English Literature in depth and add History as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) English Literature with History degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study History too.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) English Literature degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature with History in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature with History with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-english-literature-with-media-studies:
Become an expert in reading, analysing and discussing the written works and media that inspire you on this English Literature with Media Studies degree course.
Study English and media in a city rich in cultural legacy.
Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle called these streets home, and Rudyard Kipling’s work was inspired by his early years in the city.
If you're interested in how literature and media influences individuals and societies, from fiction, newspapers and television, to social networks, this English and media degree is ideal.
On this BA (Hons) English Literature and Media Studies degree, you’ll examine classic and contemporary literature along with television and social media, and become an expert in reading, analysing and discussing the written works and media that inspire you.
You’ll emerge with a skill set that’s sought after in careers in the arts, publishing and media.
You’ll study English Literature in depth and add Media Studies as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies degree when you finish the course.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies.
A degree in English literature and media is a great foundation for a career in the arts, broadcasting or publishing.
Graduate employers also value the sophisticated analytical and presentational skills graduates develop on English and media degrees.
After you leave the University, you can get help, advice and support for up to five years as you advance in your career.
Nels Hylton graduated with an English Literature degree.
He's now a Presenter at BBC Radio 1.
Find out what it's like to work in the media industry and how the skills Nels learnt during his degree with us have helped him in his career.
Nels: I love doing radio.
That drives me to get better every single day.
I graduated from the University in Portsmouth with a degree in English Literature.
Before university, I always wanted to be involved in radio to some aspect and when I got to university, that really solidified exactly that this is what I wanted to do.
University definitely taught me so many different life lessons.
The main one is storytelling.
Being able to talk about a piece of literature or a book and to talk about a piece of music on Radio 1, the skills are pretty much exactly the same.
Being able to block out the stage fright and articulate to a group of people has been something that I've used throughout my career.
The most important part outside of the course that led me to where I am today was probably PureFM, the student radio station in Portsmouth.
I spent so much time in there just working on radio bits and having fun with my friends.
Those are some of the best memories I have of radio, and I'm super grateful for the opportunities they gave me and allowed me to put that passion to good use and eventually make my way here.
When you're at university, it's very easy to become isolated very quickly but, the University of Portsmouth has so many great support services and the counselling service which I use to pastoral care and chaplaincy.
If I could give any advice to any other students potentially struggling, go to these services and ask them for help because it really helped me hang in there and fight to finish.
Being the first black man to do the Radio 1 Rock Show was such a pivotal moment.
Making other people believe that just because they were born a certain way that they can do anything that they put their mind to.
I really want to do this until the wheels fall off.
I'd probably say that the biggest impact is that it taught me that I can juggle a degree and juggle interning and sport and radio.
There were times where I wanted to quit.
When it was all said and done, I felt a real sense of accomplishment, the opportunity to prove myself and do whatever I put my mind to, that is the impact that Portsmouth had on me.
After your second year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Previous students have been on placements to:
By examining case studies from different time periods, you'll learn about the techniques used in various countries to control the flow of information.
Through theoretical perspectives and case studies, you'll analyse the roles of journalists, politicians, and policymakers in informing or misinforming the public.
This is where you study English Literature in depth and add Media Studies as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study Media Studies too.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) English Literature with Media Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-entrepreneurship-and-business:
Learn how to spot business opportunities and bring new products to market.
This course is for you whether have a business idea or not.
Modern business needs creative thinkers — so we’ll give you the tools you need to bring value to the corporate world, or help you get your own business off the ground.
N150,                      N155
Explore business and entrepreneurship in one of the UK’s most entrepreneurial cities as you discover core business topics and access University startup support.
If you already have a new business idea, we’ll help you develop it with practical business modules and direct support from our dedicated start-up team.
If not, this course will give you the skills you need to support and grow the businesses you work for.
Organisations of all sizes need passionate people with an entrepreneurial mindset to foster creativity and manage innovation every day.
That’s why many of our graduates go on to apply their skills in managing innovation, new products and business growth for existing organisations.
You’ll develop a strong foundation of knowledge in key areas of business such as marketing, managing people, and operations management.
You’ll learn to spot opportunities, develop your entrepreneurial skills, and explore how to create value by developing new products, as well as learning the processes you need to bring them to market.
If you choose to do an industry placement after your second or third year, you could complete a paid placement with an existing organisation or undertake a self employed placement year and develop your own business with support from our Placement Club and startup support.
Whether you want to run your own company or to develop your business and management skills to excel in an existing organisation, this course gives you the knowledge, skills and experience you need to succeed.
My favourite part of the course was the real life experience gained working with clients, instead of just working from textbooks and case studies.
Benjamin Thompson, BA Business Management and Entrepreneurship
We have partnered with the CMI so that you can gain a value added professional qualification alongside your degree.
Students on our BA Entrepreneurship and Business degree can be awarded a CMI Level 5 Certificate in Management and Leadership upon successful completion of their degree programme.
Portsmouth is one of the most entrepreneurial cities in the UK and as a University we're actively supporting entrepreneurship within the city and the surrounding region.
When you join us as a student you'll be part of a much wider community of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial thinking.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Business with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Business.
Students who really benefit fully from this course are open-minded, enjoy getting involved in real, practical tasks and are open to challenge.
You don't need to have a business idea or necessarily want to run your own business to get a place on this course.
If you do have an idea we'll do everything we can to help it grow, but mostly we're looking for changemakers, people who want to bring change to whatever working environment they're in.
They saw I had big ideas and passion and they offered me a place studying business right away.
That personal approach was so important; I knew I'd made the right choice.
Vincent Pericard, BA (Hons) Business and Enterprise Development graduate
100% of graduates from this course are in work or further study 15 months after graduation according to the latest HESA Graduate Outcome Study.
Several of our students set up their own business during the course, or go on to run their own business after graduation.
Many others, however, go on to apply their skills in existing businesses, particularly in the areas of product development and marketing.
Post-Covid the business development skills you'll learn on this course are likely to be more needed than ever.
The Harvard Business Review recently wrote that:
"Companies seeking to emerge from the crisis in a stronger position must develop a systematic understanding of changing habits.....they must highlight anomalies and challenge mental models, revamp their business models and invest their capital dynamically."
Alumnus Ed Adams graduated in 2017 and is now a Director of E-commerce at his own company.
Ed discusses building an enterprise society and how the Faculty of Business and Law enabled him to network with alumni in Silicon Valley and helped him to start his own successful business.
My name is Ed Adams and I am the Director of my own company, I'm an Amazon seller.
I sell Amazon FBA, which is fulfilled by Amazon.
I see an exciting product that I really want to push onto the Amazon platform and see the success of products.
Finishing A-levels, I really wanted to get a year out and just go and see the world but I was really keen to come back and do an entrepreneurial course and looking around the UK, Portsmouth just had the perfect course.
In my course of studying business, enterprise and development, I bumped into Zoe Dann, who is the course leader.
We're there discussing what I'd like to see in my three years at the University of Portsmouth.
I said I'd really like to have an enterprise society.
She said there was one but it's all kind of come to a close, why don't you start one?
I think it was in that same conversation, she kind of finished it off saying, why don't you build a society and take the society to Silicon Valley?
Then that kind of set the foundations, I guess, to what it became.
So there's tons of alumni all over the place.
Using LinkedIn, we were able to link up with those guys in the Silicon Valley area.
We made appointments with the guys and that kind of led to structuring these interviews with them.
We recorded the interviews with these Portsmouth Alumni.
I looked up to these people.
Speaking to ex-Facebook alumni people that have worked pretty much next to Mark Zuckerberg's office and kind of seeing that their journey from the University of Portsmouth all the way to Silicon Valley and beyond a passion was lit.
To have my business now and to have it up and running and to see it being successful, I think that's credit to the university for putting me on that  path to where I am now.
I think that the University of Portsmouth was there and I was able to lean on those resources, and that was always a bit of guidance and they were really willing to help me get what I needed.
The thing that really motivates me is just to be kind of my own boss, to really be an entrepreneur in my own remit and drive my own business forward.
It gets me up in the morning.
It's my passion.
This is my drive.
(Data sourced from HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey)
You could also choose to continue your studies at postgraduate level .
I received the annual Shaping Portsmouth Award for my University consultancy project, in which I redesigned the website for Shaping Portsmouth based on research and client requirements.
I was delighted to receive the award and see them use our design on their website to this day.
Charles Oduk II, BA (Hons) in Business Management and Entrepreneurship
You can choose to spend this optional extra year developing your own business with the help of the University, or you can take a paid placement at another business.
If you do have a business idea you'll get start-up support from our dedicated team.
We organise free workshops, enterprise clinics and speaker events.
We can give you advice and help you apply for funding.
Learn more about our start-up support
We have more than 20 experienced business entrepreneurs who can help you develop your business idea and guide you from their real-life experience.
Many of the entrepreneurs are also involved with this course as speakers and mentors.
Meet our entrepreneurs in residence
As an international student you can apply for a graduate visa after your studies if you want to stay in the UK and work.
If you're interested in setting up your own business in the UK after graduation and you're on a Tier 4 visa you can also apply for a UK Start-up Visa.
This allows you to stay in the UK after graduation and set-up your business here.
We're an endorsing institution for these visas.
Learn more about the UK Start-up Visa
Complete activities to unlock your potential, clarify your strengths and address your key development areas.
You’ll build a career-focused portfolio that showcases your course learnings and key messages.
You'll learn to evaluate the opportunities available to you, empowering you to navigate uncertainty as an adaptable, ethical and life-long learner.
You'll finish this module prepared to take advantage of emerging opportunities.
In your second or third year you can choose to study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, Asia, Australia or North America.
Learn more about study abroad
Our teaching focus on this course is very practical; we want you to learn by getting involved in applied learning.
There's a great emphasis therefore on industry case studies, live client work, and new project development.
Assessment depends on the modules that you take, but assessment methods are likely to include:
Professor of Innovation Management
Paul.Trott@port.ac.uk
Programme Lead (Strategy and Innovation)
Nicholas.Ford@port.ac.uk
To start BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Business in 2026, apply through UCAS.
Apply now though UCAS
To start BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Business with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-design:
Develop your creative ideas and shape fashion's present and future on our Fashion Design degree course.
Deliver authentic, imaginative work that pushes the boundaries of what fashion design means now and in the future.
W231,                      W232
Bring your creative ideas to life using industry-level facilities on our multi-award-winning BA (Hons) Fashion Design degree course.
You’ll grow into a confident, knowledgeable fashion professional via our teaching approach—combining fashion and textile design and encouraging innovation, self-awareness, and critical thinking.
Your unique strengths are recognised and valued in all you do on this course.
You'll develop communication, leadership, and collaboration skills through creative exchange and enterprise projects, and build a deep knowledge of traditional and digital making skills using industry-leading CLO3D.
Vital sustainable and ethical design principles and innovative research methods underpin your learning and creativity.
At Portsmouth, you’ll be able to deliver authentic, imaginative work that pushes the boundaries of what fashion and textile design means now and in the future.
Master traditional and innovative fashion design methods, including pattern-cutting, fashion illustration, silkscreen print, embroidery, and constructed textiles and biomaterials
Dr Elaine Igoe explains what's great about our BA (Hons) Fashion Design course.
The ultimate aim of this course is to develop really well-rounded, ambitious, highly skilled and highly creative fashion and textile designers, ready to make an impact on the industry.
I've learnt to pattern cut, I've learnt to drape, I've learnt to print, I've learn how to use the 3D printer, and the fabric printing.
I never would have had the opportunity to do that without being here.
Everything seems more attainable now with all the skills that I have and especially with the placement year.
I've got a lot more confidence in making clothes and obviously without this course it seems impossible to be able to make your own collection.
The best thing about studying Fashion and Textiles at the University of Portsmouth is the sense of creative community that we have here, the way that the staff and students work together.
All applicants will be asked to provide a digital portfolio of work.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our BA (Hons) Fashion Design portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Fashion Design with a Foundation year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Fashion Design.
UCAS points - 32 tariff points at A level, or equivalent ( calculate your UCAS points )
English language requirements
English language proficiency at a minimum of IELTS band 5.5 with no component score below 5.5.
We also accept other standard English tests and qualifications , as long as they meet the minimum requirements of your course.
Use our screen printing and screen coating rooms for your graphic materials, artwork, and fabric printing, with a host of traditional and digital equipment.
Learn to use industrial flatbed sewing machines and other specialist equipment in our sewing workshop.
Create, design, and work with textiles and fashion in our Fabric Workshop.
We proudly present the BA (Hons) Fashion Design graduates of 2023.
Our graduate showreel was presented at Graduate Fashion Week.
The film—utilising Unreal Engine—was developed with the Centre for Creative and Immersive eXtended Reality (CCIXR) and fuses 360 video, photogrammetry , and smart stage technology to produce an imaginary world to lose yourself in.
Various clips of models, in outfits tailored by Fashion and Textile Design students, posing in front of different virtual screens.
Chilled electronic music plays in background.
[UNIVERSITY OF PORTSMOUTH
BA (HONS) FASHION & TEXTILE DESIGN
UNIVERSITY OF PORTSMOUTH DESIGNERS
Ijeoma Janet Anyim Amy Barnes Erin Black Shayla Sakora Sarah Davis Felicia Dobreva Sophie Lauren Edwards Hannah Fisk Isobel Jobbins Naomi Kirk Jess Knowles Jocelyn Lucky Natalia Morawska Tassia Murray Lucie Poole-Walsh Ellie Powell Emelia Rees Danielle Saavedra Bethany Trott Megan Wild Sophie Ann Wilson
MODELS
Profile Models @profilemodels Kia Larilahti Sophia Spark Jessie Roberts Rosie Okotcha Michelle Majoni @micha6ll Bradley Ball @bradbebrad Reece Donnison @reece.jay Cianna-Rai Littlefair-Parker @ciannarai Beth Strickland @bethjstrickland Menghan Chen @himissyoghurt Shayla Sakora @shayla.sakora
MAKE-UP ARTISTS
Ruby Harvey @ruby_harvey_designs Calum Kay @calum.k.mua Imogen Hackett @imogen.darcie
SEBASTIAN PROFESSIONAL CULT TEAM
Emily Nelson – @emilynelson_hoc Darren Smith – @darren0496 Jenni Stewart – @jenniestewart_wonderland Leah Udall – @hairbyleah Alexandra Wood – @alexandrahair_x
FRANCESCO GROUP TEAM
Nina Khosravi Molly Constanza Cleo Johnson Lauren Clarke Naomi Francis Amy Sultan Mel Clements
Dom Capel @domcapel Director Lara Johnson Lifestyle Ltd Seven Over Eight Productions Ltd Rich Windle @palefountain @wellahairuki @sebastian_cultteamuki @sebastianpro_official
PRODUCTION
Rachel Homewood Victoria Jowett Noorin Khamisani Julian Roberts Susan Noble Alex Counsell Sam Birmingham Clifford Phillips Dr Penny Chalk Harry Salter Elis Talvet Adrianna Stuzyna
IN COLLABORATION WITH
[University of Portsmouth Centre for Creative and Immersive XR – Logo]
[Professional Sebastian – Logo]
[Instagram icon – UoPFashionTextiles]
[Facebook icon – UoPFashionTextiles]
[YouTube icon – UoP BA (Hons) Fashion and Textile Design]
UCAS W231 port.ac.uk]
Follow BA (Hons) Fashion Design on Instagram
Our collaborative and project-orientated course will give you the skills to become highly employable.
Our graduates have worked across design, marketing, communications and commerce in areas such as:
Our graduates have worked with some of the biggest names in fashion and major retailers, including:
Lauren Chivers graduated in 2018 with a Fashion and Textile degree from the University of Portsmouth.
She's now a self-employed fashion designer.
Find out what Lauren's role entails and how she’s applying the skills she learnt during her time at Portsmouth.
I'm Lauren Chivers and I'm a self-employed fashion designer.
I studied on the Fashion and Textile Course at the University of Portsmouth.
The career highlight so far for me is starting my own business as it's something that I never thought I'd have been able to do.
My passion for fashion and textiles first started in primary school when I joined a crosstitch club.
What piqued my interest in sewing was being hands on, creative and actually producing something.
I really liked being able to take something home to show my mum and my nan.
If I could sum up my time at the University of Portsmouth in one word, it would be exciting because there was endless opportunities.
I got to experience so many different things, meet so many different people and see so many different aspects of the industry.
The main opportunities I took whilst I was at university was the placement year.
During my placement year, I started off going to a designer called Holly Fulton in East London.
We'd go out sourcing fabrics, doing some pattern cutting.
Anything and everything that they needed help with, which then led to me going to Paul Smith.
My experience is that London and Paris Fashion Week were probably the highlight of my placement year because I'd seen the work and the progress of the collection, so it was really good seeing it as an end result and everyone's relief and celebrations afterwards for all the hard work that had gone into it.
I think my experience overall helped me realise what I wanted to do in the future.
Definitely more of an attainable career choice now.
Sustainability as a whole is becoming such a big thing everywhere, but especially in the fashion industry.
So part of me for starting my own business was using everything that I have.
If you have a bit of fabric making a dress from it, then using what's left over to turn into accessories and smaller items that match so that nothing's going to waste or very little is going to waste.
The future for me, I'm going to London College of Fashion to study on the MA fashion futures course, which is all about sustainability in the fashion industry.
It could either lead me into a role in the industry that helps make other brands more sustainable, or even in the future, teaching other people about sustainability in the fashion industry.
You can also venture into freelancing, or set up and run your own business with help from the University Startup Team.
If you're interested in setting up your own business while you study, you can get support on this course from the Entrepreneurs in Residence programme.
Our Entrepreneurs in Residence are experienced business professionals who work with us to deliver group workshops and 1-to-1 drop-in clinics to help you plan and market your business idea.
You can do an optional work placement to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Placements are also a great way to build upon your existing skills and knowledge for your final-year studies, and can make you attractive to employers after you graduate.
You can work with a company, or go self-employed and start up your own business with other fellow students or by yourself.
Whatever you decide, you'll get support from our Creative Careers team.
Previous students have completed work placements at designers such as:
The favourite part of my course is being able to focus on what you are passionate about and show that in your work.
Our course doesn't have a set style that you have to follow like some other universities do, so you can really express yourself as much as you want!
Sanna Karajalainen, BA (Hons) Fashion and Textile Design graduate
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Fashion Design
You'll get to work directly with various fabrics, getting to know their characteristics and technical aspects.
We'll teach you how to sketch fashion figures and detail your designs.
In our studio projects, you'll enhance your skills in pattern drafting, making garments, and designing textiles.
You'll also delve into the history and modern methods of fashion through research.
Learn how to set objectives, organise your tasks, and meet deadlines, honing your professional skills.
By the end of the module, you'll have a strong foundation in the technical, creative, and research aspects needed to shine in the fashion and textiles industry.
You'll explore drawing as a research method, you'll conceptualise, sample and refine techniques aligned to your vision.
Understanding historical and cultural contexts, you'll follow professional design processes to create coordinated designs.
You'll learn to communicate ideas effectively while gaining essential abilities to craft innovative work.
You’ll explore professional software to learn digital printing, pattern illustration, and image manipulation techniques.
We’ll help you improve your portfolio, guiding you to design a forward-thinking digital collection.
Work with others to share your modern ideas about the global influences on fashion’s future.
After completing this module, you’ll be equipped to refresh old ways of designing with a mix of digital and traditional methods, addressing what today’s customers want.
Be a part of setting the trend in digital fashion and textiles.
By analysing innovations and designer case studies, you’ll gain critical insights into the evolution and disruption happening in the world of fashion.
You’ll develop an online platform demonstrating your learning while strengthening your design abilities.
With enriched context on roles, processes and creative opportunities, this module enables you to locate personal growth areas within this dynamic sector.
You’ll analyse global supply chain alongside circular economy principles and you’ll be equipped to devise recommendations advancing sustainability - whether production transparency or material innovation.
Through persuasive writing geared to shifting consumer behaviours, the module enables you to mobilise insight for positive impact - preparing for advocacy or editorial roles aligned with industry progress.
You'll decide on appropriate materials, methods and processes for your designs, learning how to apply skills and knowledge in various techniques and processes relevant to fashion and textile design.
You'll be introduced to design futures and forecasting methods as you research and develop original and creative responses to a brief through experimentation and sampling.
You'll enhance your knowledge in research, project management, problem-solving, and critical thinking as you take on practical challenges relevant to the fashion industry.
We'll encourage you to innovate, collaborate, and push your creative boundaries in response to a live brief.
You'll develop practical skills and innovative thinking, enabling you to create a resolved body of work.
You'll also design and develop promotional materials that align with current market trends and with the context of the live brief.
You’ll get into theory, look at real-life examples, and creative ideas from various fields.
Try out different ways to express your ideas, from drawing to mapping to building models.
You’ll work alone and with others to explore themes in projects you choose.
This module gives you the freedom to pursue your interests through both research and practical work.
You’ll learn skills you can use in many areas by handling information and sharing ideas about designing spaces of all sizes.
You'll explore and refine visual presentation techniques across various media, designing and producing portfolio pages for your Major Project and additional design briefs.
You'll also create a professional CV and promotional assets, such as fashion film and photography for sharing on relevant platforms, and prepare for the promotion and public exhibition of your work in the annual shows.
The first step will be to develop a significant and relevant theme that aligns with the current social and cultural trends worldwide.
You will conduct extensive research, including visual and written sources, to develop a unique creative direction.
The module will explore the history, society, economy, and ethics of the fashion and textiles industry.
You will use critical thinking and reflection to incorporate your idea into current trends and more significant concepts.
This will help you establish a strong, culturally rich foundation for your designs.
By the end of this module, you will have the confidence to pursue your interests and perspectives backed by thorough research.
This will enable you to showcase your vision as a new designer.
You will put in a lot of hard work, including toiling (making trial versions), sampling, and experimenting with new techniques to improve and refine your designs.
Through self-directed learning and collaboration with others, you will learn advanced techniques to develop your initial ideas into a finished toile (a preliminary version of a garment).
You will then evaluate your designs carefully and make changes as needed to ensure that they are of a professional standard and reflect your unique artistic style.
This module is designed to help you develop your focus, specialised knowledge, and self-management skills, which are essential for success in the fashion and textiles industry.
Through lectures and workshops, you'll examine historical and theoretical approaches to practice-based research.
Working with lecturers, you'll develop a portfolio of exploratory work and written content to inform your final project.
You will refine and complete your designs by creating trial versions, testing different options, and carefully evaluating the results.
You'll create a preliminary collection by using appropriate materials and techniques, including technical details.
This will showcase your creativity and skills in project management, collaboration, and entrepreneurial thinking.
During this module, you will learn independently, set your own goals, manage your work, and meet deadlines, even if changes need to be made.
This is your chance to combine your passion, resourcefulness, and industry knowledge to elevate your work to a professional level.
By doing so, you will stand out in the field.
There's an emphasis on developing your design and creative skills, challenging your creativity and encouraging participation in shaping the future of the fashion and textiles industry.
Programme Lead (Art and Design)
Rachel.Homewood@port.ac.uk
School of Architecture, Art and Design
Lara.Torres@port.ac.uk
You'll need to pay extra printing costs of around £100–£600 on portfolio work.
Material and production costs are around £100–£500 a year.
Any study trips are optional and you will be expected to pay full cost.
Optional study trips abroad will cost in the region of £200–£800.
UK trips, where offered, will be £50–£150.
To start BA (Hons) Fashion Design in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Fashion Design with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – W232
our institution code – P80
Apply direct for September 2026 entry .
Tour our campus, facilities and halls of residence
Speak with lecturers and chat with our students
Get information about where to live, how to fund your studies and which clubs and societies to join

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-film-production:
Shape the future of film on our BA (Hons) Film Production degree.
Develop your creative voice, master the art and business of filmmaking from directing and cinematography to editing and visual effects, and build a standout portfolio that prepares you for a dynamic career in film.
PP31,                      PP33
112-120 UCAS points from A levels or equivalent
Our BA (Hons) Film Production degree—accredited by ScreenSkills Select—will shape you into the filmmaker, cinematographer, editor, and special effects producer the film industry craves.
Master the practical and business elements of film production.
You’ll attract potential employers by exhibiting your films at national screening events.
Graduates have created indie films, joined Marvel, Maverick, and Pinewood Studios.
They've also worked on critically acclaimed titles Black Mirror, Wonder Woman 1984, and No Time to Die.
Here’s your chance to follow in their footsteps.
Depending on the modules you choose during your second and third years, you'll graduate with one of the following awards:
This course is accredited by ScreenSkills Select, a professional body for the screen industry.
All ScreenSkills Select-accredited courses must show the highest level of quality and relevance to the industry.
This ensures you'll learn the knowledge and skills relevant to your future career and assures potential employers that your degree is relevant to the screen industry.
This accreditation also gives you access to exclusive benefits such as employability training events, scholarships and bursaries.
Animated ident for BA (Hons) Film Production, showing the letters ‘BAFP’ forming an old-style film camera.
A montage of scenes from selected student films played against upbeat indie-pop music.
00:00:10.035 --> 00:00:10.495 Are we rolling?
00:00:10.685 --> 00:00:13.135 Yeah.
Good to go.
Good.
This is gonna
00:00:35.195 --> 00:00:35.775 not good.
00:01:08.885 --> 00:01:12.135 It's a tale of two lovers divided by time
00:01:12.555 --> 00:01:15.375 And reunited by The strength of their
00:01:15.375 --> 00:01:16.375 Love.
It's
00:01:16.375 --> 00:01:18.055 Fits virtue you.
00:01:18.275 --> 00:01:19.535 You should have seen him.
00:01:20.315 --> 00:01:21.655 Oh, I've never seen someone push
00:01:21.655 --> 00:01:23.055 themselves as hard as he does.
00:01:23.435 --> 00:01:27.215 And is it too much that you lose a part of your life just
00:01:27.215 --> 00:01:28.655 to be a part of somebody else's?
00:01:29.115 --> 00:01:30.495 You starting our new life now,
00:01:31.275 --> 00:01:33.975 and maybe we alone all allow us to do that.
00:01:34.565 --> 00:01:36.415 Everybody needs a purpose,
00:01:37.335 --> 00:01:38.615 a light at the end of the tunnel.
00:01:38.885 --> 00:01:41.135 Sometimes it's hard to see the Christmas lights
00:01:41.355 --> 00:01:42.535 and all the ducks,
00:01:42.875 --> 00:01:44.495 but that doesn't mean that they don't exist.
00:01:44.885 --> 00:01:46.695 Keep going.
You'll find
00:01:46.995 --> 00:01:48.295 You turned around and said that
00:01:48.925 --> 00:01:51.935 life would get better Life.
Life is for living.
00:01:52.445 --> 00:01:54.455 It's, It's what it's about.
00:01:54.995 --> 00:01:58.935 All I have better wished is for you to achieve the life
00:01:58.935 --> 00:02:00.535 that you desire for yourself.
00:02:01.045 --> 00:02:02.895 Happiness must be sought,
00:02:04.475 --> 00:02:07.295 So Go out and seek it.
00:02:07.805 --> 00:02:12.735 Make it your, make it your superpower.
Write your own story.
00:02:13.275 --> 00:02:14.455 I'm so proud of where you've come
00:02:14.455 --> 00:02:16.895 from and where you're going next.
00:02:17.335 --> 00:02:20.655 I feel peace and I feel love
00:02:22.405 --> 00:02:26.895 Because Of Angelica, because of Carrie, because of you.
00:02:27.675 --> 00:02:30.055 And I'm gonna be all right.
Yeah.
Thank you.
00:02:31.255 --> 00:02:34.335 I wanted to show you how much you helped me change this.
00:02:34.975 --> 00:02:36.935 I used to think you were completely rational,
00:02:38.235 --> 00:02:40.455 but I have to say, you make much more sense now.
00:02:40.755 --> 00:02:42.215 We kind of left ourselves behind
00:02:42.675 --> 00:02:44.255 and we entered into a world
00:02:45.225 --> 00:02:47.055 where we have to be the best of us.
00:02:47.875 --> 00:02:49.615 We all got our happy ending.
112-120 UCAS points ( calculate your UCAS points )
A relevant qualification or experience in film/video is required.
Applicants without relevant qualifications will be asked to provide a portfolio to support their application.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our Film Production creative portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Film Production with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Film Production.
Typical offers for BA (Hons) Film Production with Foundation Year
I've really enjoyed my journey in film production at the University of Portsmouth.
Starting here in the UK has given me another angle to know this world.
Kunwen Chen, BA (Hons) Film Production 2021 graduate
Our suite includes non-linear editing software Avid Media Composer and DaVinci Resolve, and specialist hardware for efficient film editing.
Learn the skills you need to work in video/audio production and broadcasting and get involved in our student-led TV channel, CCI TV.
With our Holosys™-powered Volumetric Video Studio, you can capture stunning 3D footage of moving objects for your next XR project.
You'll have plenty of career routes when you finish this course.
Many of our graduates have found success in a variety of roles, destinations and productions – with some working on the sets of blockbuster films and award-winning TV series.
Others have also been nationally recognised in the film and TV industry.
In 2020 and 2023, our student production teams won prestigious Royal Television Society (RTS) awards in the category of Best Student Comedy Drama and Entertainment.
They've completed their placements either self-employed or with well-known names, including:
Graduates have worked on commercial and indie titles such as:
Alumna Shifra Kirby initially planned to work in law but changed her mind at the last minute for film production.
In 2018, three months after graduating, she secured a dream role doing something completely different to what she envisaged just a few years ago.
Listen to Shifra's journey to a creative career she loves.
Want to gain some valuable industry experience and increase your employment potential when you graduate?
By doing a work placement after your second or third year, you can do exactly that.
You can work for a company or organisation, or set up and run your own business – either with peers or on your own.
No matter what you choose, you can get full support from our Creative Careers team.
Our in-faculty Creative Careers team has extensive recruitment experience and knows the creative sector well, making it easier for students to find placements within the creative industries .
They can guide you through every step of the application process, including:
The team will continue to give you support throughout your placement year.
Former students have interned in various roles, including:
Cristian Ionut Necula, BA (Hons) Film Production 2021 graduate
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Film Production
Learn how to meet the demands of taking on a bachelor's degree at university Find out more about our foundation years with ICP
Through hands-on workshops, you will learn how to tell stories in both fiction and non-fiction movies.
The course will cover different styles and techniques to get you thinking and to help shape your artistic ideas.
Working with a team, you will create a film from start to finish.
This will involve researching, planning, managing the project, learning how to make a film, and working well with others.
You will experiment with imaginative and creative storytelling about identity, hidden histories, diversity, and alternative cultures.
With the guidance of a tutor, you will make two short films that mix made-up and real-life stories.
By the end of the module, you will have gained the skills and confidence needed to create films that tell your own unique stories.
You'll learn about shooting with a single camera and everything that goes into making a film, from the inception of an idea to the final edit.
In workshops, you will get to try your hand at using a camera, setting up lights, recording sound, and editing videos on a computer.
You will have the opportunity to take on important roles such as director, cinematographer, editor, or producer.
We will explore different filmmakers and types of movies and observe how culture and identity influence their work.
This will help you incorporate similar techniques in your own films.
Additionally, you will work with a small team, improving your communication, teamwork, and project management skills.
You’ll learn about different editing platforms and asset management methods.
This will help you gain needed skills to follow professional workflows.
In this focused setting, you’ll work on complex projects.
You’ll use innovative editing techniques while maintaining a clear creative vision.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to refine edits to a high standard, preparing them for festival debuts or TV broadcasting.
In this module, you’ll study the history of American cinema leading up to WWII.
You’ll analyse how studios, censorship, and marketing influenced the creation of the Hollywood style.
Comparing classic and modern examples, you’ll see how today’s blockbusters continue narrative and exhibition traditions born decades ago.
Through lectures, readings, and screenings, you’ll develop skills analysing films in context, identifying formal conventions and reflecting critically on the artistic legacy of spectacular Hollywood.
You will pitch your ideas, write proposals and manage the production process.
Additionally, you will learn about the language and rules of filmmaking which will help you make artistic decisions that will engage your viewers.
You will gain experience in filming and editing and produce a polished film.
Once your film is ready, you will develop a marketing strategy for screenings and distribution.
You will learn to work with others and understand how to get your film out into the world.
Overall, this module provides an invaluable experience of the fiction filmmaking process and supports you in making your vision a reality.
Starting with a pilot episode, you will refine your program's format and on-screen presentation.
You will gain hands-on experience of a broadcast team by working in various roles ranging from presenter to producer.
By responding to feedback and critiques, you will improve the quality of your content and production values.
You will learn the art of replication, which will enable you to create a successful TV show before a live audience.
This module gives you a chance to develop and share your TV idea through the excitement of live transmission.
Gain practical experience with HD cameras, lighting kits, and grip equipment through workshops and projects.
You’ll learn everything from framing and movement to setting up lights and adjusting camera settings.
Dive into the world of cinematic language and aesthetics to improve your storytelling.
You’ll also work in teams, getting a real feel for on-set collaboration and the different roles, all while following industry standards.
Push the boundaries with your visual experiments to make your narratives stand out.
Plus, you’ll create an impressive reel that showcases both your technical skills and your artistic flair.
By the end, you’ll have the essential skills and creative eye to be a desirable camera operator in fiction and nonfiction productions.
Let your vision shine through the lens.
Learn how to lead actors in auditions, rehearsals, and when filming.
You’ll get good at using communication to help actors give powerful performances.
Also, you’ll work closely with the crew to turn your ideas into reality using film techniques.
From start to finish, including working with editors and composers, you’ll be in charge.
You’ll also direct and produce your own short film, using all your technical, creative, and people skills.
By the end, you'll have actual directing experience and a director's reel to flaunt your talent in leading productions and creative teams.
Let your imagination and vision tell powerful stories.
Discussing film festivals' cultural contribution, you'll develop your critical eye.
Learning the practices of curating film events will empower you to plan screenings and programmes.
You'll reflect on questions of power, ethics and representation in your own curatorial process, and gain professional growth.
You’ll use industry-standard equipment to capture clear sound recordings on location.
Hone your ears creating rich soundscapes and effects in post-production, using Pro Tools.
Explore how sound influences cinematic storytelling.
Working in teams, you’ll get a feel for on-set roles and workflows, all while meeting the specific needs of a production.
You’ll also be able to experiment with audio to make your stories more engaging.
Plus, you’ll put together an impressive sound reel that shows your technical skills and artistic flair.
Finish this module with the mastery for a career in recording and mixing audio for the screen.
Your talents will truly resonate in every project you touch.
You will get to use professional software such as Avid and Davinci Resolve, and learn how to follow real-world pipelines from camera to delivery.
You will learn about colour grading and monitoring, and how to create aesthetically pleasing looks.
By examining global case studies, you will understand the roles of studios and post houses.
You will also blend theory and practice to evaluate technical and creative decisions.
By the end of this module, you will have gained specialised knowledge that will help you excel in a post-production career.
This module equips you to create compelling factual narratives, developing ideas, researching stories, and working with contributors.
With industry-based guidance on filmmaking and ethics, you'll produce work that enhances your showreel or portfolio.
You'll master compositing, tracking, keying and 3D techniques using Adobe After Effects and Cinema 4D.
You'll learn crucial shooting principles and seamlessly incorporate CG elements through green screen and set extensions.
Developing professional workflows informed by lectures and hands-on exercises, you'll enhance footage to meet the demands of modern filmmaking.
You'll choose a genre and guide a small team through the entire filmmaking process, from idea generation to post-production.
This module lets you use your creativity and technical knowledge to film and edit a movie that matches your vision.
Its biggest benefit is the practical experience it offers, preparing you to produce work that meets industry standards.
Your completed short film will be a key part of your portfolio, showing you’re set for a successful career in media.
You'll identify transferable skills for roles from production to post-production.
Learning from professionals, you'll analyse practices, build networks, and understand different pathways into the industry.
Creating materials to showcase your abilities, you'll address development needs.
Staying up-to-date with emerging tech, you'll be ready to bring fresh ideas to studios.
This module helps you focus your talents and experiences toward your dream job.
By building a small website, you’ll not only promote your film but also highlight your team’s creative vision and talents.
This module helps you shape your unique identity as an emerging filmmaker, spotlighting your special skills and experience.
You’ll learn to promote yourself in ways that are ethical and respected in the industry.
Above all, you’ll gain the tools to actively steer your career path.
Sharpen your eyes by deconstructing key scenes in iconic films to uncover what makes them visually impactful as you advance your own camera and lighting skills.
Discuss cinematography techniques and trends, pitch your own short film ideas, and get feedback from lecturers to refine your vision.
Then, bring your unique perspective to life by producing a short film that showcases your camera and lighting talents.
After this module you'll have an impressive showreel that demonstrates your comprehensive cinematography expertise, ready to support you after graduation.
You’ll look at acclaimed films and TV shows from different angles related to identity, politics, and culture.
Explore questions like why the male gaze, LGBTQ+ representation, feminism, and diversity matter in the industry.
You’ll get help from expert lecturers to improve your skills in thinking critically, making good arguments, and linking what you watch to the bigger picture.
By the end, you’ll be able to talk about representation in media with examples and ideas you’ve learnt.
This module will help you become a more aware and engaged viewer of film and TV.
Using a range of case studies from media formats such as literature, film, TV, visual culture, comics, and videogames, you'll research your own media case studies and contextualise them.
Caleb Johnston, BA (Hons) Film Production 2020 graduate
You'll also learn by studying independently.
You can borrow film production gear and use computer work stations in your own time to enhance your learning.
You can get feedback on all practical and formal assessments so you can improve in the future.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, tutorials, seminars, practical classes, workshops, fieldwork and project supervision for about 12 hours a week.
- UK/Channel Islands and Isle of Man students – £9,535 per year (may be subject to annual increase)
You may need to spend £50 to £100 each year on a variety of materials, such as DVDs or camera cards, and a small hard drive to back up media.
We recommended you get the most recent version of Avid accreditation text, which costs around £50–£80.
The Underwater Filming and Media module is available if you haven’t dived before.
It includes a PADI Open Water course combined with the Underwater Filming and Media course.
It costs around £850.
The Underwater Filming and Media B module is available if you already hold a PADI Open Water certificate (or equivalent).
It includes a further diving course (e.g.
PADI Advanced Open Water), combined with the Underwater Filming and Media Course, and costs around £700 to cover tuition, transport and diving costs.
If you've already completed part of this course with us or another university and would like to apply for the second or third year with us in 2025 - please contact us
To start BA (Hons) Film Production in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Film Production with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – PP33

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design:
Develop your own visual style and specialism on this BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree.
With typography at the core, you’ll learn the research, digital and professional skills you need to succeed as an innovative graphic designer.
W210,                      W211
On this BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree, you’ll develop your own visual style, with an emphasis on developing your confidence applying digital and traditional design skills.
We have an exceptional list of professional connections gained from our industry-active, research-led teaching staff.
With opportunities to specialise in your area of interest and win awards from prestigious graphic design bodies, you’ll build an inspiring design profile that no employer can resist.
Graphic design is a cornerstone of many industries, so you'll have lots of career options after graduation.
If you want to start in web design, advertising, branding, and other media, or advance to a Master's: now is your time to explore.
Click on an image below to view it in more detail and read students' statements.
To see more student work, browse our Graduate Show 2025 Graphic Design showcase .
I’m Ali, a quirky and versatile Graphic Designer originally from Spain, a typography enthusiast, and a former chicken pet owner.
I moved to the UK in 2012 to get a better education in the creative field.
I pride myself on my speedy idea generation ability, and enthusiasm in embarking on new projects.
Recently, I have undertaken an exciting intensive project with Dyson x SNTech.
I designed a set of identities for a range of products that help reduce ByCatch, which led me to be selected as the winning pitch.
I look forward to collaborating with a wide variety of people that allow me to not only expand my expertise, but also gain valuable knowledge and experience in the field.
Hope you're having a good week!
About my ISTD project: Celebrating Edwin S.
Porter’s use of the camera in his silent film ‘The Great Train Robbery’ (1903).
This project typographically celebrates the world of Silent Cinema through the  experimentation and application of pure type to celebrate innovative methods of filming in the 1903 Western film ‘The Great Train Robbery’, produced by Edwin S.Porter.
Analogue methods of production were used to create type as image, most notably scanning and photographing.
The publication contains the timings at which each scene occurs in the 12 min film, providing the reader an opportunity to see the effects celebrated in action.
Studies show that there has been an alarming rise in anxiety and isolation levels among undergraduates, much like new concerns like recession, debt and increased pressure to battle out for a finite number of graduate roles.
My idea was then to create an app where people were able to express and keep track of their emotions, seeing that they are not alone.
This came after understanding that students were more comfortable talking about mental health around peers, as these are the ones who are going through similar experiences.
cdstmestre@gmail.com
My name is Christina Gower and I’m graduating from the University of Portsmouth with a degree in graphic design.
I am hard working, imaginative, reliable but most of all, I have a positive mindset.
Also, I love a challenge and learning new skills.
I work well and effectively in both a team and individual setting.
Over my time at university, I completed my work during typical working hours, I have met every strict deadline as well as trained myself to de-construct briefs in order to analyse all the details.
In my free time I’ll most likely be found outdoors, hiking, reading or simply enjoying my surroundings.
However, if it’s a rainy day I motivate myself to learn new skills or software.
Follow Christina on Instagram
Hi, I am Eleanor Galloway an enthusiastic and creative graphic design graduate with a passion in photography and digital design.
I am a hardworking individual who is able to adapt well into new situations and environments using the skills I have developed throughout university.
Working within a team or collaboratively is where I work best but I am still able to take on the leadership role when necessary.
For our major projects we were given the freedom to focus on an area of our choice and design something for it.
I created a book analysing and discussing the different portrayals of clowns in the media and how that has changed our perception of them.
The book was aimed at adults and used a combination of materials and methods to create an interactive design that would be both fun and informative
elegall24@gmail.com
Hello, I’m Ellis, a recent Graphic Design graduate from the University of Portsmouth.
I am a curious, passionate designer and like to create interactive digital experiences that challenge what we are comfortable with.
My interests are in UX/UI design, editorial design, illustration and motion design.
Explore Ellis's Portfolio | ellismuddle@hotmail.com | Connect to Ellis's LinkedIn
Hi, I’m Emily!
I’m an ambitious, conscientious and enthusiastic designer with a high attention to detail.
I love learning new things and enjoy challenging myself to improve my work and achieve the best of my abilities.
I particularly enjoy branding, editorial and UX/UI design and I love being playful and experimental in my design process.
I have recently been awarded as a winner in the 2021 South West Design and Digital Student Awards and have also been awarded a membership with Merit to the International Society of Typographic Design.
I was also awarded a commendation in the YCN New Now Student Awards 2020.
Since March 2020, people have been dreaming more and remembering more dreams which are particularly vivid and bizarre.
Covivid is an app that allows users to record, share and understand their dreams during the coronavirus pandemic.
On an individual level, Covivid is a dream journalling app that can be used to digitally record and track dreams throughout the pandemic.
On a larger scale, the app creates a space to explore and interact with dreams from around the world through virtual covivid dream galleries.
emily.hawkins13@gmail.com | Follow Emily on Instagram
Hi, I’m Emma, I am an enthusiastic designer, motivated by a desire to create innovative ideas and designs which solve real life problems and have a meaningful impact on users.
My main interests are UX/UI design and branding.
I have recently been awarded the Overall Creative Champion at the South West Design and Digital Student Awards and awarded a D&AD New Blood Pencil.
Kuki is an air quality pet for young children, which uses gamification techniques to inspire, engage and encourage the adoption of positive behaviours, creating responsible adults that will reduce air pollution in the future and inspire long term change.
Kuki links to an app with features for both parents and kids.
Within the app kids can earn points and receive rewards for their ‘pet’ kuki, encouraging positive behaviour.
The health of their ‘pet’ is reflective of their own pollution exposure levels, acting as a contextual reminder.
Parents can use the app to monitor their child’s exposure, find areas of high pollution, and stay up to date on air quality news.
emmabrookesdesign@gmail.com | Follow Emily on Instagram | Connect to Emma's LinkedIn Profile
I am a graphic designer and 3D artist.
I enjoy uncomplicating problems and solving faults, being objective and efficient while finding innovative solutions to turn the trick and achieve the desired result.
I may be ambitious but I believe in objective innovations above all.
viveiros.jpg@gmail.com
Katie Packer's final year project
Hi, my name is Lauren, and I am a graduate of the University of Portsmouth studying BA (Hons) Graphic Design and hope to go on and do my masters at Loughborough in September 2021.
I am organised, hardworking, and creatively driven in design and have experience in both print and digital projects.
I have a love for branding, editorial and infographic design and I have strong technical skills in adobe software, including an Adobe Certified Associate in Adobe Photoshop.
parker.lauren@hotmail.co.uk | Lauren's LinkedIn profile | Follow Lauren on Instagram
Hello, I’m Lora and I'm a passionate Graphic Designer originally from Bulgaria.
I moved to the UK in 2018 to develop my skills and knowledge at the University of Portsmouth.
I gained experience in the brand and identity industry while I worked with HMS Spirits company and Lost in Samsara.
I’m also obsessed with print and typography.
I love to experiment with typography, colors, high-quality paper stoke, print techniques and bookbinding.
I’m an energetic, self-motivate designer looking for my next freelance projects.
Connect to Lora's LinkedIn profile | Explore Lora's Portfolio
I’m Michael Luck and I’m a passionate graphic designer based in Portsmouth.
I’ve got a good sense of humour and enjoy working with teams and getting to know people.
I’m always keen to geek out about design as well as learn and develop my abilities.
I enjoy a wide range of areas within graphic design but have a particular passion for branding.
mluckdesign@gmail.com | Follow Michael on Instagram
Hi I'm Paige.
I specialise in branding, user interface and editorial design.
The challenge of addressing a complex problem is exciting to me, with my approach to work being heavily-research driven; an aspect of the design process I always find the most crucial.
During the 4 years of my degree, I've been able to work in Germany on placement year and achieve Adobe Certification in Photoshop and InDesign.
I'm currently working as a ux/ui design intern at The ENTERTAINER, Dubai.
Explore Paige's portfolio | Follow Paige on Instagram
Hello!
My name is Rosanna Smith, and I am an enthusiastic and hardworking Graphic Designer.
I have a strong passion for digital and print design with a particular interest in branding and identity.
My course has given me a broad range of live brief experience, including working on and receiving a commendation for my submission to the YCN competition in 2019.
In my third year of university, I completed an internship at Teradata, an international database and analytics business which enabled me to work as part of a marketing team, providing design solutions for clients within the fortune 500 group.
This year, I was awarded a membership to the International Society of Typographic Designers (ISTD) for my ‘Invisible Cities’ book design submission.
This project was conducted as part of a competition unit for the You Can Now (YCN) Awards in 2019.
This brief involved creating a campaign aimed at young adults aged 18-24, ‘to raise awareness” that actively choosing to visit museums or galleries more often can be a powerful antidote to the stress and anxiety of student life’.
There are two messages within this campaign.
The first message is that the Student Art Pass is the key to ‘unlocking’ artwork and the second, is that venues such as museums, exhibitions and galleries are spaces in which young adults can ‘unlock’ themselves.
Follow Rosanna on Instagram
Hi, I’m Yasmin Gabellini.
I’m a Graphic Designer from Southampton and I have recently graduated from the University of Portsmouth.
I am particularly passionate about branding and enjoy designing original identities for new or existing companies.
I have experience in designing outcomes for both print and digital purposes which I gained during my placement year.
I created this App design for my Major Project, it is an App called Memory Care which encourages 35-65 year olds to maintain and improve their memory through memory training, personal goals and alerts.
Follow Yasmin on Instagram | Explore Yasmin's portfolio
I'm grateful to have had the opportunity to enter a variety of different competitions both as part of my university work as well as alongside it.
...I was awarded Overall Creative Champion at the South West Design and Digital Student Awards for my project 'Kuki', where I was also awarded Winner at the RSA Student Awards and fellowship to the RSA.
Emma Brookes, BA (Hons) Graphic Design 2021 graduate
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our BA (Hons) Graphic Design creative portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Graphic Design with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Graphic Design.
Use our traditional lino-printing, wood-cutting and monoprinting equipment for all your design and print needs.
Explore facilities
Use our screen printing and screen coating rooms for your graphic materials, artwork and fabric printing – with a host of traditional and digital equipment.
Explore workshops
In our non-profit art materials shop, you'll find all you need at affordable prices.
Open to students, staff, alumni and University affiliates.
Explore Shop
The course has given me all the tools I need in order to be the best designer I can be, both professionally and personally.
It has taught me important values and methodologies related not only to better design practices but also for interpersonal skills.
Catarina Mestre, BA (Hons) Graphic Design 2021 graduate
With the skills and knowledge you gain from this course, you can work across a variety of creative industries.
In 15 months after graduating, 90% of Graphic Design graduates have already started work or are pursuing further studies (HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019), so you'll be in excellent company.
Areas you could work in include magazine design publishing, branding and design, advertising, web design, and TV and film.
You could also set up your own business, work as a freelancer, or go on to postgraduate study.
Companies and studios our graduates have worked at include:
Some businesses our graduates have started up include:
After your second or third year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in many areas of graphic design.
Previous students have landed roles including graphic designer and UX (user experience) designer.
Previous placement students have worked at companies and organisations such as:
If you fancy going independent, you can start up and run your own graphic design company for a year as an alternative to a work-based placement.
Whatever your choice, Creative Careers is here to help.
Vanessa Maia – MMT Digital
Vanessa tells us what she's learnt during her internship as a Graphic Designer, the highlights she's encountered, and the challenges she's surmounted along the way.
Read Vanessa's story
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer this course with a foundation year to bring you up speed.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Graphic Design
All modules in the year are core.
Buiyou'll refine your portfolio and develop a professional presence.
Through hands-on projects, you'll apply these concepts using software like Photoshop, InDesign, and Illustrator, as well as traditional printing techniques and digital design methods.
Exploring the historical context of graphic design, you'll examine its impact on visual culture and audience interpretation.
Applying communication theories, you'll learn to integrate these insights into your own creative practice.
You'll test different strategies and how they resonate with target demographics.
You'll combine analysis with software mastery, working to commercial deadlines, and demonstrating professional skills.
With core abilities reinforced through lived experience, this module provides invaluable experience of real workplace demands.
You’ll adopt research methodologies to gain insights into user needs and inform design decisions.
You’ll conceptualise solutions that are focused on the human experience and apply UX principles through an industry project.
Using technical skills in UX software, such as Figma and Sketch, you’ll craft interfaces that feel intuitive.
This module will enable you to bridge gaps between products and people through user-centric design.
You’ll enhance your skills in typography, layout, and production.
Your focus will be on materials for in-depth reading, like books and journals.
Study examples and learn how to bind books, then get to design and produce your own printed book.
You’ll pick out paper, use both digital and screen printing methods, and work with print settings in InDesign software.
Our workshops, tutorials, and feedback sessions will guide you from idea to publication.
This module equips you with essential practical skills for success in typography and editorial design jobs in graphic design.
You’ll look into important topics like sustainability and representation.
Learn about the important role you have in society as a graphic designer.
We’ll help you think deeply about an issue you care about and then make something that shows your understanding of that issue.
You’ll get to talk about challenging ideas in workshops and learn how to look at research without bias.
When you finish, you’ll be ready to tackle tricky questions and use your design skills to make a difference.
This module will help you figure out what you stand for, find your unique style, and make thinking about right and wrong a key part of how you create.
You will research historical and theoretical frameworks, outlining a critical stance on addressing body and space holistically.
Communicating analytical findings in written assessments, you will show engagement with the research process.
The module enables appreciation of interiority as an evolving assemblage of human and non-human dynamics.
Examine historical representation across disciplines to see how images offer bold perspectives throughout history, as you sharpen your analytical skills by comparing different visual histories and academic arguments.
You'll discuss critical issues in using visual culture as a form of historical storytelling.
When you finish this module you'll be ready to choose a topic for your final year project.
You'll explore design, fashion, illustration, photography, film, television and online materials associated with feminist art canons, representation of disability and the treatment of victims of true crime on screen.
You'll also consider research methods and to prepare for your final year project.
Building upon your foundational experiences from your first year, this module delves into the realm of large-scale graphic design through a blend of cutting-edge analogue and digital techniques.
In this module, you'll immerse yourself in a world where traditional boundaries of graphic design are redefined.
You'll engage with a variety of tools and environments, such as the CCIXR, motion and 3D technologies, projection methods, and the Eldon 3D studios The use of CNC, CAD fabrication tools, and woodworking will not just be an exercise but a journey into creating immersive environments where design is not just seen but experienced.
You get to choose what you want to study deeply.
You’ll examine different sources, collect information, and understand the bigger picture.
We’ll be there to help you get better at making designs based on your research, picking the best ways to explore your ideas, and explaining why they work.
Learn to use different methods—from surveys to prototyping—to effectively share your ideas.
You’ll also perfect your abilities in presenting your work and thinking about what makes you unique and skilled.
Gain the confidence and sharp thinking you need as a designer to take on tough projects and come up with exciting new solutions.
You'll apply your previous knowledge to research and execute a significant project on a topic of your choice.
The project will involve a lot of visual and written exploration, where you'll experiment with various techniques, methods, and materials.
While working on your project, consider the message it conveys, the setting it will be presented in, and the intended audience.
You should also think about how it could be used professionally.
The module will culminate with you presenting your ambitious idea in a professional manner, such as an exhibition, a portfolio, or another suitable platform.
Throughout this module, you'll have the opportunity to refine your graphic design skills, including the ability to receive feedback and make modifications.
This experience will prepare you to pursue creative careers or further studies after graduation.
You'll take part in contests by leading design institutions, honing your problem-solving and innovative mindset.
We’ll help you refine and show a wide range of technical abilities—from traditional letterpress to modern book cover design—all with professional guidance.
Learn to critically evaluate your distinctive style by looking at current design practices.
Through expert advice on project handling, you’ll handle pressing deadlines, preparing you to excel in a real-world setting.
When you finish, you’ll have a portfolio that stands out and industry contacts that could help fast-track your professional goals.
You'll build strong organisational and time management abilities like those you'll use in the design industry.
Through research, development and practice, you'll work within specific design rules and deadlines.
When you complete this module, you'll have the skills to communicate effectively with clients and demonstrate skills in using design software.
You’ll learn to craft a personal brand and create a striking portfolio that showcases your abilities.
We’ll guide you in everything, from writing a standout CV to mastering job interviews, equipping you with the know-how to present your unique brand.
Working in a team for our annual showcase will improve your problem-solving creativity and project management skills.
We’ll also assist you in enhancing your online profile, ensuring you leave the course ready to impress potential employers.
Realise your full potential and smoothly make the move from student life to a thriving career in the creative industries.
There’s an emphasis on practical sessions, a strong studio culture and developing a creative atmosphere that will inspire you.
Not a fan of exams?
Don't worry – there aren't any on this course.
Instead, you can let your designs do the talking.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, tutorials, seminars, practical classes, workshops and supervised studio sessions for about 11 hours a week.
The time you spend in teaching activities such as lectures and seminars varies year on year and will depend on which optional modules you select.
As a guide, students on this course last year typically spent their time as follows:
To start BA (Hons) Graphic Design in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Graphic Design with a Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – W211
Apply direct for September 2026 entry.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history:
Get closer to the moments that shaped our world on this History degree course.
Choose to explore the times and themes that interest you most.
Develop skills in research, analysis and argument that all sorts of employers are looking for.
V100,                      V101
Explore the past to understand the now.
Dive into moments of challenge, change and everyday life across six centuries and four continents.
Uncover the ways in which diverse groups of people were shaped by, and themselves shaped, the world they lived in.
In doing so, you can reflect on your own values and better understand how history is about the present, and the future.
The city of Portsmouth has its own rich stories to tell, connecting to local, national and global history.
Past and present meet on every corner - from its Tudor Castle to the millennial Spinnaker Tower.
It's the ideal place to create your own immersive and relevant BA (Hons) History degree.
History contributes to Area Studies.
Read more about our excellent research in Area Studies
96%
of students said this course developed knowledge and skills they'll need for the future
Study history in a city that's always been a gateway to the wider world.
Meet our academics and students, learn about our placement opportunities, and discover why Portsmouth could be right for you.
Brad Beaven: As students go through the course, you're doing your own research under expert guidance and really producing real history, so it's not a passive type of course, you're going out there doing the research and writing real history.
Beth: BA History is a three year course that gives you loads of scope on what you can research, you can do it with pathways.
I did it with Sociology, or you can do it with American Studies.
Brad Beaven: The types of topics we offer on this course are really wide ranging.
One week you could be looking at the Opium Wars, Chinese Opium Wars.
The following week you'd be looking at Opium Dens in Victorian London, the French Revolution and student revolutions in the 1960s.
Mike Esbester: There are a variety of museums and sites of historic interest that we’re able to take the students to as part of the course.
The skills that they develop with us are the ones that employers really look for.
So, the ability to analyse critically, produce an argument, make a case, so really practical skills that are really sought after and used in every walk of life.
On the course, there are a variety of placement opportunities available.
You will work with the Placement and Internship Centre, so a dedicated team who are helping with setting up placements.
Beth: I did a year volunteering at my local museum.
I got to work with social sectors that promoted arts and culture.
I got to provide walking tours.
Brad Beaven: When we find students come back, they come back with a wholly different attitude to work.
They've got real experience in different varieties, so things like PR,
Mike Esbester: law, charities, museums and archive services, i.e.
a company that dealt with digitisation.
Brad Beaven: It's a huge opportunity for people to gain those experiences and opportunities.
Beth: I would say to other students to come to Portsmouth because it's just a great city in that you are by the sea.
In the summer, it's amazing to go down to the common.
The university itself, though, is great in communication, the personal tutors were amazing.
Even during my placement, I was kept in contact with my tutor and then throughout the course itself, there are really nice people to get along with.
Mike Esbester: The team are fantastic, really enthusiastic, dedicated and teaching a huge amount of really interesting material about the past.
Brad Beaven: Portsmouth has huge amounts of heritage that gives lots of opportunities for students to do part-time work and job opportunities in that way.
Portsmouth is a really student-friendly city.
Mike Esbester: I think the thing that I love most about the course is seeing the current students get it.
It's brilliant, really fun and it's a wonderful thing.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) History.
You can follow optional Sociology or American Studies pathways through this degree, or include History as a pathway in our English Literature or International Relations courses.
It'll lead to one of these awards at the end of the course:
Portsmouth is a time traveller’s paradise, with historic tales of royalty, naval exploration, and even the odd ghost… join two of our students for a tour around our historic island city.
Archie and Kimberley
Welcome to Portsmouth!
Kimberley
Our city is a time traveller's paradise with historical tales of royalty, naval exploration and even the odd ghost.
Archie
Let us show you around.
Portsmouth is best known for our naval history, and here at the historic dockyard, you'll find the Mary Rose, HMS Warrior and HMS Victory.
People arriving and leaving via ships has helped to shape the city, and the city has helped to shape their ideas and actions.
In 1662, Catherine Duchess of Braganza alighted here from Portugal to marry King Charles II.
Their wedding took place here in Portsmouth and you can see their marriage certificate in Portsmouth Cathedral.
In the cathedral you'll also find a statue of the Duke of Buckingham, who was assassinated not far away in the Greyhound Inn.
The Cathedral is also linked to multiple ghost stories and urban legends, including a sighting of Spring-heeled Jack, a fire-breathing demon.
The city wasn't built to keep out demons, but Portsmouth was vitally important in the defence of the Channel Coast.
So a protective circuit was built around the city, including Southsea Castle.
Moving forward in the timeline of the city's defence, the site of popular shopping centre Gunwharf Quays was once home to the ‘stone frigate’ HMS Vernon.
This two-tonne monument commemorates its mine warfare and diving heritage.
Like many port cities, Portsmouth welcomes a variety of different cultures and backgrounds, but their histories are not always visible.
Historians at the University are working with community activists, curators, archivists and teachers to raise the visibility of black history and to engage locals in the co-production of this knowledge.
As well as visitors, Portsmouth has many famous faces who were born right here, including novelist Charles Dickens, and Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the engineer.
From engineers to writers, royalty to slaves, Portsmouth has had a number of people come and go over the years.
Their impact lives on.
Our historians are discovering new stories from the past that helped shape our future.
Visit us and our historic city.
You never know, you might just change its future.
Studying history will give you transferable skills in critical thinking, collaboration, research, analysis and argument, all of which are highly valued by many kinds of employers.
As a qualified historian, you can move forward to further study and research or put your degree to work in areas such as:
Portsmouth alumni have worked with organisations including:
Emily Fryer graduated in 2018 with a BA (Hons) History degree from the University of Portsmouth.
She is now a HR Manager.
Find out what Emily’s role entails and how she’s applying the skills she learnt during her time with us.
Emily: I am Emily Fryer.
I went to Portsmouth three years ago and I studied history.
I've always loved history, it's been my passion since I've been little.
My dad loves history as well.
We would always go on trips to the museum.
We would go to the Imperial War Museum in London loads.
When I was sort of picking what I wanted to do at uni, I wasn't sure what I wanted to do for a career.
History is a subject that I loved the most and then when I was speaking to the Careers Advisors, they were saying about how many transferable skills history has.
I visited three different universities and Portsmouth was by far my favourite.
I think it helped when I visited, it was super sunny and Portsmouth in the sunshine is the loveliest place ever.
You've got it all really.
You have the student life, but you've also got the beach and all the history.
It was just the place really more than anything else that sold me, like I would love to live here for three years.
All the lecturers that I met were so lovely, really passionate and they are all actively researching and publishing as well.
So you really get experts in each of their fields.
One of my lecturers was Rob James, I ended up getting a first overall, and I think that was largely down to him.
Always knowing that I could do better and pushing me and really believing in me.
When I graduated with my history degree, I was kind of unsure about what to do, what career path to take because it is so varied, you can really do whatever you want.
I found a job at Cath Kidston.
I got a job in HR and it's just something that I've realised is a perfect mix of all of my skills, all of my passions, all into one job.
My degree has actually had a huge impact on my career.
I wanted to learn all of the theory behind the stuff I've been doing at work for the last two years.
That's why I was so keen to do my CIPD.
I don't even know where I'd be without the University of Portsmouth, it was such a big part of my life.
Living here and studying here and all of the people that I met and the tutors.
Kind of more than anything, it's instilled that thirst for knowledge and always wanting to know more and always wanting to question things.
I think a huge part of history is you're always questioning a source, and the lecturers would say, don't just believe everything at face value, always question things and always want to know more.
What really drives me is that I just want a job that I enjoy, a life that I enjoy.
That is what makes me want to continue studying so I can just progress in my career and continue enjoying what I'm doing.
After your second or third year, you can undertake an optional work placement year.
This is an exciting opportunity to get invaluable work experience relevant to your intended career path.
The University can provide support and advice to help secure a work placement best suited for you.
You can find placements in the UK or beyond, depending on your identified career plans.
History students undertake placements in a variety of areas, including in the not-for-profit sector, in museums and heritage sites, in digital content management and with legal firms.
Current and recent students have secured placements at:
We'll help you secure a work placement that fits your aspirations.
You'll get mentoring and support throughout the year.
The history degree at Portsmouth has been very enjoyable and the city itself boasts a wealth of material that has been beneficial to my learning.
Connor Jones, BA (Hons) History student
You’ll discover the dramatic changes that disrupted people’s lives in Europe from the fifteenth century to the mid-eighteenth century, including religious controversy, international and civil wars, European colonialism and climate crisis.
Explore how people at the time grappled with new ways of thinking about identity and status, along with complex notions of gender and ideas of 'race'.
Learn about how people who lived through this era of change and conflict understood their world and how they sought to adapt to or change it.
You'll investigate formative political, social and cultural developments through time.
By locating events within both their specific regional contexts and also their broader global trends, you'll start to see some of the connections shaping the development of the modern world.
With guidance, you'll explore and challenge narratives of the national and regional histories to gain new perspectives on the underappreciated complexities of these histories.
On this module, you’ll learn about the social, cultural, economic and political changes which took place from the mid-eighteenth century until the end of the twentieth century, covering periods of war and peace, revolution and protest, and imperial rivalry and national unification.
You’ll explore how individuals and different communities in countries such as Britain, France, or Germany were affected by the challenges and conflicts of their times but also consider how people actively shaped the events and times they lived through.
On this module, you’ll discover how to step-up from your previous learning to the independence that's essential for success in your degree.
Reflecting upon the historical topics you’ll study each week across the degree, this module will help you gain confidence in discussing the past, presenting arguments, and in the foundational skills of university study.
On this module, you'll use a wide range of primary sources, ranging from written texts to a diverse array of non-written materials, to learn more about the lives of people in the past.
You'll also look at the uses to which historians have put primary sources, and explore questions of why and how interpretations of the past constantly evolve.
You’ll discover how within historical study our understanding constantly evolves, and how these changing understandings help us to think about the importance of history in the present.
You’ll hear your lecturers introduce important historical debates in their own field of research.
Through discussing, exploring and bringing to life a number of case studies which draw on a variety of chronological and geographical areas, this module will help you to advance your critical skills in reading and argument.
On this module, you’ll learn how the practice of academic history can be transferred and applied to a vast range of practical projects that involve thinking about, working with, or drawing-upon knowledge and understanding of the past.
You’ll also carry out a self-guided project, with support from tutors and potentially in collaboration with internal or (subject to availability) external partners.
Your project will reflect the opportunities that history will provide for your future career.
You’ll explore ideas around modernisation, colonialism and nationalism and how they shape education, gender roles, ethnicity, class, sexuality and everyday life in this part of the world.
By comparing the experiences of different countries when it comes to industrialisation, democratisation and conflict, you’ll learn how to appreciate complex regional dynamics.
You’ll explore the rise of the US across the twentieth century from a regional power to a global superpower and the domestic and international pressures upon the USA that caused it to go through alternating periods of isolationism and global engagement.
You’ll also delve into the two global wars and why the US entered them later than most other nations, the isolationist interwar years, the start of the Cold War, the Vietnam Conflict and the War on Terror.
In doing so, you'll explore how they were impacted by political change, and also how they challenged inequalities.
You'll start by studying two topics for the first half of the module.
For the second half of the module, you'll choose to focus on one of the strands to prepare for the module’s final assessment.
Sex, Gender and Power in Early Modern England
Explore how gender and sexuality were debated and understood, and how these ideas impacted the lives of people across English society c.1450-1700.
Examine the role that sex and gender played in the exercise of power and influence in early modern society.
Shock Cities: Slums, Crime and Cultural Conflict in Victorian Britain, c.1850-1914
Delve into fears that the modern city was spiralling out of control due to slums, crime, class and racial tensions, and how these were seen as threats to civil order and the Empire.
Investigate urban elites’ attempts to stem this threat by categorising the urban poor, and promoting local and imperial loyalty through schools, pageantry, and civic architecture.
Thomas Jefferson and the Making of the Early American Republic
Discover the era of the American Revolution by examining the life and actions of Thomas Jefferson - politician, statesman, reformer, intellectual and enslaver - which helps to reveal how state and society were transformed by revolutionary upheaval.
Led by a subject specialist, you'll study a specific example of how a society was transformed by the forces of revolution: the political, social, and cultural pressures that fomented a revolutionary response leading to new ways of conceiving and ordering society.
Example topics that you may study include:
Britain in Revolution: the impact of the British Civil Wars, 1637-1662
Explore a defining event in the history of the British Isles: a violent and traumatic struggle which affected the lives of everyone who lived through it, and which unleashed ideas which transformed British society and had a profound influence worldwide.
Civil Rights USA
What makes a successful civil rights movement?
This module explores and contrasts a range of social movements, from African American, second-wave feminism, Native American, Asian American, Hispanic, LGBTQ+ and youth movements.
The French Revolution, 1789-1799
Study the events and individuals that drew France into the great Terror of 1793-94, assess the political ideals and social goals that brought such deadly conflict, and consider the complex question of the Terror's legacy to the politics of radicalism and revolution throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
You’ll be assessed through a variety of formats.
The emphasis is on giving you a range of ways to demonstrate what you’ve learned and how your thinking has developed.
Your history degree with us is weighted more towards coursework than traditional exams.
Assessment types include:
You can get feedback on all practice and formal assessments so that you can continue to develop and improve
There's an emphasis on learning the skills to conduct your own research, follow your own initiative, and confidently present your ideas.
Studying history provided me with independence, flexibility, and research skills so that I can always meet the changing demands of my role in corporate governance.
Rory Herbert, BA (Hons) History
Principal Lecturer
Katy.Gibbons@port.ac.uk
Professor of Modern History
David.Andress@port.ac.uk
Robert.James@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your History degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 15 hours a week.
The rest of the time you’ll do independent study such as research, independent reading, coursework and project work, alone or in a group with others from your course.
To start BA (Hons) History in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – V101
Apply direct for September 2026 entry .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-and-politics:
Study a BA (Hons) History and Politics degree with a central theme of 'changing the world' - one that will equip you to address today's global challenges including social justice, inequality and migration.
You'll explore the impact of key moments in global politics, in the past and the present, through studying a combination of interdisciplinary and specialist modules in both subjects.
VL29,                      VL30
96-112 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent, to include a relevant subject
Discover how the politics of the past have shaped the world we know today.
On this BA (Hons) History and Politics degree, you'll retrace the political and social conflicts, revolutions and protest movements of yesterday in order to make sense of the here and now and create positive change.
Travel back to pivotal political moments in time from around the globe guided by our expert academics.
Craft your own learning experience by choosing to study the historical and political subjects and eras that most inspire you, such as the French Revolution, post war Britain and Germany, or the American Civil Rights Movement.
As this is an interdisciplinary course, each year you'll also study a bespoke combined history and politics module as well as delving into each subject separately.
Through the course's overarching theme of 'changing the world', you'll use what you learn to rethink modern societal issues, such as social justice, racial and gender equality, and global migration.
You'll graduate with an insight into the powers and processes that have formed today's societies and how positive changes are made.
Armed with this understanding of the past, you'll be empowered to address the challenges of the future.
Discover how the politics of the past have shaped the world we know today on our interdisciplinary BA (Hons) History and Politics degree.
Meet one of our academics and learn about the opportunities you'll have here at Portsmouth.
Jodi Burkett
The theme of the course is changing the world.
The History and Politics course is really exciting because it really combines a good, deep understanding of history with current political ideas so you get a really good sense of why society in the world is the way that it is and also, what we can do about it.
The course is extremely interdisciplinary in that it creates a real foundation.
They get the foundation level four in both history and politics as well as optional modules, so they can go in depth in both the politics and the history side.
I think that really sets them up for a great career because it gives them the opportunity to see how different disciplines work and I think the theme really brings it together so we have lots of really interesting researchers who do work on NGOs and on social movements and on activism, and it brings all of that together to see both how the world currently works and how people are working now to change things, but also how they did in the past.
It's possible for students to do a full year placement which would make it a four year degree for them.
We have the placement and internship centre set up at the university to support them to find a placement that works for them.
I think the History and Politics course sets students up for a huge range of different kinds of career opportunities.
I would expect students to be able to go into local government or national government, or to be able to go into the heritage sector, to the third sector, and to charity work, to teaching, to all sorts of different kinds of things.
Portsmouth is a fantastic city to live in.
I really love living in Portsmouth.
It's really beautiful along the seafront.
There's lots of things.
There's always stuff going on because it's quite a vibrant city, especially in the student areas.
I think it's a really great place that combines a big city feel, but actually quite a close knit cohort of students and lecturers.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) History and Politics with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) History and Politics.
Studying history and politics together will give you transferable skills in critical thinking, collaboration, research, analysis and argument, all of which are highly valued by many kinds of employers.
You could also continue your studies at Master's or PhD level in history, politics or a combination of the two.
"As a graduate of a Humanities and Social Sciences degree, your skills will give you the flexibility to take on "careers in a variety of sectors including in those of enormous social value"
(The British Academy)
Graduates from our other history and politics courses have taken up roles in the following sectors:
Our history and politics alumni have worked with organisations including:
Roles our graduates from other history and politics courses have taken on include:
After your second or third year, you'll have the chance to do an optional year-long work placement to get valuable work experience in a sector of your choice.
Students from our other history and politics courses have secured placements at:
The sort of activities you could do during your placement year will depend on the field of your chosen placement.
Among other activities, our previous placement students have curated exhibitions, worked as paralegals, organised charity events, or supported MPs in their constituency offices.
We'll help you to identify opportunities and approach possible organisations and businesses.
You'll have support from our Placement and Internship Centre and a personal tutor throughout the year.
We can also help you find shorter placements, internships or volunteering opportunities in and around Portsmouth to complement your studies and build your CV.
Previous students have done projects for community groups and worked with heritage sites, archives, political parties and local government.
You'll explore theories of international relations, the nature of the international system, and factors like conflict, globalisation, and international organisations.
You'll also dive into key global issues such as climate change, gender, and human rights.
You'll gain an overview of the history of legal scholarship.
By the end of the module, you'll have a solid understanding and the ability to apply essential legal knowledge and skills.
This will prepare you to progress onto degree level study at the University of Portsmouth.
You'll learn to conduct research using both qualitative and quantitative methodologies.
You'll also enhance your ability to understand and construct arguments, evaluate the rationale and evidence behind claims, assess the credibility of sources, and deliver well-structured, critically reasoned arguments and opinions both verbally and in writing.
You'll explore ideas of human nature, the relationship between individuals and societies, the authority of the state, duties and rights, liberty and freedom, social justice, ethics, war and political violence.
By looking at the ideas of both historical and contemporary thinkers, you'll develop knowledge and understanding of the social and political contexts within which these ideas were developed as well as how they continue to inform our thinking about central issues in politics and international relations today.
On this module, you’ll reflect on a number of examples of revolutions and activism, both historically and politically, to explore how people in the past and present have tried to change the world they live in.
Through these examples you'll gain confidence in discussing the past and the present, presenting arguments, and in the foundational skills of university study.
You’ll also build on your skills for degree success - quality writing, critical thinking, referencing, research, source analysis, assessing political developments, data analysis and presenting.
You’ll explore social movements around a range of themes such as opposition to war, gender and sexuality, race, the environment and conservative and right-wing movements.
You’ll discover how ideas and tactics of social movements have changed over time, as well as examining some areas of continuity across the period.
Develop a nuanced understanding of how people organise against power.
You’ll begin by exploring how countries like Argentina, Chile and Brazil transitioned from military dictatorships to democracies towards the end of the 20th century.
You’ll also learn about the dramatic public protests and negotiations that eventually toppled these dictatorships in the late 20th century as part of the "Third Wave" of democratisation.
However, installing democratic systems has not been easy - you’ll also analyse the political, economic and social challenges that societies across the region are grappling with in the 21st century.
To what extent have the region's new democracies been able to challenge deep seated inequalities in class, gender and race/ethnicity?
And what do ordinary people think about development and democracy across the region?
You'll learn to apply political theories like intergovernmentalism and supranationalism to real-world issues such as EU enlargement and global influence.
Through case studies and analysis of primary sources, you'll gain the tools to critically assess the EU's evolving role in both European and global politics.
You’ll analyse the powers of key institutions like the Presidency, Congress and Supreme Court, and examine federal-state relations and the influence of lobbies and civil society groups.
You’ll also explore hot-button issues like gun control, abortion and capital punishment to see political divides up close.
You’ll explore real-world questions—like is there a link between fake news and the outcome of elections?
Or how far does aid help in establishing 'safe' and 'secure' societies and liberal democratic norms?
This will help you develop the tools to critically assess evidence, and then carry out your own independent research.
You'll think about what core concepts like freedom truly mean and why they ignite such passion and conflict.
You'll also examine your own assumptions on contested issues like gender, class, race and social justice.
By evaluating ties between visionary ideas and real-world movements, policies and power dynamics, you'll develop nuanced understanding the forces behind political change.
You'll investigate grassroots campaigners alongside major international NGOs - evaluating their tactics, contributions and accountability.
By probing the relationships between volunteer networks, businesses and government, you'll develop new ideas on what can and cannot be achieved by public advocacy.
Do civil society organisations challenge or reinforce the prevailing world order?
You'll examine three pivotal themes: the lead-up to and aftermath of the UK's EU referendum, the evolving dynamics of post-Brexit politics, and the shifting global role of the UK, Europe and the EU.
Throughout the module, you'll explore visual aspects of Brexit politics, key policy shifts and the roles of major political players in areas like immigration, foreign and security strategies, and party politics.
You'll get to grips with some of the most pressing security challenges currently facing policy makers, reflecting on new debates in security studies while critically examining the enduring relevance of strategic thought in the face of contemporary challenges.
You'll consider a range of contemporary events and issues, analysing the various modes and causes of contemporary global threats and the options and responses of those security actors tasked to deal with them.
You'll consider schools of thought from socialism to transhumanism, thinking about how they have created social movements that lasted decades.
By applying diverse ideological lenses to different ideas about human progress, you'll weigh up the insights and limits of utopian and dystopian thought in relation to how societies understand and address the challenges facing humanity in the twenty first century.
You'll evaluate diverse cases of religion intertwining with critical issues like nationalism, peacebuilding, violence and more.
Discussing the perspectives of policymakers to extremists, you'll tackle intriguing questions head on.
How do religious ideas still drive political agendas worldwide?
How does faith unite communities yet fuel divisions?
And could rediscovering religion's role in human life hold keys to solving global problems?
You'll rethink European (market) integration from the perspective of state, non-state, and regional actors across the globe, focusing on the question of how and to what extent EU institutions and policies have contributed to shaping international economic governance.
Tackling different interpretations of the EU as a regional and global power, you'll explore though-provoking questions: As the EU negotiates new trade deals and economic partnerships, who really benefits?
Does the EU attempt to use its global market power to create a safer world?
And to what extent have colonial legacies shaped the EU as an economic superpower?
Associate Head (Academic)
Mathias.Seiter@port.ac.uk
Jodi.Burkett@port.ac.uk
Lee.Sartain@port.ac.uk
We use a blended learning approach to teaching, which means your face-to-face teaching will be supported by online activities during your studies.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your History and Politics degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 13 hours a week.
To start BA (Hons) History and Politics in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) History and Politics with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-with-american-studies:
Study history with a focus on US history, culture and politics in this History with American Studies degree course.
Combine a wide-ranging history degree with an interdisciplinary focus on American studies.
If you want to explore history, while specialising in the politics and culture of the USA, there’s no better place to study it than Portsmouth, a city with a rich heritage of its own.
On this BA (Hons) History with American Studies degree, you'll benefit from expert teaching from history, politics and literature specialists as you explore the impact of the cultures of North America in the past and the present.
When you explore the USA, you'll examine contemporary and historical issues about American society, such as its politics and constitution, literature and culture, its foreign policy and global impact, the founding of the Republic, and minority and gender histories.
You'll develop your skills in research and analysis across global cultures, and gain sought-after workplace qualities in communication and teamwork.
To do this degree, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) History or the BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study History in depth and add American Studies as a complementary subject in years 2 and 3.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) History with American Studies degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) History course.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) History with American Studies with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) History with American Studies.
Employers from every area of industry value today’s history and American studies graduates.
When you complete the course, you'll have the ability to analyse and manage large amounts of information, communicate effectively, research in groups or independently, and write in a concise and informative way.
You can move forward to further study and research or put your degree to work in areas such as:
Studying for my BA (Hons) History with American Studies degree was transformative.
The staff cultivated a supportive environment and encouraged the development of a multitude of skills that helped me excel in both my academic pursuits and personal development.
Pauline Standley, BA (Hons) History with American Studies and winner of the Robbie Gray Memorial Prize for the Best Dissertation in History, Graduation 2023
After your second year, you can undertake an optional work placement year.
You’ll place the rights struggles in the USA of the twentieth century into a national and global perspective.
You’ll explore theories and strategies of activism, from integration and non-violence to radical concepts of resistance and tactics against mainstream white power structures.
You’ll also learn about social movement theory and discover the connections between the African American civil rights movement and other rights movements, including first and second wave feminism, Native American activism, LBGTQI+ movements, Hispanic/Latinix identities and Asian American groups.
There's a practical focus on this course.
You'll take part in group debates and discussions and get hands-on experience with different research and interview techniques.
You can build your personalised network of support from the following people and services:
You need to choose BA (Hons) History or BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year when you apply for this course, because this is a ‘pathway’ degree.
This is where you study History in depth and add American Studies as a complementary subject in years 2 and 3.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) History with American Studies degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can still choose not to study American Studies in years 2 and 3.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) History degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) History with American Studies in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) History with American Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-history-with-sociology:
Study history and how it relates to British and global society on this History with Sociology degree course.
History and sociology are complementary subjects.
Studying them in combination will help you explore the relationship between past and present and what matters in the world today and why.
If you’re fascinated by history, and how it relates to society, there’s no better place to study it than Portsmouth, a city teeming with the influences of the past.
On this BA (Hons) History with Sociology degree, you’ll pick the periods of time that interest you most, both in British and global history, and develop your skills in research and analysis.
You’ll explore pressing contemporary social issues and get an understanding of specialist areas of sociological study such as food, happiness, violence, sport, social class, gender and race.
After the course, you'll understand the different ways people encounter and engage with the world and key issues of social and political importance, ready to transfer to the workplace in roles that involve analysis, research, communication and teamwork.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) History or the BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study History in depth and add Sociology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) History with Sociology degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) History and BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) History with Sociology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) History with Sociology.
Employers from every area of industry value today’s history and sociology graduates.
Studying history with sociology will give you transferable skills in critical thinking, collaboration, research, analysis and argument.
You'll learn to apply intersectional theories to decode how racism intersects with privilege and oppression, and look at the rise of 'colour blind' racism in recent decades.
Through reflective analysis of case studies on both sides of the Atlantic, you'll develop your sociological imagination, critical thinking abilities, and passion for social justice.
By reviewing theories and debates around concepts like work-life balance and gender roles, you'll gain insight into how career choices can be influenced by social expectations and family pressures.
You'll bring these ideas together and consider the interesting ways in which 'what we do' and 'who we are' exist in a very close relationship with each other.
You'll look critically at corporate, state, technical and consumerist norms within our society, and how these powers-that-be are challenged by resistance from protest movements that highlight the ways society is failing those with the least power.
By investigating historical and modern case studies of revolutions and revolts, you'll think about how we can apply social justice and ethical practices to other societies by generating ideas and developing creative solutions of benefit to society and the economy.
You’ll debate ideas relating to wellness culture, self-help and self-improvement.
By examining theories of psychiatry and mental health, you’ll gain tools to analyse how individuals make sense of themselves and their own levels of happiness amidst complex social scripting.
This module will help you form your own nuanced perspectives on humanity’s timeless quest for meaning and inner peace.
You'll challenge assumptions about the subjective nature of personal taste as a marker of social class, examining how people make judgments about 'good' and 'bad' taste and how this brings them together and sets them apart.
You'll consider whether cultural attitudes have become more tolerant, as well as how culture provides meaning in the world through stories, symbols and sounds.
By examining celebrity culture and the attribution of value in society, you'll learn about cultural production and tensions with market forces, individual expression vs societal norms, and cultural appropriation vs appreciation.
You’ll consider the growth of interest in emotions in sociology, and examines their role in classical sociological theory.
Working in groups and workshops, you’ll weigh up debates on emotional life and apply them to real examples.
You’ll also explore sociological approaches to a range of distinct emotions, as well as the rise of therapy and self-help culture in contemporary western society.
On this module, you’ll explore radical frameworks for understanding and eradicating intersectional oppression.
We'll analyse different ways of challenging injustices, from interrupting homophobic microaggressions to disrupting the social impacts of global issues like the climate crisis.
You'll learn about how ideas like feminism, anti-racism and inclusive education can challenge domineering structures like capitalism, racism and patriarchy.
You’ll examine the politics of knowledge itself alongside ideas that empower the disadvantaged.
You need to choose BA (Hons) History or BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study History in depth and add Sociology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) History with Sociology degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study Sociology too.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) History degree when you complete the course.
To start this course in BA (Hons) History with Sociology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start this course in BA (Hons) History with Sociology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration:
Explore traditional and contemporary illustration and develop practical skills on this Illustration degree course.
W220,                      W223
Redefine the world with a pencil or stylus on this BA (Hons) Illustration degree course.
You’ll challenge convention in all spheres: from inspecting illustration from new perspectives, to delving into its social, political and historical significance.
You'll discover traditional and contemporary illustration techniques and the business essentials of the art form – and you can gain extra professional experience through a one-year placement, client projects, and entering design competitions.
Come explore your individual vision through experimentation and engage with a range of professional applications.
At the end of this course, you'll become an all-encompassing illustrator that stands out among competitors in the creative industries.
Dani Hackett graduated in 2021 with an Illustration degree from the University of Portsmouth.
She is now an Illustrator, Print Designer and Fashion Designer.
Find out what Dani’s role entails and how she’s applying the skills she learnt during her time at Portsmouth.
My name is Dani Hackett and I am an illustrator, print designer and fashion designer.
My love of illustration started literally as soon as I could pick up pen and draw.
Since then, I always knew I wanted to be an illustrator.
I think it wasn't really a choice either.
I think if I don't do anything creative, I'm miserable.
It's just purely a necessity for me.
I wanted to study at the University of Portsmouth because the illustration styles are so varied.
I think they really catered and nurtured people's individual styles.
I took every opportunity basically that they gave me at Portsmouth.
One of these was Adobe accreditations.
I also worked on film sets.
I entered competitions with Anglepoise.
They gave us the opportunity to do 'New Designers' in final year.
This is an exhibition where loads of industry professionals come and find the newest talent.
That is actually how I got my first job in fashion.
I got scouted by River Island when I was there.
I think about two weeks after I finished uni, I ended up working full time for them.
It was an amazing opportunity and a really good insight into how the fashion industry works.
It's insane, but it was definitely eye opening.
I wanted to go freelance purely because I wanted to drive my work into the direction that I really wanted to take.
I came up with the brand name Eyeland Paradise when I was at River Island, actually, because I was doing a lot of cutesy designs and very clean designs, I just wanted to come up with something completely different.
It mixes elements of my interest in horror and cult.
It's sustainable, we use vintage items and people's own clothes that we customise.
Basically, I just make stuff that I want to wear and people seem to like it.
I think my time at university changed my perception of how good I was, actually.
The beautiful thing about illustration is you can create a world that doesn't exist, and I think that's really magical.
It's kind of like playing God, but with a canvas.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Illustration with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Illustration.
If you don't meet the English language requirements yet, you can achieve the level you need by successfully completing a pre-sessional English programme
For more information on how to put together your portfolio, read our Illustration creative portfolio guide .
Our Workshops are ideal for model making, with high-grade kit for crafting wood, metal, plastics, polyurethane, concrete and plaster works.
Whether you're studying a creative degree or want to pick up some supplies, our Eldon Art Shop has the materials you'll need for your coursework or project.
Click on an image below to see more detail and read students' statements.
If you want to see more student work, browse our Graduate Show 2021 Illustration showcase .
What really stood out was how [the BA course] mixed creativity with the business of art… Because it’s all well and good having incredible work, but if you can’t find a client to pay for it, then where’s your career going?
Bo Sun Lam, BA (Hons) and MA Illustration alumnum
The creative and technical abilities you develop on this course – in sequential storytelling, character animation, and visual storytelling – could lead to a variety of creative roles in design and media.
You can also continue your studies at postgraduate level.
Areas previous graduates have included:
After your second or third year, you can take an optional year-long placement to gain on-the-job experience in industries needing illustrators and designers.
You can work for a company or organisation, or start up and run your own business.
Together with your peers – or by yourself – you'll build and launch a successful venture.
In either case, our Creative Careers team is on hand to assist.
Our students have been successful in a variety of placement roles, including:
Our students have completed their placements at companies such as:
Check out our Creative Careers team's blog to find out where fellow art, design and performance students have interned during their studies.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Illustration
Through research and established practices, you'll develop industry-relevant outcomes using both digital and analogue techniques to promote and showcase your work.
You’ll get better at using different ways of printing and promoting your work, mixing handmade and digital techniques.
By thinking about how to design books, you’ll make illustrations that really bring the words to life.
You’ll gain professional skills in creative and imaginative visual storytelling by experimenting and researching.
This module gives you everything you need to use all the tools of an illustrator, getting you ready for diverse creative roles.
You’ll look into how storytelling is used in images, using various examples.
Dive into different ways to come up with ideas in your sketchbook.
Match your methods to what the industry expects by trying out different techniques.
Learn to create illustrations that tell a story for particular audiences.
Analyse varied examples to develop your own style.
You’ll also learn how to turn complicated ideas into illustrations and understand where your work fits in the creative industries.
This module will help you sharpen your personal illustration style and get ready for real-world assignments.
You'll study how practitioners have used graphics to communicate persuasively on health topics.
Then, you'll develop your own awareness campaign.
You'll research issues in graphic medicine, experimenting with concepts and techniques and learn to tailor visual narratives for your audience.
This module is an opportunity to question perspectives and advocate through art.
Building your skills for illustration that educates, challenges and questions.
You'll use various research methods, analysing how images build stories across panels and pages.
And you'll experiment with different media and styles to find your voice.
This module develops your conceptual thinking as you interrogate principles and push boundaries of the medium.
You'll refine techniques that enhance flow and atmosphere and emerge with sharper skills for illustration in books, comics and storyboarding.
Analysing artists' books and literary sources, you will gain critical appreciation of sequence and narrative in printed works.
Experimenting with image/text interplay in analogue mediums, you can advance personal illustration style within the rich “book” tradition, intertwining communication and craft.
The module promises an imaginative journey into illustration’s storytelling roots.
Analysing how practitioners use editions to spotlight issues, you will devise impactful visual narratives around chosen causes.
Collaborating in an editorial team, you will plan, produce and distribute publications with professional integrity.
The module presents a chance to amplify unheard voices while adding an important string to your illustration bow.
You’ll try different methods and settings to create a drawing style that’s meaningful to you.
This module offers chances to grow professionally, like doing real-life drawing, experimental image-making, and working in public areas.
By the end, you’ll become more confident in your drawing skills.
This will add more to your set of creative tools, helping you succeed as an illustrator.
You’ll pick an idea and dive deep into researching it, trying out different things, and thinking critically about your work.
Your research skills, creative ideas, and artistic expertise will shine as your project flourishes.
By the end of this module, you’ll learn how to fit your work into professional and ethical standards.
You’ll also excel in self-learning, all while creating illustration work that really speaks to your audience.
This module is all about helping you grow into a successful illustrator by asking questions and getting creative on your own.
You'll learn to meet deadlines, fulfil requirements, master specialist software, and develop an authentic artistic brand that sizzles.
No drag here - just hands-on projects to refine technical skills while defining your signature style.
This module sparks your creative blaze to thrive within the commercial landscape.
Learn to adapt your gifts and wield a competitive edge when opportunity calls.
Prepare for hands on experience in responding to briefs with artistic fire.
By the finale, your illustration talents will be unleashed as industry-ready weapons, ready to thrill clients and activate success!
We'll explore concepts for planning, self-promotion, and building an electrifying portfolio to activate your passions.
Refine self-marketing materials with real industry hype tailored to hook future clients.
You'll develop the independent drive and tech abilities to propel your work across the modern digital universe.
Learn how to creatively engage and exhibit art online and IRL to pull in viewers and opportunities.
Thanks to this high-octane module your portfolio will be locked, your creative brand loaded, and your presence ready to soar across the professional stratosphere.
Time to take your illustration career into the stars!
In this module, you’ll think deeply about your own projects and learn to evaluate them critically.
This will help you explain the context and your understanding of your work to others.
Improve your skills in reflecting on your work, developing visual ideas, and researching the background of your projects.
You’ll do this both on your own and with feedback from others.
You’ll practice making presentations in different ways, so you can show off your practical work in various situations.
You’ll get better at sharing your ideas, answering questions, and explaining your artistic vision.
This module will give you valuable experience in presenting yourself and your work effectively—whether you’re networking, showing your work at an exhibit, or talking to potential clients.
There's an emphasis on hands-on practical sessions, with a strong studio culture.
You can also use many of the facilities and get support from Faculty staff in the evenings and weekends.
Your working hours may be different when you're on work placement, being up to 37.5 hours a week.
To start BA (Hons) Illustration in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Illustration with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – W223

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-interior-architecture-and-design:
Learn to transform building interiors and create exciting spaces on our Interior Architecture and Design degree course.
K120,                      K121
112-120 UCAS points to include a minimum of 3 A levels, or equivalent
Our BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design degree course is your chance to reimagine and transform existing buildings to create inspiring spaces for people to live, play, and work.
You'll develop the essential creative and technical skills, together with materials and construction knowledge, to create stunning interiors that are sustainable, inclusive and imaginative.
At Portsmouth, we believe that design should respond to many of the concerns in our world today.
Our course will enable you to become not only a designer who creates amazing spaces but also one with a responsible attitude of care for people and communities, the environment, and the future.
Now's the perfect time to think about how existing buildings can be used intelligently and with care to sustain communities and stimulate regeneration.
When you finish the course, you'll have the skills and experience for a range of career options, including interior design, lighting design, set design, brand consultancy and design management.
Mo Mostakin graduated in 2017 with an Interior Architecture and Design degree from the University of Portsmouth.
He is now an Interior Designer at HBA Residential.
Find out what Mo’s role entails and how he’s applying the skills he learnt during his time at Portsmouth.
Hi, my name is Mohammed.
I work as an interior designer at HBO Residential in London.
When I was younger, when I was in A-levels, I studied art.
During art, I used to do 12-hour photography walks, and one of the things I love to take photos of is buildings because, you know, they are inanimate objects, but they have so much character to them which I just love and I just fell into it.
I took the chance and applied for architecture originally, but then I fell into interior design and I studied interior.
The one thing I loved about Portsmouth is that it's quite close to friends, and it isn't far from London – and it almost felt like a mini-London to me.
It almost became home.
To a lot of outsiders, Interior Design is seen as a very feminine subject.
Me, I'm very technical.
Some of the girls in the course were very focused on textile, colours, how to make things work well together, you kind of learn from each other.
The one thing I loved about it is we came as close as a family and we just helped each other in different aspects.
It just brings everyone together.
A month before I graduated, like anyone, we were told to apply for jobs.
Look out, look what's out there.
One thing I used was the University of Portsmouth career page, which I managed to see HBO Associates on the list and they were looking for interns.
Having them on my CV is just amazing.
I'm working on projects in London, Saudi Arabia and Russia.
I used to do a few cruise ships.
You never have the same thing.
It's different.
Each client has their own taste though.
That's what I love is you're never in your comfort zone.
It pushes me further and further, and it makes me become more of a better designer and become more confident, especially one day I will present to clients and that is a big responsibility.
How do you sell your project to a real client?
They're paying for it so you want to be good and you want to sell it properly.
I've been here four years now, I transitioned from hospitality to residential, so you know, it's going well so far.
A relevant subject or experience in Art and Design is required.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our Architecture courses creative portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design.
Our open-plan learning spaces encourage a studio culture of collaboration, creativity and dialogue, preparing you for the ways of working you'll experience in your career.
Take centre stage in the futuristic world of extended reality (XR) with our SmartStage-powered Virtual Production and Mixed Reality Studio.
After the course, you'll have plenty of career options.
Previous graduates have worked in multi-disciplinary architectural design practices, commercial and retail practices, brand consultancies and film studios in roles such as:
Others have worked in industries such as education, events planning and retail management.
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level.
Work placements are an excellent way to gain professional experience between your second and final years of study, or after your third year, to further enhance your employment prospects after the course.
You can work for a practice, studio, or company, or set up and run your own business with other students or on your own.
Whichever you choose, you can get support from Creative Careers.
Meg Ryan – Morgan Sindall
As a Design Manager intern, Meg Ryan talks about her role and the lessons she's learned so far.
Read Meg's placement story
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
All modules in the first year of this BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design degree course are core.
You'll develop your architectural drawing and modeling skills as you learn hand drawing techniques as well as digital tools.
You'll prepare to represent your designs through sketches, diagrams, and renderings, and build on your previous studies to develop the key skills you need to prepare your designs for architectural portfolio presentations.
You'll take on design projects that push you to apply your skills and knowledge.
Through inquiry, iteration, and reflection, you'll develop a strong understanding of design concepts.
Working both individually and with peers, you'll experiment with space, materials, and user experience to refine your creative process.
You'll evaluate influential histories and theories that have shaped these creative practices.
More importantly, you'll learn to think critically about the context and real-world issues surrounding design.
Through discussions, projects and presentations, you'll develop your own perspectives on how design can address today's big issues.
Your communication skills will grow as you articulate original ideas through diverse media.
By the end, you'll have a deeper appreciation for the narratives, concepts and challenges that drive innovation in architecture and design.
You’ll dive into key structural concepts and eco-friendly approaches.
Learn about materials and building construction hands-on.
Understand the construction industry better through research.
Work in teams to look at the technical details that affect design.
By directly exploring technologies shaping buildings, you’ll lay the groundwork for including these insights in your own designs.
Develop an appreciation for the art and science of construction.
You’ll improve on the basics by mastering technical and expressive methods, from digital tools to handmade crafts.
Convey materials, atmosphere, and lighting in your drawings.
Create your own unique visual style by mixing traditional ways of showing your work with more experimental images.
Put together and analyse presentation sheets that showcase your top work.
By refining your skills in 2D, 3D, and mixed media, you’ll become more versatile at presenting engaging design ideas.
You’ll start by exploring the history and setting of a site to find opportunities for renewal.
Understanding and interpreting needs helps you create original project briefs.
You’ll look at past examples and come up with ideas to give old spaces a new look.
Learn how to update buildings and interiors that honour their history.
You’ll come up with innovative ways to reuse spaces, keeping the climate crisis in mind.
Show off your plans for bringing new life and purpose to places.
You’ll finish this module with an experience and approach to design that will help you in projects that add fresh energy to our built surroundings.
You’ll explore the building’s unique features and possibilities through direct research.
Use what you find to create fresh ideas for amazing spaces.
Improve your plans by drawing, making models, and having discussions.
Present an original proposal that meets complex requirements.
Think deeply about your design choices and how you share them.
This module will boost your research, idea-making, and presentation skills.
These are all key for an interior designer’s creativity.
Let the surroundings you discover inspire stunning interior designs.
Experiment with textiles, metals, wood, composites, and more to learn their properties and how they’re made.
Look into new technologies, such as smart materials and digital manufacturing methods.
Learn from previous examples to see how these materials are used.
Choose materials wisely, keeping in mind sustainability and people’s wellbeing.
Use what you’ve learned to create detailed technical drawings and actual designs.
By deeply understanding materials, construction, and environment systems, you'll make thoughtful design choices.
These choices will be based on real-world practice.
All modules in the final year of this BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design degree course are core.
This project will showcase your distinctive style and skills.
You’ll inspect locations, people, and design theories to craft a detailed brief and vision.
Try out different ideas to shape a beautiful, functional design that makes spaces enjoyable to be in.
Expert lecturers will help sharpen your research, spatial design, presentation, and material-choosing skills—all focused on interior spaces.
You’ll finish this module with stunning work showing how you can turn deep research into a clear design story, then into a real, creative solution.
This is your stepping stone to a fulfilling design career.
You'll respond to briefs and spatial needs through experimentation and critical analysis.
Investigate materials and precedents to understand technical challenges.
Communicate final proposals effectively through visual, oral, and written presentation.
Follow your passions by picking an architectural topic that interests you.
With support from a tutor, you’ll sharpen your research, writing, and design abilities — but the project is yours.
Look into existing literature and past examples to set the stage for your innovative ideas.
Use creative methods to explore and shape your research.
Analyse different contexts to tackle a specific issue.
Discuss your findings to show your academic and professional insight.
This is your chance to dive deep into the research process.
You can present your findings in a well-structured dissertation or a design portfolio.
This module is all about you taking the lead, allowing you to highlight your interests while gaining in-depth knowledge.
In Part 1, you’ll learn about professional processes, ethics, and the thoroughness in design that clients and companies look for.
Part 2 is all about promoting yourself.
You’ll create things like a CV that showcases your talents and put together an impressive portfolio.
You’ll also work in groups to organise events that will help you meet potential employers.
This module will give you a look into how the design business works and improve your communication skills.
You’ll be well-prepared for a unique and influential career.
You’ll experiment and prototype to discover different materials.
Learn how to choose materials and sharpen your design skills.
Look into ethical material use by studying different cultures and responsibilities.
You’ll create detailed small-scale interior designs.
Understand how to use materials in building structures, considering their properties and how they meet user needs.
Gain skills in selecting, drawing, and detailing various finishes and products.
Let materials guide your design ideas, strengthening your spatial concepts.
This module gives you both the theory and practical know-how to use materials.
Your work here will help you with your major interior project and prepare you for more study and professional work.
Nigel.Simpkins@port.ac.uk
Dario.Pedrabissi@port.ac.uk
Rachael.Brown@port.ac.uk
Suzanne.Fallouh@port.ac.uk
Enrique.Moya-Angeler@port.ac.uk
Katie.Wilmot@port.ac.uk
You'll be assessed by:
You'll get feedback on all practice and formal assessments so you can improve in the future.
One of the key differences between school or college and university is how much control you have over your learning.
All our activities are face-to-face unless there's a good reason to do them online.
The design studio will be the primary base where you'll engage in individual and group projects.
Typically, this will involve preparing projects for presentation at regular reviews and being guided in your design process by both staff and fellow students.
Other modules will be lecture or project-based.
As well as attending your timetabled classes, you'll study independently in your free time, supported by staff and our virtual learning environment, Moodle.
The University has provided me with support throughout, and there have been many great opportunities, including a field trip to Venice and working with the Creative Careers team.
Jessica Burton, BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design graduate
We will supply you with a printing allowance but you will incur additional printing costs on portfolio work of between £50–£200.
You may incur material costs on a project which will vary from £20–£100.
Optional study trips abroad will cost in the region of £300–£700.
To start BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design in 2026, You'll need:
To start BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – K121
You can also sign up to an Open Day :

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-development:
Build skills, knowledge and experience relating to some of the major global challenges of our time.
Study key dimensions of global development and co-operation.
L902,                      L905
On this BA (Hons) International Development degree course, you’ll learn to address some of the major global challenges of our time such as poverty and hunger, environmental sustainability, universal education and health care.
You'll expand your understanding of the role and purpose of cooperation between governments, international organisations and non-governmental organisation (NGOs) in international development, using this to gain insights into strategies to improve people's lives on a global scale.
This course is ideal for a national and international career in roles such as community development, advocacy, policy development and public affairs.
You'll have the confidence and ability to take what you learn on this course to make a positive impact in areas such as gender equality and women’s empowerment, democracy, human rights and conflict and security.
The University of Portsmouth is ranked the number 1 modern university for research quality in Area Studies.
Research Excellence Framework (REF), 2021
Hear from our students and staff about our courses in international development, on which you can explore topics such as global health, gender inequality, cultural diversity, indigeneity, and development economics.
As well as learning about societies and cultures around the world, you can also combine your studies with learning a language.
Isabelle Cockel: This is a course where we can know the world better.
Ben Garner: International Development at the University of Portsmouth, it's a very interdisciplinary programme that reflects the real area studies expertise of the staff here.
Isabelle Cockel: My colleagues and I have our own regional expertise.
Some colleagues specialise in Africa, South Asia, Latin America, Central Asia and Europe.
Lana Chikhungu: I think the course at Portsmouth is special.
Most of the students that actually come to do the course do have that caring aspect of wanting to serve the world.
Isabelle Cockel: Each part of the region has their own particular issues.
Ben Garner: Things like global health, gender inequality, cultural diversity, indigeneity, indigenous rights, racial inequality, development economics.
It's an opportunity as well to learn about societies and cultures from different parts of the world and perhaps to combine that with a study of a language too.
Isabelle Cockel: The languages that students could take together with a degree are Chinese, French and Spanish.
Ben Garner: Having those extra languages means that students are more employable.
It opens doors for them in the future in terms of travel, it enriches their time at university and potentially enriches their life in the future.
Millie Rose: I saw the course and I really liked the themes that were in each module and the different variety of modules.
I also really like the fact that you had the option to do a year abroad.
Giulia: I went to my placement for my language in Taiwan.
One of the things that I actually learned from this experience was living and getting adapted to new, different cultures.
Lana Chikhungu: With a placement year, obviously you have the skills of learning the language even further, but also having some work experience.
Giulia: It was a different opportunity that you can’t experience day by day.
Ben Garner: Students have gone on to work in a real range of roles after graduation.
Isabelle Cockel: They could become a journalist.
Ben Garner: Working for international non-governmental organisations.
Isabelle Cockel: They can become a diplomat.
Ben Garner: Students have gone on to postgraduate study.
Millie Rose: I am currently working as a support worker for a youth transition programme based in southern Mexico.
Isabelle Cockel: They can find work in their home country or they can go and work in other countries because this kind of knowledge is vitally needed now.
Jo De Serrano OBE: University of Portsmouth has always got a place in my heart.
I had a great time there.
The skills I learnt totally stood me in good stead for a future career.
The course had great teachers and I'm in contact with them still.
They really brought it to life for me.
Millie Rose: I really like the forward thinking nature of the university.
Giulia: Not many universities have this course and it was amazing.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Development with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Development.
When you graduate, you'll have an extensive range of skills including analysis, criticism and argument, communication and problem-solving that you can use in your future role advocating for and creating pathways to positive change.
You'll be ready to take on roles in organisations that put people at the heart of their strategies and policies, in areas such as policy and outreach.
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level with a Master’s in International Development, or take the next step into research that could inform policy with a PhD.
Discover the areas you could make a difference in by exploring the research taking place at Portsmouth around Area Studies and Global Governance .
No matter what route you take, the skills and knowledge you develop on this course will prepare you for a rewarding role making a difference in the lives of others.
This course gives you the skills for careers in areas such as:
Our graduates have gone on to roles such as:
Our graduates have worked for non-governmental organisations (NGOs), government departments and companies such as:
After your second or third year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in international development, giving you the chance to grow your professional network and enhance your CV.
We'll give you all the support you need to find a placement that prepares you for your career, and we'll continue to mentor you throughout your placement.
Students have completed work placements at organisations such as:
Catherine O’Gorman, International Development student
As part of your core course programme, you’ll take part in a 'mini' internship connected to an ongoing research project at the University.
You’ll choose from a number of internships that have been carefully selected by your lecturers to further develop your skills in areas critical to a career in international development, such as communication and project management.
A previous student interned in a communications role for Gender Focus, a research team involved in areas such as gender-based violence and cultural practices that harm women and girls.
Their responsibilities included social media management of the Instagram account and organising research webinars.
Volunteering for local, national and international charities is a great way to build up work experience before graduating into the world of international development.
Taking on a role with a local charity, or interning over the summer for a non-governmental organisation (NGO) shows future employers you have a passion for making a difference and an independent drive to develop your skills in the industry.
To give you the best chance of securing a great job when you graduate, our Careers and Employability service can help you identify internships, voluntary roles and opportunities to match your ambitions.
Our Volunteering Team in the Careers and Employability Service supports around 100 local and national charities and not-for-profit organisations.
Each year, our students volunteer more than 60,000 hours at organisations including Motiv8, the Mary Rose Museum, Citizens Advice Havant, Portsmouth Football Club and Portsmouth Mediation Service.
In 2019/20 student volunteers alone contributed £493,700 to the local economy.
Rebecca Rees, International Development student
You have the option to take the Learning From Experience (LiFE) module – getting credit from paid/unpaid work, volunteering, research placements, internships and other work related learning, including self-employment.
You'll have the freedom to arrange your own activities, and we'll support your achievements through workshops, events and tutorials.
You'll hone your abilities in writing, analytical thinking, research, public speaking and networking alongside your fellow students and supported by your personal tutor, alumni and experts in your field.
You'll develop an awareness of conceptual frameworks and methodologies, and learn how to find and analyse sources and data to support your ideas.
You'll study the changing relationships between the different organisations involved in international aid and development, including multilateral and bilateral development organisations and nongovernmental actors.
You'll also look at trends in development thinking and place development within the wider context of global capitalism.
You'll begin to explore key themes, such as the making of the modern world, war and peace, security, diplomacy, sovereignty, climate change and development, as well as the various ways to conceptualise and analyse these issues.
By the end of the module, you'll have developed a critical understanding of International Relations, gained insights into the historical foundations of the modern world, and engaged with a range of contemporary global issues.
This comprehensive introduction prepares you for further studies and encourages you to question and analyse the complex dynamics of world politics.
You'll move from understanding ‘crisis’ as a catastrophic event requiring transformative action, to the notion of ‘polycrisis’ as a deeper systemic state of instability and insecurity.
In doing so, you'll explore a range of interconnected crises related to climate change, geopolitical conflict, global health, economic issues and human rights concerns.
You'll learn diverse perspectives on formulating and presenting policy, taking into account key variables like leadership, security, and global dynamics.
You'll deploy theories to critically analyse major decisions and their outcomes, strengthening your understanding through case studies of milestone events.
You'll also debate and discuss how policy intersects with national interests and global security, and build skills to explain and evaluate policies coherently.
You'll engage with key theories and tackle major issues like global inequality, climate change, and shifting power dynamics between regions.
By examining who governs the global economy and in whose interests, you’ll gain the critical tools to understand and analyse today’s most pressing economic and political challenges.
You'll assess the strategic control of space and resources alongside economic competition, and examine Africa's rich potential alongside its enduring struggles, from human security to gender equity and beyond.
You'll develop a nuanced understanding of the continent as a crucial nexus of cooperation and conflict between foreign interests.
You'll tackle questions such as, what is capitalism and in whose interests does it work?
Do some models of capitalism work better than others?
Can we reconcile capitalist modes of production and consumption with protecting our environment?
Examine relevant political economy theory and open up debates about power, multinational capital, gender, identity and climate crisis.
You'll critically examine the concepts of ethnicity, race and culture historically and theoretically, using regional case studies from Latin America, Africa and those of indigenous peoples.
You'll consider these regional case studies alongside recent developments at the international level regarding cultural and indigenous rights and struggles around racial inequality and violence.
You'll complete the module with a major project on a region of the world of your choice.
You'll explore France's foreign policies, defence strategies and power dynamics within Europe and beyond.
Spend time thinking critically about its international influence and motivations, and learn how other regions of the world view its actions, from 'special' ties with former colonies to controversial stances on key issues.
This module will help you develop the skills to unpack complex geopolitical questions.
You'll gain a deeper understanding of France's bid to remain an influential force in our rapidly changing world.
Using feminist and intersectional theories, you'll examine how gender intersects with race, class, sexuality, and disability to affect access to rights and opportunities.
You'll analyse inequality across sectors like politics, education, and healthcare, and consider how change happens through activism, policy, and law.
Take a look at our other international development courses to compare your options.
My course has taught me about environmental issues, gender inequality, community development practice and much more.
Alexander Sykes, BA Hons International Development student
Ben.Garner@port.ac.uk
Professor of International Development Studies
Tamsin.Bradley@port.ac.uk
UoA Coordinator (Area Studies)
Lana.Chikhungu@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons International Development degree.
You'll need to pay additional costs anywhere between £50–£1,000 to cover travel, accommodation or subsistence if you take a placement abroad.
The amount you'll pay will vary, depending on the location and length of your stay.
It will also depend on additional funding the UK Government makes available after Brexit and if the UK remains part of the Erasmus+ student mobility programme or not.
To start BA (Hons) International Development in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Development with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
If you are keen to get reading over the summer before you arrive, there are a couple of recommended books below.
Both of these are also useful companions to your first year of study on the International Development programme – and beyond.
You will be able to access both of these from the university library when you arrive (either in hardcopy or as electronic e-books), but if you were looking to invest in some summer reading to give yourself a bit of a headstart then either or both of these would be a good investment.
I regularly dip into these books for my own teaching and research.
This book tackles some of the biggest questions in the world today: what are the causes of global poverty and hunger, and how can they be overcome?
The author challenges conventional wisdom on these issues and lays out a sophisticated and inspiring account, written in an accessible style.
Compared to Hickel's book above, this is more of a "text-book" type book, which contains a number of very accessible, introductory chapters on thematic areas such as aid and development, health and development, education and development, etc.
It is an excellent textbook that equips you with key foundational knowledge in the field of international development, and is required reading in your first year.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-development-and-languages:
Examine the role and purpose of international development and develop fluency in your chosen languages on this International Development and Languages degree.
LR90,                      LR95
96-112 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent
Work towards fluency in a foreign language (or two) while exploring solutions to global social challenges such as poverty and hunger, environmental sustainability, universal education and health care.
On this BA (Hons) International Development and Languages degree course, you'll study one language from beginner's level (French, Spanish, Mandarin Chinese) or post-A level (French, Spanish).
As of 2021, these three languages are spoken as first or second languages by 1,930 billion people worldwide.
You'll also get the chance to learn a second language: French, Spanish, Mandarin Chinese, Arabic, Japanese, German or British Sign Language (BSL).
You'll get full support to build your language skills to fluency alongside opportunities to apply your learning to work with not-for-profit organisations in developing countries on placement.
You'll graduate prepared for a career in organisations around the globe, in roles such as in government, teaching and working with non-government organisations (NGOs).
I love how I was able to study a language from beginner alongside International Development.
Also the range of options meant that I have been able to grow and develop in areas that I am particularly interested in
Ellie Bromley, BA (Hons) International Development and Languages student
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Development and Languages with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Development and Languages.
The British Council has stated that "an understanding of other cultures and languages will continue to be important for successful international relationships at all levels" ( Languages for the Future , 2017).
Along with the language skills you develop on this course, you'll graduate with a confidence in analysis, criticism and argument, communication and problem-solving – skills you can use in your future role advocating for and creating pathways to positive change.
"We must improve language abilities worldwide if we are to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, adopted in 2015 by 193 countries to "end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all."
The Salzburg Statement for a Multilingual World (2017)
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level with a Master’s, or take the next step into research that could inform policy with a PhD.
Discover the areas you could make a difference in by exploring the research taking place at Portsmouth around Global Governance and Languages and Applied Linguistics .
I have learnt about the impact a language can have in development and how important it is to be able to communicate locally, especially with community development projects.
After your second year, you'll do a year abroad based in one or more countries where your chosen language is spoken.
This enables you to build linguistic and cultural fluency, and also provides an opportunity to study abroad and/or gain valuable longer-term work experience in international development.
We'll give you all the support you need to find a work or study abroad placement that prepares you for your career, and we'll continue to mentor you throughout your placement.
Previous students have completed a variety of activities on their year abroad including:
Through hands-on experience, you’ll explore how research in languages and linguistics is designed and carried out, engaging with real studies and reflecting on different approaches.
By the end, you’ll be equipped with the critical thinking and practical skills needed to tackle your final year project and beyond.
Through seminars on authentic texts, you'll develop skills for comprehending written and spoken French on diverse topics.
Building grammar, vocabulary, and fluency, you'll discuss current events, share opinions, and present ideas - all in French.
Engaging with specialist academic texts boosts your academic literacy, and by reading complex materials, writing accurately, and expressing yourself orally with nuance, you'll gain practical French abilities.
Supported by independent study and a series of language seminars, you'll develop a journalist article in French.
You’ll use diverse French source material for your project, from written to audio-visual, and take part in individual and group presentations on French cultural, social or current affairs.
You'll take part in focused seminars on vocabulary building, presentation skills, and writing, alongside independent language tasks.
The module also helps you develop key graduate skills, including communication, teamwork, and self-directed learning.
You will mainly focus on grammar activities, writing, reading and listening comprehension,
Through seminars on authentic texts, you'll develop skills for comprehending written and spoken Spanish on diverse topics.
Building grammar, vocabulary, and fluency, you'll discuss current events, share opinions, and present ideas - all in Spanish.
Engaging with specialist academic texts boosts your academic literacy, and by reading complex materials, writing accurately, and expressing yourself orally with nuance, you'll gain practical Spanish abilities.
You’ll examine how nations promote or suppress languages, and how identity is expressed through symbols and film.
In the second half, you'll be introduced to professional language services like subtitling, dubbing, post-editing, and interpreting—gaining hands-on experience while reflecting on the skills needed for work in the language industry.
You'll mainly focus on grammar activities, writing, reading and listening comprehension.
You’ll focus on speaking and writing for tourism, travel and business, and learn through films, songs, conversations and cultural tips.
You’ll build language accuracy and confidence by presenting information and ideas, helping you become an independent and collaborative language learner.
You will mainly focus on grammar activities, writing, reading, and listening comprehension.
You will focus on grammar, writing, reading and listening comprehension.
Moving beyond everyday French, you'll analyse complex texts from media, literature, and academia and with class discussions in French on specialist topics related to living abroad you’ll hone your verbal fluency.
Building on your existing abilities, you'll communicate confidently, express opinions, and present ideas.
This module provides the advanced language abilities, critical thinking, and intercultural competence to thrive in diverse French-speaking contexts.
You will develop an awareness of business cultures and practices in the target countries and a range of communication and intercultural skills applied to different workplace contexts.
This will help you when seeking employment and when living and working abroad.
You will also engage in job interview activities and learn how to work as a team to produce business reports with a marketing element.
You'll learn how to discuss specialist topics in a variety of subject areas by analysing a range of authentic written, audio and visual media and expand your verbal fluency.
By learning to write confidently in formal and informal styles, you'll build your understanding of complex Spanish across diverse contexts and sharpen your ability to express yourself confidently.
Seminars on grammar, reading, writing, listening and speaking provide a toolkit to thrive in Spanish-speaking communities.
On this module, you’ll get an introduction to translation skills to open new worlds.
You’ll learn practical techniques while translating authentic texts, explore different genres and languages and discuss real-world translation challenges.
You’ll develop professional skills for potential careers in this field.
Through films, news reports and texts from across the Francophone world, discuss engaging topics from travel adventures to current affairs.
You’ll learn to communicate naturally in academic, professional and social situations while appreciating linguistic nuances.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of diverse French-speaking societies through lively classes and seminars.
Through films, news reports and texts from across the Mandarin-speaking world, discuss engaging topics from travel adventures to current affairs.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of diverse Mandarin-speaking societies through lively classes and seminars.
Through films, news reports and texts from across the Spanish-speaking world, discuss engaging topics from travel adventures to current affairs.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of diverse Spanish-speaking societies through lively classes and seminars.
You’ll hone your French speaking through debates, presentations and interviews, and refine your formal and informal writing across diverse genres.
You’ll also deepen your cultural understanding through exposure to sociolinguistic nuances and conventions, ready to communicate effectively in French-speaking communities worldwide.
You’ll hone your Mandarin speaking through debates, presentations and interviews, and refine your formal and informal writing across diverse genres.
You’ll also deepen your cultural understanding through exposure to sociolinguistic nuances and conventions, ready to communicate effectively in Mandarin-speaking communities worldwide.
You’ll hone your Spanish speaking through debates, presentations and interviews, and refine your formal and informal writing across diverse genres.
You’ll also deepen your cultural understanding through exposure to sociolinguistic nuances and conventions, ready to communicate effectively in Spanish-speaking communities worldwide.
Living and learning in your chosen country where your language of study is spoken, you'll improve your language skills and develop your cross-cultural understanding.
With international experience, you'll develop your subject knowledge, analytical abilities and self-confidence.
Fresh perspectives and a global outlook will mean you'll return home prepared for the next steps in your degree and your career.
You'll learn how to analyse various genres of source texts, apply translation techniques and translation theory in a way that helps you to achieve clear meaning, and produce commercially acceptable translations.
Working with your fellow students, you’ll simulate real-world translation agency environments and learn how to produce translations as a team.
You'll also work on your skills in written and verbal communication, critical analysis and intercultural awareness, all of which are essential for a career in the language services sector.
By understanding authentic texts and media in diverse tones and registers, you'll gain broad exposure to regional variations.
Through dynamic discussions and academic presentations in advanced French, you'll build your verbal fluency on current issues and hone your writing skills across formal and informal styles, as your express nuanced ideas with accuracy.
Graduate with the advanced French proficiency, analytical abilities, and cross-cultural competence to communicate effectively across your degree and career.
Through dynamic discussions and academic presentations in advanced Mandarin, you'll build your verbal fluency on current issues and hone your writing skills across formal and informal styles, as your express nuanced ideas with accuracy.
Graduate with the advanced Mandarin proficiency, analytical abilities, and cross-cultural competence to communicate effectively across your degree and career.
Through dynamic discussions and academic presentations in advanced Spanish, you'll build your verbal fluency on current issues and hone your writing skills across formal and informal styles, as your express nuanced ideas with accuracy.
Graduate with the advanced Spanish proficiency, analytical abilities, and cross-cultural competence to communicate effectively across your degree and career.
Working in groups with other taking your language combination (French/English, German/English, Mandarin/English or Spanish/English), you’ll complete exercises and tasks aimed at developing and improving your skills in public speaking, speech analysis and synthesis, memory and note-taking techniques, vocabulary reactivation, speech reformulation and communication.
You’ll also create and maintain a blog to review your own practice, your peers' practice and how theory underpins practice.
You’ll design a website for a company, charity or NGO in your chosen language, giving you real-world experience in web design, marketing and using your language skills in an international workplace.
You’ll also design a viable project proposal, research the latest information in your field, analyse data to reach conclusions, reflect on your learning, and communicate your findings to a professional audience.
You’ll work again in groups separated by language combination to undertake interpreting training supported by speech analysis and delivery, memory and note-taking, vocabulary, reformulation and communication exercises.
Specifically, you'll demonstrate actively listening to general and specialised speech and show well-developed, real-life communication skills.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons International Development and Languages degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 12 hours a week.
You can meet students from all over the world at the Global Café on Wednesday afternoons.
Learn about other's cultures and practise speaking in each other's languages while making new friends and getting to share your own culture.
Meet with a language tutor, get help with specific challenges and practise your skills with proficient speakers of your chosen language in this optional weekly drop-in session.
In your third year, you’ll need to fund the costs of travel, transport and accommodation for your study or work placement abroad.
If you study at one of our partner universities, you won’t need to pay fees at your host institution, but there may be other costs, such as visa, insurance or extra tuition.
If you work abroad, our Placement and Internship Centre will help you source an internship, which may be paid or unpaid.
You’ll be eligible for a discounted rate on your University of Portsmouth fees.
Currently, this discount is 90% of the year’s fees.
To start BA (Hons) International Development and Languages in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Development and Languages with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-development-with-sociology:
Analyse contemporary social issues and inequalities while exploring the major global challenges of our time.
Do you want to understand society on a global scale?
On this International Development with Sociology degree, you'll analyse contemporary social issues and inequalities as you explore the major global challenges of our time.
You'll look at issues like poverty, hunger, education and health, from national and international perspectives.
You'll gain multi-disciplinary skills as you work with lecturers from both the sociology and international development teams.
When you complete the course successfully, you'll have the communication and analysis skills to enter contemporary graduate careers.
You'll also be well placed for further study.
We have a variety of affordable accommodation options, with en-suite halls from £131 per week.
See our halls
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) International Development or the BA International Development with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study International Development in depth and add Sociology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) International Development and BA (Hons) International Development with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology.
This International Development with Sociology degree will give you an extensive range of skills, from analysis, criticism and argument, to communication, research and critical thinking - all of which you'll need in your future career.
You'll be ready to take on roles in local, national or international organisations that put people at the heart of their strategies, in areas such as research, shaping social policy or bringing about social change.
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level with a Master’s in International Development or Sociology, or take the next step into research that could inform policy with a PhD.
Our BA (Hons) International Development graduates have gone on to roles such as:
Our BA (Hons) International Development and BA (Hons) Sociology graduates have worked for non-governmental organisations (NGOs), government departments and companies such as:
After your second year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in international development, giving you the chance to grow your professional network and enhance your CV.
BA (Hons) International Development and BA (Hons) Sociology students have completed work placements at organisations such as:
You'll get an overview of key areas like observation, interpretation, and critical analysis.
This module helps you appreciate the interdisciplinary nature of anthropology and intercultural studies.
You'll gain an appreciation for the interdisciplinary nature of people and their environment, understanding how people, politics, and place are intertwined.
You'll also be introduced to criminology, analysing urban crime from a sociological perspective, its causes, and its effects on society.
You'll examine key moments like the World Wars, the Cold War, and decolonisation, while analysing how violence continued in different forms.
By thinking historically—focusing on context, causality, and change—you’ll challenge Eurocentric narratives and gain new perspectives valuable to the study of Politics, International Relations, and Development.
On this module, you’ll explore the sociological significance of education.
Moving beyond the classroom, you’ll explore how schooling shapes identities and uphold society - for better or worse.
Through iconic texts, you’ll interrogate big ideas around inequality, control and reform, and form your own views taking into account pressing issues like class, gender and race.
With hundreds of thousands of individuals from Africa and the Middle East attempting to breach borders by land and sea, many are asking questions regarding the responsibilities of Western nations, and 'the West' generally, for this mass movement of people.
On this module, you'll explore the nationalism that shapes many peoples' attitudes towards migrants, through lenses of history, identity and global inequality.
You'll examine anxieties around border breaches and cultural change - investigating how privilege and national identity shape perspectives.
Charles.Leddy-Owen@port.ac.uk
Naheem.Jabbar@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons International Development with Sociology degree.
You need to choose BA (Hons) International Development or BA (Hons) International Development with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study International Development in depth and add Sociology as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology degree when you complete the course.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) International Development degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Development with Sociology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations:
Study global issues such as the causes of conflict, the challenges of managing migration and the rise of populism on this International Relations degree course.
L253,                      L255
Examine the major issues affecting the world.
Discover why nation states rise and fall.
Take a closer look at the factors behind international conflict, and learn the role state leaders, NGOs, civil society and activists play in solving these problems.
On this BA (Hons) International Relations degree, you'll explore topics like global migration and the rise of populist politics around the world.
You’ll learn the skills required to play your part in improving equality and enacting positive change.
And after graduation, you’ll be ready for careers in local and national government, security, tech, intelligence, and with international charities and institutions like the UN.
The University of Portsmouth is ranked the number 1 modern university for research quality in Area Studies
Research Excellence Framework , (REF) 2021
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Relations with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Relations.
I love Portsmouth, I love the university, every tutor and lecturer I had over the three years was really supportive, and my course was brilliant.
Joseph Bridgebrowne, BA (Hons) International Relations
On this course, you can study history or international development alongside your international relations degree.
This will lead to one of these awards at the end of the course:
Hear from our students about why they love studying international relations.
Learn more about the variety of subjects, your career opportunities and what makes the University of Portsmouth special.
Dr Aishling Mc Morrow: International relations is how states interact in the international system.
As you can imagine, it's really broad and we look at many different topics and issues within that.
It's not just states that we look at: it's non-governmental organisations, it's terrorist organisations and how they all interplay and interact with each other to make up this thing, that is the international system.
India: I wanted to study this course because I've always had an interest in politics, and I felt that this course would provide me with opportunities to expand that knowledge while also gaining a greater global perspective on political issues.
Samantha: I had my 'aha' moment when I actually came to Portsmouth and my foundation programme was law with international relations because I wasn't sure which one I wanted to do.
I actually spoke to a lecturer, and I was like, "Should I do IR or should I change to law?" and it was her passion for me that really sold me and I really found myself identifying with it, and then that's when I knew like, "okay, this is it".
Dr Aishling Mc Morrow: I think what students are attracted to is the variety of the course.
So one day you could be studying conflict and security, and then the next day you might be studying development aid.
Which are polar opposites, and they're different worlds, but you get to do that within your course.
Samantha: It teaches you to see people from another perspective and I think that's really important, not just in diplomacy, but in everyday life.
Joshua: The modules, they're so broad and vast so people can find their niches within that.
So there you can find, "okay, this is what I stand for."
Dr Aishling Mc Morrow: There are a lot of career opportunities.
We have students working with the U.N.
High Commissioner of Refugees, working in the House of Congress in the U.S.
and working as researchers with Parliament in the U.K.
Johannes: I don't think I picked Portsmouth, I think Portsmouth picked me.
This course really motivates me in this way to just go the extra mile, really do the reading, turn up and just invest my time and energy.
Dr Aishling Mc Morrow: The reason why I think students should study and come to the University of Portsmouth is because what our courses enable our students to do, is look at the events that's happening in the world today and have the ability to process them and critically analyse them and to question the information that's put in front of them.
Aleksandra: Ever since I've started to study International Relations I've completely fallen in love with it.
First, when I got to my seminars or lectures, I felt like Alice in Wonderland exploring the world from completely different angles I would never think about before and that's what got me.
The analytical skills you’ll develop on this course are in demand – your ability to understand complex issues and find solutions to them means that roles across government agencies, NGOs, charities, think tanks and international organisations are all within your reach.
And with technology continuing to develop at a frantic pace, there’s an ever-increasing demand for graduates with the knowledge required to ensure new developments are ethical.
When you finish the course, our Careers and Employability service can help you find a job that puts your skills and cultural experience to work.
Graduates from this degree have gone on to careers in the following sectors:
After your second or third year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Taking an optional placement year will give you the experience you need to increase your chances of landing your perfect role.
Previous students have been on placements to organisations such as:
Recent graduates have gone on to roles including:
During my degree, I was lucky enough to be a delegate at Harvard’s National Model United Nations Conference with hundreds of other university students from around the world.
Samantha Chihuri, BA (Hons) International Relations
You'll explore both mainstream and critical perspectives—such as Feminism, Post-Structuralism, and Post-Colonialism—and compare how they interpret and analyse global politics.
The module encourages you to think critically about the role of theory and how different approaches can be used to engage with real-world international issues and strengthen your own academic work.
You'll analyse how history, geography, culture, economics and politics converge to impact wellbeing in specific countries and worldwide.
You'll weigh up interventions on issues from malnutrition to maternal mortality, and consider how ethical, evidence-based recommendations can advance health equity, drawing on statistics and on-the-ground experiences.
You'll get an overview of the power politics in the region, including China's resurgence, Japan's constraints and the United States' rebalancing.
You'll examine both traditional and non-traditional security issues across the region, from tension on the Korean peninsula, to the human costs of illiberal politics in Southeast Asia.
Want to know more about what you'll study on this course?
Over on our blog, senior lecturer Aishling McMorrow explores what an international relations degree involves.
I enjoyed being able to explore different aspects of international relations, especially topics such as ethnic conflict and strategic studies.
By taking different units I was able to find a rich area of research in conflict and strategic studies, which I hope to pursue for years to come.
Jemma Humphries, BA Hons International Relations student
As part of this course, you'll have the chance to take part in our Academic Enrichment Programme (AEP) - an interactive set of workshops, seminars, employability events and other activities, including our Model United Nations.
Here's what the AEP is all about.
Melita Lazell: The Academic Enrichment Programme is a programme of events that sits alongside the students' normal academic classes, including the model 'United Nations', an annual student conference, alumni coming in and telling students about their experience in the workplace.
Quite often these seminars and also the events are run by the students themselves.
Alex: The events of what's happening in the future career and they will definitely give me that positive boost that I will be looking for and the different skills that they're able to bring and offer me.
Melita Lazell: The Academic Enrichment Programme events are really connected to the degree courses that the students are doing.
Aleksandia: I think that this is a brilliant opportunity to test yourself in discussion, arguments and the statements you're making and to critical thinking.
Simao: Today, I attended the jobs in the EU after Brexit and I found it really interesting.
Alex: I learnt what sort of links I could use and what sorts of contacts I could go to in order to find those particular jobs and places and what skills are employers looking for generally on a day to day basis, so I'm really happy with the experience that I've had so far.
Aleksandia: The University is all about planning.
If you've got the schedule and if you give yourself some time for your activities that's going to enrich you beyond the University, beyond the assessments you're doing, beyond the lectures you're going to and seminars you're attending, this is what helps you to develop yourself, your professional skills and knowledge as well.
Husnain: Many students should definitely consider the Academic Enrichment Programme because not only is it a huge investment in their potential career and their time, but it's a brilliant way for them to really consolidate their learning in a way where they're leading the investigation.
Melita Lazell: They can actually be involved in organising the events in inviting speakers, they could sit on a panel themselves to debate a particular topic, and we get really great feedback from students about the Academic Enrichment Programme.
Wolfram's main research interests are in contemporary European history and politics, especially European integration and the European Union, and Europe's international relations past and present.
He has authored and edited many books and articles for journals including Comparativ , Contemporary British History , Contemporary European History , Geschichte in Wissenschaft und Unterricht , Historical Journal , Journal of Common Market Studies , Journal of Contemporary European Studies , Journal of Contemporary History , Journal of European Integration History , Journal of European Public Policy , Journal of Modern History , National Identities , and Revue d'histoire diplomatique .
Melita's research interests include the securitisation of development aid and its impact on recipients.
She has published in various academic journals on this subject and is currently engaged in 2 major research projects.
She teaches principally on the themes of Political Economy, Security and International Development, and coordinates Global Development (level 4) and Global Capitalism: Past, Present and Future (level 6).
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons International Relations degree.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations-and-languages:
Study a foreign language and learn about the countries and cultures where it's spoken on this degree course.
You'll also examine issues such as global migration, terrorism, climate change, the rise and fall of major powers, state collapse, global development and the factors that trigger global protest movements.
LR29,                      LR30
Immerse yourself in global history, politics, language and culture.
Understand the forces shaping how nations interact.
Discover the role international relations plays in tackling the big issues facing society and the planet.
On this BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages degree, you’ll explore topics such as global migration, terrorism, climate change, the rise and fall of major powers, and global protest movements – and learn the skills needed to help enact change, shape opinions, and tackle inequality.
You’ll study a foreign language and spend a year abroad in a country and culture where your chosen language is spoken – and set yourself up for careers in international diplomacy, business, journalism, research and translation.
of students said they felt free to express their ideas, opinions and beliefs
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages.
You’ll:
So there you can find, "okay, this is what I stand for." Dr Aishling Mc Morrow: There are a lot of career opportunities.
The British Council has stated that "an understanding of other cultures and languages will continue to be important for successful international relationships at all levels" (Languages for the Future, 2017).
The language skills you’ll gain can open up a world of opportunities: they’ll help you to work globally, and open up job opportunities across borders and cultures.
With technology continuing to develop at a frantic pace, there’s also an ever-increasing demand for graduates with the knowledge required to ensure new developments are ethical.
The analytical skills you’ll develop are in demand, too – your ability to understand complex issues and find solutions to them means that roles across government agencies, NGOs, charities, think tanks and international organisations are all within your reach.
I had the best time of my life here in Portsmouth and I am off to be an English teaching assistant in Taiwan.
Maya Amartalal, BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages
We have links with universities and employers in countries and regions including:
We also have partnerships with the British Senegalese Institute and development organisations in Dakar, which provides opportunities for work placements in Senegal on your year abroad.
We’ll help you secure a study or work placement that fits your aspirations, and you’ll get mentoring and support throughout the year.
Through seminars on authentic texts, you'll develop skills for comprehending written and spoken German on diverse topics.
Building grammar, vocabulary, and fluency, you'll discuss current events, share opinions, and present ideas - all in German.
Engaging with specialist academic texts boosts your academic literacy, and by reading complex materials, writing accurately, and expressing yourself orally with nuance, you'll gain practical German abilities.
Supported by independent study and a series of language seminars, you'll develop a journalist article in German.
You’ll use diverse German source material for your project, from written to audio-visual, and take part in individual and group presentations on German cultural, social or current affairs.
You will mainly focus on grammar activities, writing, reading and listening comprehension.
You’ll focus on grammar, writing, reading and listening.
Through listening, you'll obtain information on familiar and unfamiliar topics from audio sources.
You'll learn to use formal and informal Mandarin with accuracy and cultural competence in conversations.
You’ll also produce writing that describes and comments upon present, past and future events.
By learning to write confidently in formal and informal styles, you'll build your understanding of complex German across diverse contexts and sharpen your ability to express yourself confidently.
Seminars on grammar, reading, writing, listening and speaking provide a toolkit to thrive in German-speaking communities.
Through films, news reports and texts from across the German-speaking world, discuss engaging topics from travel adventures to current affairs.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of diverse German-speaking societies through lively classes and seminars.
You’ll hone your German speaking through debates, presentations and interviews, and refine your formal and informal writing across diverse genres.
You’ll also deepen your cultural understanding through exposure to sociolinguistic nuances and conventions, ready to communicate effectively in German-speaking communities worldwide.
Through dynamic discussions and academic presentations in advanced German, you'll build your verbal fluency on current issues and hone your writing skills across formal and informal styles, as your express nuanced ideas with accuracy.
Graduate with the advanced German proficiency, analytical abilities, and cross-cultural competence to communicate effectively across your degree and career.
The Academic Enrichment Programme (AEP) is run by the School of Area Studies, History, Politics & Literature at the University of Portsmouth.
We offer an interactive set of workshops, seminars, employability events and other activities, including our Model United Nations.
0:02
The Academic Enrichment programme
0:05
is a programme of events, that sits
0:07
alongside the student's normal academic
0:08
classes, including the Model United
0:11
Nations, an annual student conference,
0:13
alumni coming
0:15
in and telling students about their
0:17
experience in the workplace
0:20
and quite often these seminars and also the
0:22
events are run by the students
0:24
themselves.
0:26
The events of what's happening in the
0:27
future career and they
0:29
will definitely give me that positive
0:31
boost that I will be looking for and the
0:33
different skills that they're able to
0:34
bring and offer me.
0:35
The Academic Enrichment programme events
0:38
are really connected
0:40
to the degree courses that the students
0:42
are doing.
0:43
I think that this is a brilliant
0:45
opportunity to test yourself
0:47
in discussion, arguments
0:49
and the statements you're making
0:51
and to critical thinking.
0:54
Today, I attended the jobs in
0:56
the EU after Brexit and I found
0:58
it really interesting.
1:00
I learnt what sort of links
1:02
I could use and what sorts of contacts I
1:04
could go to in order to find those
1:06
particular jobs and places and what
1:08
skills are employers looking for
1:09
generally on a day to day basis, so
1:11
I'm really happy with the
1:13
experience that I've had so far.
1:15
The university is all about planning.
1:17
If you've got the schedule and if you
1:19
give yourself some time for your
1:21
activities that's going to enrich you
1:23
beyond the university, beyond the
1:25
assessments you're doing, beyond the
1:26
lectures you're going to and seminars
1:28
you're attending, this is what helps
1:30
you to develop yourself, your
1:31
professional skills and knowledge
1:33
as well.
1:35
Many students should definitely consider
1:37
the Academic Enrichment programme
1:39
because not only is it a huge investment
1:41
in their potential career and their
1:43
time, but it's a brilliant way for them
1:45
to really consolidate their learning in
1:47
a way where they're leading the
1:49
investigation.
1:50
They can actually be involved in
1:51
organising the events in inviting
1:54
speakers, they could sit on a panel
1:55
themselves to debate a particular topic,
1:58
and we get really great feedback from
2:00
students about the Academic Enrichment
2:02
programme.
Janet.Bryant@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons International Relations and Languages degree.
You'll need to pay full costs towards the optional study trip.
This will cost around £250–£600.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations and Languages in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations-and-politics:
Study this International Relations and Politics degree course for a balance between the analysis of global trends and the investigation of issues closer to home.
L250,                      L251
Make sense of the world and the forces shaping nations.
Understand the factors behind war, conflict and collaboration between states.
Explore what democracy, freedom and equality mean to people at home and abroad.
On this BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics degree, you’ll analyse the global and local issues influencing society, from global migration to the rise of populist politics – and learn the skills needed to help enact change, shape opinions, and tackle inequality.
You’ll explore politics theory in action through the latest developments in British and international politics.
You’ll also consider what you can do with a politics degree, setting yourself up for careers in local and national government, international diplomacy, security, lobbying, academic research, the charity sector and the media.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time studying International Relations and Politics.
I found the course material engaging, highly relevant and useful to understand a range of concepts and subjects.
The faculty staff are always there for you if you need support and guidance and are the first to celebrate successes, small or large, alongside you.
Charley Lock, BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
The analytical skills you’ll develop as you study with us are in demand - you can access a range of jobs with a politics and international relations degree, with a demonstrable ability to understand complex issues and find solutions to them.
This puts roles across government agencies, NGOs, charities, think tanks and international organisations within your reach.
After the second or third year of your international relations and politics degree, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
I've worked for the Shadow Secretary of State for Transport, the United Nations, before ending up leading a new team at Uber – and I’ve found the skills I developed on this degree have been highly adaptable, and helped me change direction when I’ve needed to.
Alex Thompson-Armstrong, BA Hons International Relations and Politics student
You'll look at diverse political figures as case studies, exploring their approaches to power, policy, communication, and political popularity.
By delving into leadership theory and interpreting political sources insightfully, you'll learn how to ask thoughtful questions about British politics and meaningfully interpret British political history.
I have certainly chosen the right course - I find it interesting and exciting, with a good balance between politics and IR studies.
Julija Oleinika, BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics student
(Figures are rounded to nearest 5%)
David.Norman@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your International Relations and Politics degree.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations-with-history:
Examine international issues such as the causes of conflicts, the challenges of managing migration and the global response to climate change on this degree course.
Explore problems and past responses, government and global policies, and study British and global history.
If you're interested in the issues facing the global community and fascinated by history, this BA (Hons) International Relations with History degree course is for you.
You'll examine international issues such as the causes of conflicts, the challenges of managing migration and the global response to climate change.
You'll look at current problems, past responses and government and global policies.
You'll also study British and global history and develop your skills in research and analysis.
This course will set you up for a career or postgraduate study in areas such as government, the international charity sector, international organisations (such as the UN), culture and heritage, museums and international business.
You'll have sought-after qualities you can transfer easily to the workplace in roles that involve analysis, research, communication and teamwork.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) International Relations or the BA International Relations with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study International Relations in depth and add History as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) International Relations with History degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BA (Hons) International Relations and BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Relations with History with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Relations with History.
When you finish the course, our Careers and Employability service can help you find a job that puts your skills to work and support you in identifying postgraduate study opportunities.
Graduates from this degree have gone on to careers in areas such as:
Job roles former students have gone on to include:
You could also continue your studies at Master's or PhD level.
We can help you identify placements, internships and voluntary roles that will complement your studies.
After your second year, you can do an optional work placement year to get valuable longer-term work experience.
On this module, you’ll explore the evolving power of media to represent reality, sway opinion and shape identity from the age of empire through swelling post-war pop culture.
Examining sources like newspapers, propaganda films, early TV and more, you'll investigate questions like: What “truths” did the British public consume during wars and upheavals?
How did entertainment and advertising convey visions of leisure, lifestyle and “the good life”?
And who was included or excluded from depictions of Britishness across eras?
Discover how the media we ingest informs how we envision ourselves, our communities and aspirations - both past and present.
On this module, you’ll explore key areas of the history of slavery in the Atlantic World, and highlight significant themes and debates.
Themes you’ll think about include the intersection of ideas of race, gender, and slavery, the inherent violence of the institutions of slavery, the persistent forms of resistance by the enslaved, and the development of anti-slavery thought and practices, including revolutionary action and mass campaigning.
You’ll often be able to test your skills and knowledge informally before you do assessments that count towards your final mark.
You need to choose BA (Hons) International Relations or BA International Relations with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study International Relations in depth and add History as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) International Relations with History degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study History too.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) International Relations degree when you complete the course.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with History in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with History with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-international-relations-with-international-development:
Examine major global challenges including world poverty on this International Relations with International Development degree course.
Do you want to change the world?
If you want to understand the biggest global challenges, and play your part in solving them, pursue your ambition on this (BA Hons) International Relations with International Development degree course.
You'll study current problems, as well as the responses of governments and global actors.
And you'll explore the role and purpose of international development.
When you graduate, you'll be prepared for a career in sectors such as government, international charities and NGOs, security and intelligence, as well as international institutions such as the UN.
This degree will also prepare you for postgraduate study at Masters or PhD level.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BA (Hons) International Relations or the BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study International Relations in depth and add International Development as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development degree when you finish the course.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development.
When you finish the course, our Careers and Employability service can support you in identifying postgraduate study opportunities or help you find a job that puts your skills to work in the industry.
Students have previously completed work placements at organisations such as:
You need to choose BA (Hons) International Relations or BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study International Relations in depth and add International Development as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development degree when you complete the course.
If you change your mind after you apply, you can choose not to study International Development too.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) International Relations with International Development with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-language-studies:
Learn one or two languages and immerse yourself in intercultural communication and awareness, to prepare for a career working in the international community.
R905,                      R906
96-104 UCAS points to include a minimum of 2 A levels, or equivalent
On this BA (Hons) Language Studies degree course, you'll develop the skills to communicate professionally in one or two languages.
Immerse yourself in intercultural communication and awareness, and graduate with the confidence to pursue a career in the international community.
Begin your studies as a complete novice, or with some knowledge of the language, and successfully complete your studies to a professional level – C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) – without being required to spend a whole year abroad.
You'll have the choice to study either:
When you complete this course, you'll be well prepared to begin work that showcases your intercultural awareness and language skills – such as an international English language teacher, a translator for a multinational corporation in any sector, a tour guide for an international travel agent, or a bilingual language editor or publisher.
Studying languages at university can open up the world to you, but how do you decide which course is best for you?
Meet some of our students and academics, and learn more about our three undergraduate language degrees.
Illijana: Languages, I believe are an essential skill in today's world.
We live in an increasingly globalised society, and the more you travel, the more you realise that just one language isn't enough.
Maxine: The three different language courses at the University of Portsmouth are Modern Languages, Applied Languages and Language Studies.
For modern languages, if I was doing Spain, I could learn about South American countries and Franco's dictatorship, so I got a lot more background knowledge.
Illijana: It introduces you to all the skills that are involved with languages such as translation, interpreting, teaching and general cultural knowledge.
DeAvyon: It's called Applied Languages, everything that languages would be applied to, you learn how to function in that world.
We get to learn how we would apply in the workplace, how to function as a foreigner in another country, as well as focusing on the languages and the cultures themselves.
Jack: The course that I'm studying is Language Studies, and in that I'm looking at multiple different modules, looking at written discourse, spoken discourse, different types of English and different aspects of language.
Marjorie Huet-Martin: Students on the course can choose to specialise in different areas.
They can choose to specialise in teaching and education, in translation and interpreting, linguistics and culture, but also in business and industry.
DeAvyon: The thing I love most would most likely be the lecturers themselves.
They're so accommodating and so welcoming.
They provide so much extra information that you wouldn't think that you would need until you hear it.
Sasha Barron:
We're not only teaching students from the book, but we're also immersed in culture, history, business, social affairs, and also music.
Jack: We have things such as the language café.
There's language exchanges within the uni, but also, I think the plethora of literature that the university has available to you to learn about these subjects.
Illijana: As a mature student, I was initially worried about my experience, but it was really inclusive and a friendly environment.
Everyone is definitely very welcoming.
Marjorie: Students on the course have the opportunity to spend a period of time abroad.
DeAvyon: Going on a year abroad is so important.
You get to be fully immersed in the culture and the chance to be able to do that as part of my degree is just amazing.
If you put on your CV that you've studied or worked abroad, it just boosts you up above everybody else in the country so much.
If anyone gets the opportunity, you have to take it.
Jack: There are so many career options that have become available to me through doing a language degree.
Marjorie: We have students who have gone into obviously the teaching and the translation and interpreting, but we also have students who go into banking, into fraud investigation.
Some of them become recruitment consultants, education consultants.
They might work in marketing, in digital media, or social media.
Jack: The melting pot that is this degree in terms of module choice really does help you with those careers.
DeAvyon: One of the biggest reasons to come and study at Portsmouth is the amount of socialisation.
I've not really ever felt alone in Portsmouth, which is really nice.
Just as a uni as well, they offer so much to do and so many opportunities as well, which I really love.
Portsmouth really gets you involved.
If you're interested in a career in teaching, you can choose to enhance your degree with additional, widely recognised qualifications.
Take steps to become a teacher while developing your passion for languages.
You can combine your language studies with teacher training and school teaching placements by taking the Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) pathway.
If successful, you'll save an extra year of study, get a £9,000 bursary in your final year of study and gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which will enable you to teach languages in secondary schools in England and Wales after you graduate.
You’ll need to pass an additional entry test and interview to add the Trinity Certificate to your studies.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Language Studies with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Language Studies.
As well as meeting the entry requirements, you'll need an interest in language learning and a desire to learn about other languages and cultures.
Explore all our language undergraduate courses, so you can compare your options and apply for the best course for you.
Perfect your listening and comprehension skills in a rich, multi-media language learning environment.
Find out how to integrate and manipulate video, sound, text and internet sources in different languages.
Develop the skills needed as an interpreter or translator in our Conference Interpreter Suite.
Get experience of diverse simulated environments – from meetings and conferences to courtrooms.
Marjorie Huet-Martin, Course Leader - BA (Hons) Language Studies
Having the ability to communicate effectively with people from different cultures in different contexts can lead to a rewarding career in areas such as tourism, teaching, journalism and marketing, in the UK and internationally.
The additional skills that knowing a language brings can also make you more employable in an increasingly global workforce.
The growing use of tools such as video conferencing means you're more likely to work with colleagues in other countries, regardless of whether your own role is mobile or not.
In fact, 16% of companies worldwide are completely remote, and 85% of managers believe their future teams will include remote workers ( Findstack ).
The language skills, intercultural awareness and proficiency in communication you gain from studying this course are especially sought after by businesses and organisations that operate across national borders and cultures.
You'll graduate with the skills and understanding to take up roles in many fields including:
This degree broadens your options so you can pursue almost any career.
Learning a second language is useful in all sectors, including:
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level with a Master's in a subject such as Translation Studies or Applied Linguistics and TESOL .
You could also choose to set up your own business , or take a voluntary placement .
You can successfully complete this degree course without studying abroad.
If you do choose to take a short-term study abroad experience , you'll build on your language skills in a country where your chosen language(s) is spoken.
You can take advantage of our links with universities and employers worldwide, including Germany, Spain, China, Taiwan, Latin America and Senegal.
In terms of spoken communication, you’ll be introduced to the sounds of the Standard Southern British (SSB) accent and develop a repertoire of suitable language for taking part in discussions with students and staff in seminars.
When it comes to written communication, you’ll not only further develop your knowledge of vocabulary and sentence structure, but also learn how to integrate academic sources into your own writing effectively, appropriately, and responsibly.
Via engaging lectures, seminars and workshops, you'll explore key HRM concepts from recruitment and selection, to performance management and employment equality.
You'll also examine real-world case studies to reveal the importance of linking HR activities to a business's organisational outcomes.
Through group presentations and peer teaching with your fellow students, you'll build confidence using HRM terminology in order to communicate effectively as a HR professional or with others in this role.
Apply cultural theories in real business scenarios through group projects and develop your communication skills with a global mindset via vibrant discussions.
This module will equip you with cultural awareness, analytical abilities and presentation skills to thrive.
Supported by independent study and a series of language seminars, you'll develop a journalist article in Mandarin.
You’ll use diverse Mandarin source material for your project, from written to audio-visual, and take part in individual and group presentations on Mandarin cultural, social or current affairs.
Supported by independent study and a series of language seminars, you'll develop a journalist article in Spanish.
You’ll use diverse Spanish source material for your project, from written to audio-visual, and take part in individual and group presentations on Spanish cultural, social or current affairs.
You’ll bring together new and existing knowledge in business and marketing to generate potential business ideas.
You’ll locate, access and critically engage with market information using digital technologies to collect data for research, demonstrate your understanding of business ethics and sustainability in various cultural contexts, and communicate clearly and effectively to a wide audience, such as banks and potential investors.
You’ll take part in presentations, language lab seminars, role-plays and groupwork, drawing on information, ideas and opinions from complex written media and specialist texts with regional variations.
You'll also discuss and professionally present specialised topics, and express yourself accurately through varied formal and informal text types and vocabulary.
From theories and models to business cultures and current affairs, you'll analyse international trade trends, regulatory institutions, and the forces shaping competitive business environments.
Examining strategic responses to globalization, you'll develop critical perspectives on corporate responsibility and assess market dynamics across different regions, while crafting insightful solutions that benefits society and the economy.
When you graduate, you'll have the essential knowledge, analytical skills, and global mindset to succeed as a future business leader.
You'll also have skill development sessions and workshops with learning development tutors.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Language Studies degree.
During your placement or study abroad semester, you’ll be eligible for a discounted rate on your tuition fees.
Tuition fees for that year are:
If you opt-out of the QTS pathway, you'll need to carry out a summer school placement in June–July, in both the second and final years of your degree.
You'll need to budget for accommodation, travel and subsistence during this period.
To start BA (Hons) Language Studies in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Language Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-marketing:
Learn about all the tools of marketing, from advertising, to branding, to product development, whilst also understanding how marketing interacts with all the other parts of a business.
You’ll have the chance to work with real clients and take a paid placement year.
N500,                      N505
Marketing is about so much more than advertising.
This BA (Hons) Marketing degree explores the wider role that marketing plays in business and how it can shape the behaviours of consumers and society.
On this CIM accredited course you’ll discover what makes a brand, how to develop new product concepts, and why understanding consumers is so important.
You’ll specialise in topics that interest you by choosing optional modules after your first year, with the chance to study topics such as project management or B2B marketing.
You’ll finish your degree with an in-depth understanding of how marketing can grow an organisation, and with experience working on a range of practical projects to boost your marketing portfolio.
You’ll learn to create effective communications, apply your skills and knowledge to real-life scenarios, and work with live clients throughout your studies.
When you graduate you’ll already have experience of industry standard software such as Hubspot and Excel, with opportunities to earn certifications in these softwares as you study.
If you choose to complete an industrial placement year after your second or third year, you’ll have a year of industry experience too.
You’ll enter the job market ready to apply your marketing skills in any sector that interests you — whether you want to work in a specific area of business, for a marketing agency, or as a freelancer.
I chose my course because of the variety of options, a great reputation and a stellar support system.
Joseph Economos, BA (Hons) Marketing
Explore the key foundations of marketing, such as consumer behaviour and brands, and focus on the areas that really interest you in your second and third years
Work on live briefs with real clients as part of your assessments
Use the same software used in industry
Earn additional certifications in areas such as SEO and Google Analytics as part of your degree
Network with industry speakers and explore how marketing is used across different sectors
Learn from teaching staff who have worked in industry and are actively researching the rapidly changing world of marketing
Secure a paid placement year with the support of our dedicated Placement Team
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
University of Portsmouth has joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM Accredited Degree partnership.
CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Marketing with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Marketing.
Students who do well on this course are those who really want to know what it means to 'understand the customer', and who have a curiosity around what makes certain brands so successful.
Experience with creative tools or software is useful but not essential as you'll get all the support you need to develop your skills on the course.
You'll graduate from this course with projects and certificates to demonstrate your competence with tools and you'll have real-world experience to talk about in interviews.
That experience might be through a work placement, or through our marketing consultancy project module.
You'll also have an understanding of business and how the marketing function fits into business, which is a skill you'll be able to apply to any sector that interests you.
You could also choose to continue your studies at postgraduate level , or set up your own business with help and support from the University .
I learned how to think deeply and critically, which is essential for my job which involves understanding human behaviour and culture and making strategic decisions for brands.
It enabled me to build connections in the creative/marketing industry that have led me to where I am today.
Rachel Holden, BA (Hons) Marketing 2017 graduate, and Senior Strategist - Nike at Wieden + Kennedy
You can boost your employability by taking an optional paid placement after the second or third year of your degree.
Katarzyna's placement led onto a job she loves:
"My role has included organising the project's data, creating the newsletter, updating the website and posting on social media, as well as organising online events.
Recently I supervised the filming of a short, promotional video."
Katarzyna Stachurska graduate from BA Marketing in 2021
Read about Katarzyna's journey from placement to job
You could also set up your own business during your placement year with support from us.
We have more than 20 experienced business entrepreneurs on our free EiR programme who can help you develop your business idea.
Between your second and third year you can choose to study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, Asia, Australia or North America.
You'll be introduced to branding models and shown how brands can be responsibly and actively managed to build brand equity.
You'll be introduced to the characteristics of services and how the extended marketing mix and technology can help to mitigate against these.
Seminars provide the opportunity for discussion and practical application of theories learned.
Your knowledge will be assessed through a series of online tests and your understanding and application of theory assessed through a report reflecting on industry practice.
You'll discuss the different objectives of advertising campaigns and the different media and creative approaches that can be used in achieving this.
By the end of the module, you'll have developed a comprehensive skill set in designing and executing effective, targeted advertising campaigns, preparing you for careers in marketing, digital marketing or in media planning and creative direction.
Take a look at our other marketing courses to compare your options.
If you know you want to focus on the digital aspects of marketing and get very hands-on with creating content take a look at our BA (Hons) Digital Marketing degree.
The lecturers are all very friendly and open.
They make it so much easier to communicate with and make the course more enjoyable.
Mary Ratcliffe, BA Marketing
Programme Lead (Marketing)
Georgiana.Busoi@port.ac.uk
Marketing
Professor of Marketing
Associate Head (Research and Innovation)
Sarah.Turnbull@port.ac.uk
To start BA (Hons) Marketing in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Marketing with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-media-studies:
This degree course gives you the knowledge and skills to expertly dissect the media and put what you learn into creative or critical practice.
P300,                      P303
Are you curious about how the media influences the world we live in?
Our BA (Hons) Media Studies course is distinguished by its innovative mix of options and will give you a fascinating way to gain a deeper academic understanding of this prime form of communication.
You'll learn how global media reflects, shapes and affects societies and cultures, from television to cinema and social networks.
You’ll engage with questions of media ownership and the development of media institutions from the BBC to Facebook.
You will also consider how identity is formed through the media, and its representations in contemporary formats and genres, such as social media, news reporting, documentary, the comic book industries, and science programming.
As you progress in your degree, you can create your own learning plan by choosing optional modules, including film production.
You’ll graduate ready to begin your media career in many communicational fields, but you’ll also have creative and transferable skills you can use in any sector.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Media Studies with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Media Studies.
Watch cinema from across the globe in our 80-seat lecture theatre, fitted with high-specification audio-visual technology, rich sound systems, and acoustic panelling.
Explore room
Award-winning kit for future award-winning filmmakers.
The communication, research, writing and critical thinking skills you learn on this media studies degree will be essential for employers within and outside the media industry.
Many of our graduates pursue Master's and Doctorates, with a number of them taking further teacher training to work in education.
Previous media studies graduates have gone on to work in areas such as:
Job roles our graduates have taken on include:
Some of our alumni have gone on to work for big names such as:
Gemma – Vivid Housing
Gemma – interning as a Communications Coordinator – discusses her role, how she adjusted to the pandemic, and the highlights of her placement experience.
Read Gemma's story
Previous students have done placement in areas such as:
Previous students have interned at big companies, including:
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Media Studies
You’ll become skilled in finding information, writing academically, referencing, and presenting, all focused on the movie industry.
Through group work and real-life examples, you'll use advanced research methods to analyse film production, filmmakers, studios, audiences, and historical influences.
This module will upskill you in finding, understanding, and sharing ideas from different sources.
This experience lays a solid groundwork in research techniques and gives you skills you can use in any study related to film and TV.
You will learn the fundamental concepts and skills required for using a camera, editing, sound, and storytelling.
Collaborating with others on creative projects will help you develop teamwork skills.
You will learn to create compelling scenes and stories while considering how to put them together.
Throughout the course, you will be encouraged to reflect on what you have learned and how it can be applied to your future work.
Additionally, you will learn how to work safely and effectively on a film set.
By the end of the module, you will have gained valuable knowledge about the filmmaking process and acquired skills that can be useful for future studies or a career in the industry.
You'll grasp the history of broadcasting and the current institutional landscape in the UK and globally.
Analysing pressing issues for production, you'll develop your critical thinking.
And understanding the legal, ethical and regulatory environment shaping production and broadcasting will inform your own practice.
Using a rich skillset, you'll produce an actual radio or podcast project.
All modules in the year are optional.
With guidance from specialists, you’ll deeply explore your chosen topic.
You’ll show how carefully and ethically you can analyse information, using your sources to come up with fresh insights.
This module lets you really get into a topic you love, honing your abilities to manage research, write academically, and learn on your own.
Above all, it gives you the chance to create a significant piece of work that showcases your commitment and talent.
Work in groups to plan and use resources well while refining your technical skills.
You’ll take on specific roles, such as directing, cinematography, or editing.
Use your production knowledge to operate equipment safely to industry standards.
The project you finish will show how well you can apply theory to practice.
This real-world experience will be a standout addition to your portfolio and prepare you for a successful career in film and media.
You’ll be better prepared for jobs in commercial production.
Teaching activities on this course include:
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your media studies degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as workshops, lectures and seminars for about 15 hours a week.
You'll probably do more independent study and have less scheduled teaching in years 2 and 3, but this depends on which options you choose.
To start BA (Hons) Media Studies in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Media Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
the UCAS course code – P303

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-modern-languages:
Study one language, immersing yourself in the culture, history and identity of the communities that speak it, in practical classes and on a year abroad.
R902,                      R900
On this BA (Hons) Modern Languages degree course, you'll study one language in-depth, immersing yourself in the culture, history and identity of the communities that speak it.
In an increasingly global world, equip yourself with the ability to connect with millions of people in their native language.
You'll have the choice to work towards fluency in one of the following languages:
Boost your language and cultural studies with a year abroad on a study or work placement, in a country or region that speaks your chosen language.
Previous students have experienced life in Germany, Spain, China, Taiwan, Latin America and Senegal.
Wherever you choose to go, this course and the year abroad will transform your passion for language into practical multilingual skills you can use to build your career in any field – from teaching to international management and finance, or media and marketing.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Modern Languages with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Modern Languages.
Discover the interpreting suite at the University of Portsmouth.
Introduction
[Music]
interpreting is a module that we offer
0:09
in all of our
courses at the university of portsmouth
as part of this module students get to
take their language skills
up to the next level the interpreting
suite actually offers an outstanding
0:19
opportunity for our students to actually
0:21
put their interpreting skills into
0:23
practice in a very real context
What is interpreting
0:32
the qualities the student will need to
succeed in this topic perseverance
communication preparation teamwork and
0:39
passion about
interpreting interpretation world what i
0:41
love about interpreting is how much it's
challenging my language skills
0:44
i want to be able to facilitate people
0:46
to integrate into a culture to make
0:48
friends
to be able to work to be able to
0:50
socialize it's a really safe
0:52
introduction to interpreting
What do you think
this module really pushes me to actually
use my spanish
0:57
very spontaneously it encourages the
learning of new vocabulary
1:01
and just to think a little bit outside
1:03
you have to think on your feet it forces
you to
1:05
become good it keeps you on top you know
1:07
the interpreting module was one of the
main reasons why i
1:10
came to portsmouth i think it really
1:12
defines well
the concept of communication
you'll be pushed so much you'll learn so
much and at the end of the day you'll
have fun
just trust your command of the language
and roll with it
As early as 2014, UK Trade and Investment reported that the UK's lack of language skills was leading to a 3.5% loss in national income through trade.
This highlights the need UK companies have for bilingual and multilingual employees.
Fast forward to a post-pandemic 2021, the opportunity to work remotely from anywhere in the world has dramatically increased and globalization of trade continues to grow (according to the DHL Global Connectedness Index).
The professional language skills you develop on this course could set you apart in a global job market, whether you plan to work in the UK after graduation or pursue a career abroad.
Both within and beyond Europe, we will need to reach out beyond English, not only to maintain and improve our economic position but to build trust, deepen international influence and cultural relationships, and to keep our country safe.
British Council, Languages for the Future (2017)
Roles you could go onto include:
My degree has given me the confidence to travel and work abroad.
I am now in Beijing to complete a MA in European and Asian Affairs.
Jan Chodorowski, BA (Hons) Modern Languages student
After your second year, you'll do a work or study abroad placement based in one or more countries where your chosen language is spoken.
The experience abroad will help you build linguistic and cultural fluency that will help you stand out to employers when you graduate.
We'll give you all the support you need before your year abroad to find a work or study abroad placement fits your aspirations.
You'll continue to get mentoring and support from us throughout your year abroad, to help you get the most out of your experience.
I went to study abroad...
which completed my course perfectly and initiated the path into my career.
It was the most perfect opportunity.
Lauren Cooper , BA (Hons) Combined Modern Languages student
Develop a network of international contacts.
There are so many reasons to study abroad as part of your degree.
Meet students from our Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, who have studied abroad in countries such as France, Japan and Senegal.
Zianne: There ’ s so many good things about studying abroad.
Tamarra: It's really hard to list all the skills and all the value that it brings because really it makes you such a well-rounded individual.
Sorina Toltica: All humanities and social sciences courses have got the option to study abroad.
This includes the United States of America, France, Spain, Japan, Australia, and we are also developing some partnerships within the African continent.
Zianne: Through my year abroad, I was able to develop a lot of resilience and being able to adapt because when you're not speaking your own language, you kind of have to adapt every single day and you can't just give up.
You just have to keep going.
Tamarra: There is a little bit of pressure, obviously, since we're in a new environment.
I remember getting off the airplane and seeing the Czech language and I just thought to myself, How am I going to get through this?
But in the university and here they offer Czech language courses for beginners.
You meet other international students who are on the same boat as you.
You guys can just come together and explore it yourself.
Zianne: I met loads of people from around Europe who are also on Erasmus, so now I have friends from Norway, Germany and Croatia that I probably would have never met if I wasn't in Salamanca at that particular time.
Tamarra: My flatmates are from France, Norway, from Belgium, Hungary.
We've always had these monthly dinners together where we try out each country's cuisine and traditional foods.
Charlie: It's helped me to understand people better, it’s helped grow my confidence, helped grow my independence.
Bethan: The most valuable thing that it ’ s brought me has been an appreciation of a completely different way of thinking.
You learn to appreciate that there is value and beauty in different ways of thinking, even if you don't agree with it.
Tamarra: You really have to immerse yourself into that country to get the full experience.
Bethan: I have always felt supported by the university.
When I was abroad, I knew that I could contact my personal tutor.
There are so many services there and I knew they ’ re always available.
Charlie: They helped me with the application.
They helped me find the opportunities in the country that I wanted to study in.
Zianne: I also benefited from speaking to the wellbeing team whilst I was out there because that is still on offer to you, which I really appreciated.
Tamarra: All the students should study abroad because not only is it good for friendships and for memories, but in terms of the future in your careers, you can also get a lot more confidence.
Charlie: Coming out here you really realise how big the world is, how many people there are, how many different stories people have.
I think it really just opens your eyes to the possibilities that you have available to you.
Sorina Toltica: One of the biggest differences in my students before and after they come from study abroad.
It's their adaptability and resilience and knowledge of the world and their excitement about possibly going back.
Bethan: If I was to give some advice to someone considering going to study abroad, I would just say do it.
Doing the year abroad with the University of Portsmouth has opened up so many career opportunities for me, and I wouldn't be where I am today without them.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Modern Languages
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Modern Languages degree.
In your third year for your placement abroad, you’ll need to fund the costs of travel, transport and accommodation.
If you're studying at one of our partner universities, you won't need to pay fees at your host institution, but there may be other costs such as visa, insurance or extra tuition.
If you choose to work abroad, can help you find an internship, which may be paid or unpaid.
During your placement year, you’ll be eligible for a discounted rate on your tuition fees.
Currently, this discount amounts to 90% of the year’s fees.
Placement year tuition fees are as follows:
To start BA (Hons) Modern Languages in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Modern Languages with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
You'll need
the UCAS course code – R900

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-politics:
On this Politics degree, you'll study challenges that politicians and the public face, and the historic flash points that led to our current system of government.
L200,                      L205
Understand the political issues shaping – and dividing – societies around the world, and discover the integral role politics plays in every aspect of people’s lives globally.
On this political studies degree, you’ll tackle the major issues facing people and politicians today, including Brexit, the NHS, and life in a ‘post-truth’ world.
You’ll learn politics theory, how the political world works and look at how our Parliament functions, as well as how the law and our institutions interact.
You’ll study the historic moments that have shaped our democracy – and learn the skills required to play your part in changing minds, shaping policy and fighting inequality.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BA (Hons) Politics with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BA (Hons) Politics.
This course was an enriching, exciting and thought-provoking experience that helped me to nurture my academic abilities as well as provide enormous opportunities for my own personal development.
The staff have been incredibly engaging across my years of study and they are exceptionally thoughtful in the support they provide.
Matthew Smith, BA (Hons) Politics student
The knowledge you gain on this politics degree, coupled with the communication, research, critical thinking and analysis skills you learn, means you'll have lots of career options when you graduate.
Many of our politics graduates go into people-focused roles, or bring their understanding of political theory to roles in research, shaping social policy or bringing about social change.
Areas you could go into include:
After the second or third year of your politics degree, you can do an optional work placement sandwich year, to get valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Previous students have secured placements at:
Previous graduates have gone onto work in jobs such as:
The lecturers were great and made the university experience what it was.
The curriculum was varied and they really knew how to push you to achieve great things.
Antony Innes, BA (Hons) Politics student
You'll take part in discussions with large and small groups, developing your communication skills.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BA Hons Politics degree.
To start BA (Hons) Politics in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BA (Hons) Politics with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-and-supply-chain-management:
Gain global logistics and supply chain skills that keep the world moving in one of the UK’s biggest supply chain hubs with great placement opportunities.
J9N1,                      J9N5
Supply chain management contributes to every aspect of business, not to mention everyday life.
Recent events like Covid and Brexit have shown how important supply chains are.
Ensuring the right products are in the right place at the right time — and at the right cost — is vital to life as we know it.
So is ensuring those supply chains are sustainable safe for the environment.
On this degree you'll investigate risk and strategic management, logistics management, and learn how to procure goods and manage supply lines.
You'll use professional industry software, systems and tools to help you explore the ethics and sustainability of global supply chains.
With a focus on global procurement and the sourcing and purchasing of goods, you’ll graduate with more than just an understanding of logistics and the movement of goods.
You’ll build your specialist knowledge and understanding of business in general so that you graduate with a set of management and specific skills that are in demand in the workplace.
You can boost your employability and apply you degree knowledge with a paid industry placement year before or after your third year.
As Portsmouth is a vital supply chain hub there are great local opportunities to do a placement year with companies like IBM and Boeing, as well as other roles across the UK.
"Demand for supply chain talent is at an all-time high, as more and more companies have recognised how important supply chain management is to their success."
DHL
I first chose BA (Hons) Business and Management, but I really enjoyed the Business Operations module, so I switched to Supply Chain Management from my second year.
The modules are all really fun and interesting and the staff are all great and know their subjects really well.
Georgia Meredrew, BSc (Hons) Business and Supply Chain Management Graduate, Procurement Agent, Boeing
Students on our BSc Business and Supply Chain Management can be awarded a CMI Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership upon successful completion of their degree programme.
Business and management studies at the University of Portsmouth is ranked 2nd of the modern universities by research power
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Business and Supply Chain Management with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Business and Supply Chain Management.
Supply chains are evolving constantly to adapt to business challenges.
Communication and negotiation skills, adaptability, and creativity are becoming increasingly important.
We're looking for enthusiastic people who can demonstrate good communication and presentation skills.
You don't need to be particularly good at maths for this degree, but we are looking for analytical and enquiring minds who enjoy solving problems.
This course is open to both international and UK students.
If you're an international student who doesn't quite meet our entry requirements you can join this degree course in the 2nd year after completing the undergraduate pathway to Business and Management at International College Portsmouth .
Logistics and supply chain management today is emerging as a highly desirable sector for employment providing an exciting high-tech career.
This is due to the deployment of cutting-edge technologies in many of the key areas.
Harald Hamley , Teaching fellow, University of Portsmouth
Supply chain management is needed everywhere and there's a great shortage of supply chain skills in the UK.
You could work in retail, healthcare, manufacturing, shipping and freight, charities or the public sector - the choice is yours.
Pay is good; the average salary for all UK procurement and supply chain professionals is £49,743 ( CIPS Salary Guide 202 2 ) and there are many varied routes for career progression, including working overseas.
Alternatively you could go on to specialist postgraduate study , or set up your own business with the help and support of the University.
"Roles in logistics and supply chain management can provide challenging and satisfying careers which typically combine the responsibility for 'day-to-day' operations with long term projects implementing major business changes."
Prospects October 2021
You can boost your employability by taking an optional paid placement after your second or third year.
You'll gain clarity on your strengths and areas for growth through tutorials, workshops and self-reflection tools.
We'll help you to create a roadmap to refine your employability skills from communication to critical thinking.
You'll evaluate how to apply your evolving capabilities to both degree learning and global workplace contexts, so that you finish this module ready to thrive personally and professionally.
Professor of Operational Research
Banu.Lokman@port.ac.uk
Operations and Systems Management
To start BSc (Hons) Business and Supply Chain Management in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Business and Supply Chain Management with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computer-animation-and-visual-effects:
Get set for a career in areas such as 3D animation, TV and film visual effects, and the computer games industry with this Computer Animation and Visual Effects degree.
II15,                      II16
The UK's animation and visual effects (VFX) industry leads the world in producing blockbuster visuals for entertainment media, reinventing their technical and creative capabilities.
With indie talent also thriving in the South Coast, there’s no better place to start your visual effects career than at Portsmouth.
Our Computer Animation and Visual Effects degree course will help you build skills in key areas such as concept drawing, 3D animation, physics-based simulation, and compositing, with guidance from a team of industry experts from across the entertainment and advertising sectors.
Using our spectacular facilities, software and equipment, you'll enhance your artistic and technical expertise and improve your research skills in the technology you'll work with, which is vital to your development as an all-round artist.
You can also specialise and develop your professional portfolio through placement opportunities, client projects and the modules you’ll choose from second year.
Transform yourself into an exceptional VFX artist, producer, animator, and stagecrafter at Portsmouth – ready to take the creative and communication industries by storm.
This course is professionally accredited by SideFX as a Houdini Certified School.
We also work with visual effects studios, game developers and professional bodies such as TIGA (The Independent Games Association) to make sure the course stays up-to-date with industry trends.
In 2021, the University of Portsmouth was awarded Best Educational Institution at the TIGA Games Industry Awards.
The Houdini Certified School accreditation recognises a course's high calibre of instructor knowledge, exemplary student work, and commitment to connecting students to industry.
In return, students can access promotional and sponsorship opportunities from commercial studios, as well as support from SideFX to enhance their learning and employability, such as webinars, class presentations and portfolio reviews.
See highlights of the best work from our Computer Animation and Visual Effects 2021 graduates.
Video showing highlights of the best work from our Computer Animation and Visual Effects 2021 graduates.
(No dialogue.)
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) direct entry applicants will need a portfolio of work to support their application.
For more information on how to put together a portfolio, read our BSc (Hons) Computer Animation with Visual Effects portfolio guide .
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Computer Animation and Visual Effects with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Computer Animation and Visual Effects.
Our course lets you explore the technical and artistic aspects of computer animation and visual effects, so you can prepare for the diverse work you’ll be creating in a variety of ways.
Here are a few key ones.
Play around with 3D production to familiarise yourself with the interfaces and workflows you'll encounter during the course, since you'll be working with 3D rendering software and equipment a lot.
Free software like Blender will get you started working with 3D.
Being able to observe shape, form and texture is a boost to your creativity.
Drawing abilities are optional but desirable, especially if you want to become an animator.
Take up drawing opportunities, like life drawing, to study the human form and other objects.
Having an eye for composition is also an asset, particularly if you plan to work in film.
You can develop this ability by experimenting with photography, videomaking, or other activities requiring you to set the scene or compose optimal imagery through a lens.
Our VR lab boasts the latest immersive and interactive technologies used by the ever-evolving VR industry.
The computer animation and VFX industry continues to grow as volume demand increases and increasingly complex effects require innovations in technologies and workflows.
The sector’s unique fusion of art (in its traditional and modern forms and techniques) and science (via the advanced hardware and software used) offers fascinating career, research, and education enhancement opportunities for graduates.
London is home to six of the world's largest award-winning visual effects companies, many of whom we have strong industry connections with, and independent effects studios are emerging in the southeast of England.
Our Master's degrees in Creative Technologies and Computer Animation are natural progressions for graduates who wish to research more into the science behind their skills.
Many of our graduates have worked in roles such as:
Many of our graduates have worked at either the University of Portsmouth or multi-award-winning special effects companies behind some of the biggest film and television franchises in the world.
Find out about Emily's life and success after university
Emily Bisset graduated in 2020 with a Computer Animation and Visual Effects degree from the University of Portsmouth.
She's now a Freelance 3D Artist.
Find out what Emily's role entails and how she’s applying the skills she learnt during her time at Portsmouth.
My name is Emily Bissett.
I'm currently freelancing as a 3D artist.
I specialise in materials and textures.
What made the University of Portsmouth stand out to me is that I saw they had their motion capture facilities there, and so I thought that would be a really cool place to go and study Computer Animation and Visual Effects.
It is also by the sea and I enjoyed sailing, and it really helped me get into more sailing at the time when I was at university.
The University of Portsmouth Sailing Club is really, really cool.
I really like the people in there.
The skills I've learnt sailing I still use every day and so things like teamwork and working in small teams when you're yacht sailing or racing and so communication is really key there.
Having that and transferring it into my working life has been really helpful for me.
I had a placement with Gillette after I finished at Portsmouth.
I was really lucky I got to work on some consumer facing projects, as well as internal projects.
To be an intern and to be able to be working on things that the public are going to see, that was a really crazy thing for me to experience.
When I was working at Gillette, I was actually working in the evenings on personal projects as well.
These projects were in a software called Substance Designer, which is owned by Adobe, and it's basically visual scripting in order to make a one by one tile of material.
I obviously always post my work on things like ArtStation and Instagram and LinkedIn and stuff like that, and that got picked up by a company called The Rookies.
I ended up writing an article for that which then got picked up by Substance and so I got to put my article on their magazine.
I could see it on their launch page as well so every time you go and launch the software, you could see it, which was really awesome, and that's actually allowed me to get more contract work in.
If you know you want to do something and you need a degree to do it, definitely go.
Portsmouth has all the facilities and all the kind of societies and stuff in order to do that.
Whatever you decide – or even if you just want some employability advice – our exclusive Creative Careers team can support you every step of the way.
Our in-faculty Creative Careers team has extensive recruitment experience and knows the creative sector well, making it easier for students to find placements within the creative industries.
Learn more about the Creative Careers team
Our previous placement students have worked in a wide range of technical roles, including compositing, rigging, texturing, and modeling.
Many of them have gained their industry experience in our leading facilities at the University, including CCIXR.
Others have completed their placements at a number of renowned companies, including:
Krit Singhania – Procter & Gamble
Krit, working as a Research and Development intern, reveals the highlights of his placement experience – including some of the fascinating programming and VR projects he's working on.
Read about Krit's placement
Completing this module demonstrates a strong understanding and application of essential mathematical skills.
Completing this module will allow you to demonstrate a strong understanding of programming concepts and the ability to apply basic programming knowledge and skills.
Through industry research you’ll analyse technology shifts alongside socio-cultural currents and gain foresight into macro and micro trends.
You’ll have the invaluable opportunity to advance niche technical knowledge and communicate findings with verbal and written skill.
You’ll practice manipulating still and moving images.
During this, you’ll gain crucial technical skills to create realistic shots through hands-on experience.
In the studio setting, you’ll develop your own artistic style, ensuring it meets professional quality standards.
This will prepare you to produce high-quality visual effects.
You'll develop pipelines connecting CGI tools to build responsive, rendered environments.
Through animation and asset creation tailored for real-time engines, you’ll gain indispensable skills for crafting immersive worlds.
Reflecting on your work, you’ll evaluate technical and artistic approaches, learning to fluidly translate between the languages of creativity and computation.
This module provides hands-on experience establishing robust foundations in real-time 3D tools and techniques for a future in interactive media and emerging technologies.
You'll learn core animation concepts like timing and weight to make your animations feel realistic.
We’ll cover the basic principles of animation to breathe life into your characters through movement and emotion.
Get hands-on practice implementing animation skills in software applications.
Master media and file management workflows by coordinating files across multiple programs.
To showcase your new expertise, you’ll create an original animation using the animation principles you’ve learned.
By the end of this module, you’ll have a strong foundation in animation principles and technology skills to bring your creative visions to life.
The module builds the visualisation abilities and technical knowledge you need to communicate visually.
You’ll draw inspiration from the world around you and use computer animation tools to bring your visions to the screen.
You'll sharpen your artistic eye through practical workshops that teach fundamental skills like observational drawing.
Generating original ideas and concepts will spark your creativity.
Acquire basic 3D modelling, texturing, and animation techniques to translate imagination into virtual worlds and by researching and designing an animated narrative, you’ll put new software skills into practice.
The projects you’ll do in this module provide valuable practical experience—from taking the seed of an idea to growing it into a fully realised animated short.
You’ll combine creativity and technique to explore the key VFX skills of a Lighting Technical Director.
Study how to film scenes and train your artistic eye to make realistic CG images.
Improve your technical skills by developing efficient pipelines between applications.
You’ll show your aesthetic style by balancing texturing, shading, lighting, and rendering.
This module helps you to light CGI with imagination and precision, getting you ready for different jobs in the global VFX industry.
You’ll talk about your work using both creative and technical languages.
In the end, you’ll have the experience and confidence to shine with your CGI lighting talents.
You'll discuss research approaches and gain skills to strategise methods for independent study.
You'll formulate plans tailored to your goals, create research proposals and hone your scholarly writing.
Investigating your chosen career path, you'll identify opportunities, appraising your skills and interests.
This experience provides a robust foundation to initiate an impactful creative project aligned with your aspirations
You’ll research, design, and develop a character and environment following an industry-standard brief.
Create model sheets and mood boards to guide your 3D workflow and visualise your concepts as you take your asset from concept to finish.
Finally, you will use professional real-time techniques to create a demo reel that shows your technical excellence.
This module will equip you with practical experience and key skills in creating triple-A game assets, VR/AR content, and other real-time 3D applications.
In this module, you'll generate and evaluate ideas that bring narrative concepts to life.
In the design process, you'll express your vision through composition, observation, and interpretation.
Experiment with software to advance your surfacing, lighting, and rendering techniques, then use your new technical and creative skills to craft an animated short through performance and visual storytelling.
With this module, you can transform a story from page to screen using 3D animation and visualisation abilities.
By the end, you'll have valuable experience in creating captivating characters and animated worlds.
You’ll master digitally sculpting detailed models, observing their form, shape, and structure for animation.
Use industry methods to rig characters that are creatively and technically sound.
Come up with your own solutions that fit creative ideas while keeping in line with the workflow.
By working on your own projects, you’ll use what you’ve learned to make sculpts and rigs for your portfolio.
Understand your work in the broader context of animation as you lay the groundwork for a career in film VFX.
By the end of this module, you’ll have the essential skills to model and rig any kind of character: human, creature, or alien.
Unleash your creativity as you get ready to be part of the new wave of 3D animation artists.
You’ll study examples from animation and visual effects in the industry, giving you the chance to choose techniques that will really connect with your audience.
Working together on this project, you’ll share specialist knowledge with others.
You’ll improve your technical skills and creative abilities.
You’ll find opportunities that match your interests, and look into different areas and specialities.
By learning from professionals, you’ll get how to showcase your talents and past work.
The highlight of this module is that it helps you explain your own style and what you want to achieve.
With the right preparation, you’ll be able to confidently show the value you’ll bring to future employers or clients.
Demonstrating project management and problem-solving skills, through critical analysis and experimentation, you'll produce a body of work that advances knowledge in your discipline.
Communicating scholarly outcomes with impact, you'll demonstrate your knowledge and abilities, drawing together your learning into a compelling self-directed showcase.
This is the culmination of your degree journey - proving your readiness for professional and academic challenges ahead.
Dig into anatomy to rig complex models, meeting animation needs as you master FX techniques like muscles, skin, cloth.
You'll work in teams, collaborating with modelers and animators, and learn to develop custom solutions, scripts and tools to achieve professional effects.
You'll build an impressive portfolio including characters, vehicles, props and more, and use industry terminology to analyse and critique rigs.
When you finish this module you'll have advanced expertise in rigging, FX and technical art sought after in film VFX.
Let your creativity and problem-solving shine through imaginative rigging and simulations.
Learn essential animation skills like rigging, modelling, and lighting through theory and practice.
Use data to understand computer animation's history, current state, and future.
Improve your art skills by studying ideas such as size and method, helping you make better designs for 3D assets.
After finishing this module, you’ll have an impressive showreel that shows off your technical and creative abilities.
As part of your games industry training, you will work on a project that aligns with your career aspirations.
This could involve creating 3D characters and worlds, designing original artwork or animating game levels.
You will have the freedom to unleash your creativity and showcase your skills by incorporating real-world elements into your game designs.
In addition, you will learn to make informed design decisions through independent study and proactive feedback, rather than relying solely on classroom instruction.
By analysing professional works, you will be able to evaluate your own creations and ensure they meet industry standards.
By the end of this module, you will have built a portfolio that demonstrates your readiness to embark on a career in game development, with projects that reflect your ambitions.
You'll prototype concepts while negotiating roles and self-managing workflows.
You'll evaluate and bring ideas to life using professional project management approaches.
This module empowers you to translate concepts into tangible prototypes, and put technical and artistic skills into practice — preparing you for the creative challenges of real-world production.
Collaborating in a group, you'll refine and optimise a real-time interactive experience based on the brief from an external client.
Through analysis and critical reflection, you'll assess the processes undertaken and trade-offs made between project stages.
The module cements both technical and teamwork skills.
You'll gain hands-on practice applying project management methodologies in a professional manner.
Completing this module will provide experience negotiating the realities and demands of commercial production, allowing you to emerge industry-ready.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Computer Animation and Visual Effects degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, practical classes, workshops and supervised studio sessions for about 12 hours a week.
You may need to spend £20 - £75 per annum on drawing and modelling materials, printing, memory sticks or CDs, and DVDs.
(Depending upon option modules selected).
If you take the Student Enterprise Module, you’ll need to pay an additional cost of approximately £20.
You may need to contribute up to £20 towards occasional coach trips.
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Animation and Visual Effects in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Animation and Visual Effects with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computer-games-production:
Become the innovative games producer or project manager of your dreams on our Computer Games Production degree course.
I601,                      I602
Our award-winning Computer Games Production degree course will help you achieve your dream of becoming a computer games producer or project manager.
You’ll also develop the essential business expertise to start your own indie games studio and tackle the challenges that arise – from funding and protecting your innovative ideas, to team and project management, marketing, and leadership.
By working with fellow students from our Computer Games Technology degree course , you’ll gain experience in all areas of game development.
Our course emphasises collaboration and has strong ties with the South Coast games industry, so you'll have many opportunities to work with games companies, culminating in a year-long shippable development project in your final year.
The independent games industry is skyrocketing.
According to Ukie, the trade body for the UK games industry, video games contributed a record £2.91 billion to the UK economy in 2019 and the pandemic has created a huge revenue opportunity.
Now’s the golden time to make your mark.
This course is accredited by TIGA (The Independent Game Developers’ Association) as delivering skills relevant to the games industry.
TIGA accreditation is applicable to courses meeting any of a range of games industry needs, such as programming, art, design and entrepreneurship.
In 2024, several University of Portsmouth graduates won at the TIGA UK Games Education Awards , including  ‘Outstanding TIGA Graduate of the Year: Programmer’.
The University was also rated Gold Tier for social opportunities for gamers by Uswitch broadband experts, who assessed factors including the number of Esports players from National Students Esports (NSE), and followers on Discord and Twitch.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Computer Games Production with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Computer Games Production.
Scan people, objects, or locations with our 144-camera-decked photogrammetry and scanning studio.
The UK games industry has boomed despite the pandemic.
Between 2019 and 2020, its generated revenue increased by 20% to £907 million, accelerating the UK's gross domestic profit to £2.2 billion (£4 million more than the previous year).
In addition, almost 31,000 new jobs related to games studios were created – over 4,000 more than before the pandemic (TIGA, 2020).
Over the next few years, revenue and job opportunities in the UK games industry are expected to rise, so as a graduate, you'll be well-positioned to help further expand this exciting, innovative industry.
Our graduates have worked at some of the biggest names in the games industry, including:
The course helped me get a two-month internship as a Product Manager at a significant mobile games company.
...With only a few weeks left before my graduation, I was able to secure a full-time position as an Associate Product Manager with BossAlien, working on the Star Wars IP.
Luke Fitzgerald, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Enterprise alumnus
You can complete an optional work placement to gain professional experience and enhance your skills.
It also makes a great incentive for employers once you graduate.
Lauren dove into a self-employed placement and set up her own company, Dyak Studios.
Discover her entrepreneurial journey and learn about her highlights, challenges and best practices.
Read about Lauren's placement
You'll need to study modules worth a total of 360 credits.
If you're studying full time, you'll complete modules worth 120 credits each year for 3 years, with an optional placement year.
If you're studying part time, you'll complete modules worth 60 credits each year for 6 years.
You’ll practice various modeling techniques, from box modelling to sculpting.
Master the art of asset creation that meets specific project requirements.
By assessing basic principles and their impact on final results, you’ll develop advanced technical skills.
With your creative thinking and understanding of procedures, you'll excel in 3D roles and unlock new possibilities.
By practising texture and movement rendering techniques using analogue mediums, you’ll develop your drawing prowess.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to bridge principles of visual communication with emerging tools for crafting emotive digital worlds.
You’ll work with different programming languages and APIs to show your understanding of technical terms.
You’ll also master the control of game behaviors and data variables.
By recognising patterns in syntax, you’ll be able to write or forecast code outcomes accurately, establishing essential skills for creating functional game systems and mechanics.
You’ll test code and asset creation techniques aligned to brief specifications and actively identify and resolve product issues from visual bugs to interactive mechanics.
The collaborative context requires coherent documentation and excellent team communication.
By the end of the module you’ll be equipped with project lifecycle experience - from aligned ideation to an optimised, playable game demo.
Learn how gameplay mechanics, storytelling, and level design work together by studying successful games.
By looking at important academic sources, you’ll improve your academic writing skills and come up with original game concepts.
This module is ideal for developing your own design approach and generating marketable ideas for the entertainment industry.
By analysing case studies across game creation sectors, you’ll gain insight into economic and cultural drivers of success and failure.
You’ll use specialist abilities from art to engineering and have the invaluable opportunity to enrich your technical literacy - creating pieces of work as a team that are aligned to industry priorities.
In this module, you’ll work with others to explore game ideas from concept to execution.
Learn how to do market research, business strategy, marketing planning, and pitching with lecturers’ guidance.
Work on team projects and presentations to assess the usefulness of game concepts and plan for their commercial success.
By the end, you’ll have the entrepreneurial mindset, collaboration skills, and industry knowledge to set up your own studio or prosper in one.
You’ll evaluate communication strategies and lead discussions that align desired outcomes with audience needs.
By analysing management styles and work-life philosophies, you’ll devise balanced, ethical frameworks to enrich sustainable practices.
With critical reflection, you’ll be equipped to champion inclusive spaces where all voices are valued - driving innovation through unity.
You'll gain familiarity with common code patterns and mechanisms for implementing interactivity, guided by code analysis and experimentation.
Through programming challenges, you'll apply your skills to build small-scale yet engaging gameplay prototypes.
This module provides the core technical knowledge to start realising your visions as playable game experiences.
By evaluating different programming approaches, you'll develop the implementation skills to advance your game projects from concept to playable prototype.
You'll investigate major game engines and collaboratively evaluate their potential.
Choosing an appropriate technology, you'll undertake a hands-on project to build a small-scale game interface.
Through this focused task, you'll gain practical experience working with industry-standard tools.
By the end, you'll have developed core technical knowledge to start interfacing games using professional APIs.
Apply design theories and professional methods to produce playable versions of games across various genres.
By testing these games and thinking critically, you’ll spot what’s working and what’s not, then hone your games bit by bit.
You’ll thoroughly analyse how to make games fair and exciting, discover how game elements can lead to new gameplay, and learn how to polish the game rules and play.
You’ll take a game idea all the way to a refined prototype that’s ready to be turned into a digital game.
This module will boost your abilities in coming up with ideas, making paper prototypes, testing games, and refining them — all crucial skills for a budding game designer.
Above all, you’ll see how making prototypes quickly and getting user feedback lead to better games.
By evaluating concepts from algebra to trigonometry, you’ll grasp their integration and solve technical challenges to elevate product capabilities and optimise performance.
You’ll develop your problem solving skills through industry-inspired exercises, as this module provides crucial analytical foundations that are transferrable to programming roles - where mathematical fluency intersects with code to create dynamic interactive experiences.
You'll learn standard console hardware, software, and workflows.
Create optimized software under console restrictions and use profiling tools for smooth gameplay.
Develop pro-grade games with console dev kits, APIs, and documentation.
This module upgrades console development skills for success in the games industry.
Get ready to ideate, plan, and execute games — tailored to market needs — to thrive as a game designer in industry.
As part of the design process, you’ll analyse game genres to understand mechanics, systems, and documentation.
From that, you’ll create professional design documents for an original game concept and enrich your concept by evaluating commercial contexts to consider target platforms and audiences.
In the last stage, your ideas will come to life through a digital prototype, presenting your gameplay and innovation.
By completing this module, you’ll gain first-hand experience of taking a game from concept to playable build.
Putting methodologies into practice, this module develops adaptable leadership and communication abilities — empowering you to set direction and motivate groups to achieve shared goals.
You'll get essential experience for coordinating projects involving creative programmers and artists.
You'll oversee schedules, resources and workflow, emerging as a collaborative producer ready for industry challenges.
Building on prior project experience, you'll evaluate approaches to optimise outcomes for stakeholders.
You'll cement your ability to strategically manage creative undertakings.
Analysing wider leadership models to hone your own style and strengths, you'll reflect on successes and areas to grow.
You will use creative applications in game development software and Adobe Creative Suite, learn to design user experiences (UX) and user interfaces (UI), discovering the principles of interaction design.
You'll explore the ethical considerations you need to craft Creative Technology projects, and create a product to apply and demonstrate your understanding in this hands on module that puts the user first.
Through lectures and discussions, you’ll explore academic perspectives, covering analytical, cultural, and design approaches.
You’ll think critically about old and new ideas, using theories such as Huizinga’s ‘magic circle’ to examine game structures, content, and players.
You’ll also focus on how to research games, using various methods to understand them in context.
By the end, you’ll be able to study games academically.
This knowledge is great for your final-year projects, further study, or jobs in game production, journalism, user testing, and research and development.
You’ll end up with a firm grasp of games as a cultural form, preparing you for an industry or academic career in games.
You’ll learn to use game data like player input, physics, and game states to design reactive soundscapes that adapt as you play.
Explore how to create non-linear music and sounds that can be generated on the fly.
Pick up industry skills in audio middleware to build systems that can mix and switch sounds dynamically.
Make and produce your own music and sound effects that work well with interactive elements.
Use coding to create your own audio plugins.
Show off your technical and artistic skills with an interactive audio project in a game engine.
This intense training in a specialised area will give you expertise that game studios really want.
The module also gives you valuable experience in managing projects as you turn your sound ideas into reality.
Challenge what’s possible in game audio and let your creativity soar.
You will work on an artefact, either in a group or independently.
These artefacts will allow students to demonstrate their understanding of the fundamental concepts of game systems.
Delve into the latest algorithms, rendering, and development tools that drive interactive media.
Use real-life examples and exercises to examine the technologies shaping the future of games, animation, and more.
Get tips from leading graphics researchers and develop the advanced skills you need to be innovative — whether in business or academic work.
Once you finish, you’ll be set to use the latest graphic techniques to make your own virtual worlds.
This module will motivate you to keep pushing the envelope.
You’ll look at basic psychology ideas, like how people think, feel, and act, and how they relate to player experiences.
Delve into perception, memory, rewards, and social interactions, and how to use them to make fun gameplay and powerful stories.
By testing theories and principles, you'll get better at analysing how game elements impact psychology.
Most of all, you’ll find out how human psychology affects player engagement and enjoyment.
This knowledge will help you make design choices based on scientific theory.
In the end, this module gives you a psychological toolkit to create amazing, unforgettable player experiences.
By producing platform-specific demos, you’ll use suitable languages and asset optimisation techniques to critically assess hardware capabilities and audience priorities.
You’ll gain insight into commercial programming challenges, and this will enable strategic consideration of economic factors when proposing content across emerging channels.
You will dive into essential AI concepts, from academia to industry, and practice making AI alone or in a group.
You will get to use methods like pathfinding, decision trees, and machine learning to create more engaging games.
Additionally, you will explore various strategies for AI challenges in games and learn how to create realistic characters through advanced knowledge and reasoning.
By completing this module, you'll gain genuine experience in enhancing AI for more engaging games.
Your skills will be in high demand for jobs in AI and game creation.
I started exploring how I could combine my passion for video games and Esports with my future development and stumbled across the ...
Computer Games Enterprise course.
[It] looked like the perfect combination of technical development and creativity.
Tyler Truett-Bond, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Enterprise alumnus
We work with game developers and professional bodies such as The Independent Game Developers Association (TIGA) to make sure the course content stays up-to-date with industry trends and developments.
So your skills will be up to date when you finish the course.
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Games Production in 2026, apply through UCAS.
Apply for this part-time course using our online application form .
Our courses fill up quickly, so submit your application as soon as you decide which course you want to study.
You can sign up to an Open Day to:
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Games Production with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computer-games-technology:
Learn how to develop computer games from experts with extensive knowledge and industry connections using advanced gaming development facilities.
G452,                      G453
As a student on our TIGA-accredited BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology degree, you'll develop the skills to turn ideas and concepts into reality, using industry-standard design and development techniques.
Graduates from this course are working on big titles at Rockstar and Electronic Arts, classics at Rare, and developing homegrown Indie Games.
This is your opportunity to join them.
This course is accredited by TIGA (The Independent Game Developers' Association) as delivering skills relevant to the games industry.
In 2024, several University of Portsmouth graduates won at the TIGA UK Games Education Awards , including  ‘Outstanding TIGA Graduate of the Year: Programmer’.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology.
You may need to have studied specific subjects – find full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept.
If you don't meet the English language requirements yet, you can achieve the level you need by successfully completing a pre-sessional English programme .
With 95% of our graduates finding work within a year after university, you'll be confident to graduate with sought-after skills and knowledge for various careers.
Besides the gaming industry, you can apply the skills you develop to other areas using such technologies – including virtual production, virtual/alternative reality (VR/AR), simulation training and healthcare.
Our graduates work at some of the biggest industry names, including:
...
I’ll continue to develop the skills I learned at the University of Portsmouth and use them to make some great games.
After completing a placement year with games studio Rare, I was fortunate enough to be offered a graduate role.
Sarah Ryan, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology 2020 graduate
Previous students have been successful in placement roles such as:
They've interned at exciting gaming and technology companies, including:
Prisha Gellaboina – Criterion Games
Prisha – interning as a Software Engineer – explains how she applied for her placement, what she does, and what she's learned.
Read about Prisha's placement
Study different programming languages and development environments to learn about key computer science ideas.
These include memory management and debugging.
This module equips you to use your basic coding skills for a portfolio project.
By the end, you’ll be able to showcase your ability to turn usability principles into practical, user-friendly experiences.
You'll on understanding the requirements involved in releasing games on distribution platforms and consequently finishing and launching a small-scale, feature-complete, polished game project.
George Honeywell, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology 2020 graduate
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Computer Games Technology degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars, tutorials, and practical classes and workshops for about 9 hours a week.
You may need to spend £25–£50 per annum on drawing materials.
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Computer Games Technology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
If you're new to the application process, read our guide on applying for an undergraduate course.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-criminology:
Study criminology on this degree and prepare for a career in the police, probation or prison services.
L315,                      L316
Why do people commit crimes?
And what should we do about it?
From offender to victim, punishment to rehabilitation, this BSc (Hons) Criminology degree asks questions about the causes and consequences of crime.
The answers may surprise you.
They’ll certainly help you choose the right career path.
As you become an expert on criminology and the criminal justice system in England and Wales, you’ll develop skills for a range of careers – from policing and prisons, to probation and rehabilitation, as well as roles fighting fraud in the private sector or influencing Government policy.
And because crime doesn’t respect borders, this course also gives you a uniquely international perspective.
The module Economic Crime and Fraud Examination is recognised by ACFE (a global professional body for counter fraud professionals) and undertaking it provides opportunities for full-time students to complete the Certified Fraud Examiner qualification at a subsidised rate.
Our BSc (Hons) Criminology course will make you an expert on the criminal justice system in England and Wales.
It'll launch you into a range of exciting careers, from policing and prisons, to probation and rehabilitation, as well as roles fighting fraud in the private sector or influencing Government policy.
Nicola
The course itself has been broad enough for me to expand my knowledge and horizons in a way I never would have considered before.
Laura Haggar
This course draws on various disciplines, really.
Thinking about Criminology, Psychology and Sociology.
Michela Scalpello
The next part of the course takes us into the more practical side; the criminal justice area, where we look at how the courts operate, policing and prisons.
So it really gives a nice mix of both theory and practice.
This course offers individuals really the opportunity to start to specialise and develop their own interest in their areas of expertise, which of course is really useful for them then thinking about their employment prospects, what they might want to do.
The career I’m looking to go into would be something along wildlife crime.
We hear the issues of wildlife, but then there's so much more to it and my teachers were so passionate and it suddenly just it blew out of a proportion.
I loved it so much.
I mean, I'm just like passionate about it now.
We've got a number of staff here who have experiences within the criminal justice system.
So, what that also means is that we're really able to put into practice and apply those kind of theoretical underpinnings.
I've come from a prison setting.
We've got staff from policing and probation - it's fascinating really.
Anwar
Policing in Society was one of my favourite topics; how it impacts people in different ways.
As a black criminologist myself, I love the social aspects of Criminology.
Students have the opportunity to undertake study abroad placements in Europe and in Australia.
This gives them a really broad sense of how it works internationally to bring good practice back to the UK as well.
In much the same way with our placements, we do have a dedicated team that will support students who are interested.
Those sorts of extra skills are kind of important for employment and what an opportunity!
When I'm speaking to students, one of the things that they notice is how friendly staff are, how passionate we are about supporting their learning journeys.
How they respect us and we respect them - it's just amazing.
If you have a problem in your assignment, you can talk to them and they'll help you solve it.
I felt very, very supported by the lecturers.
I feel like within Criminology, I want to leave a lasting impact within our world, even if it's not seen - some sort of legacy or something that's impacted people in a positive way, or making change and help where I can.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Criminology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology.
You don't need to study specific subjects at school or college to do this criminology degree.
But you may find it useful to have covered some of these subjects:
Crime is a fact of life, which means there will always be career opportunities around preventing it and dealing with the fallout.
As our graduates’ career paths show, you’ll complete this criminology course with a range of different professional routes open to you in the public, private and charitable sectors.
There is good demand for jobs in the criminal justice and penal sector.
For example, Her Majesty's Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) has developed a Probation Workforce Strategy to recruit skilled people to probation officer roles and invest in ongoing professional development.
You'll graduate with the skills and knowledge you need to work in the police, probation and prison services in areas such as:
You'll also have relevant skills or knowledge to progress into other areas such as:
We are one of a select few universities in the UK recognised by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) - a global professional body for counter fraud professionals.
If you take the optional module Economic Crime and Fraud Examination on this course, you'll have the chance to complete the ACFE's Certified Fraud Examiner qualification at a subsidised rate .
Matt graduated in 2018 with a Criminology and Criminal Justice degree from the University of Portsmouth.
He is now a Probation Practice Research Assistant.
Find out what Matt’s role entails and how he’s applying the skills he learned during his time at Portsmouth
Matt: My name is Matt.
I'm currently working as a probation practice research assistant.
I wanted to study criminology at the University of Portsmouth because of its reputation.
I just found that the staff were supportive.
I loved my cohort, they were absolutely fantastic and I love the approach that they took whilst I was there.
So supportive, so willing to let me adapt and evolve as a criminologist.
I started off as very shy and not a lot of confidence, and I feel like I definitely flourished during my time there.
My four week placement at the Portsmouth City Council was about crime and anti-social behaviour research, and I feel that experience really gave me that edge when I went for my first job outside of university.
I found there was an internship at the Royal Courts of Justice, despite there being quite a few applications, I was very lucky to get the role.
I chose to apply for the Royal Courts of Justice here because it was in my chosen field, I've done work beforehand in probation and in prison.
It just gave you a really good insight into how the court system is run.
My first week of properly working in the Royal Courts of Justice, I remember there were people cheering and people shouting and I was a bit confused.
I thought, this is a very grand gesture for someone's first week, but I looked behind me and Johnny Depp is coming in for his court case, which was certainly a very interesting experience for someone's first week of work!
I love criminology.
I would say my motivation is definitely to help people.
My particular interest is about looking at gender and sexuality and how that is understood and how that is dealt with by the criminal justice system.
I feel like the stuff that I am producing and the stuff that I'm researching has got wide implications and will benefit people.
Without the University of Portsmouth, I would definitely not be the person I am today.
Our criminology graduates have worked for organisations including:
Roles our previous graduates have gone onto include:
After your second or third year of study, you can choose to do a relevant, paid work placement year in the UK or overseas.
Previous criminology placements have included:
You can also spend this year studying overseas at one of our partner universities in Europe, South Asia, Australia or North America.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology
You'll analyse crime as a social problem, learning how to define crime within society and examining its impact.
You'll also think about social justice issues in relation to inequality and crime, and review the way society responds to criminal acts.
You'll be introduced to major theoretical approaches in psychology, looking at how these are applied in the real world in like investigation, offender treatment, risk assessment, policing and crime research.
You’ll learn how to engage across disciplines, access relevant information, appreciate ethical practice and communicate your written ideas effectively.
You'll analyse the benefits and practicalities of comparing criminal justice systems using case studies that compare the UK against a range of other countries, from France, the USA and the Nordic countries, to Japan, Malta and Turkey.
Engaging with different stages of legal processes, you’ll challenge assumptions by unpacking how social norms and values shape prosecutions, sentencing and victim support worldwide.
You'll use what you’ve learned so far about criminology and psychology to analyse examples of missing persons cases, from the perspectives of the missing people, their families, responders in the criminal justice system, and offenders.
This will help you suggest your own meaningful reforms to the theories, laws and policies that govern missing persons cases, as well as how these cases are viewed by society and the media.
You’ll cover a wide range of human rights such as the right to fair trial, the right to be free from torture, and the right to life, evaluating how states incorporate (or fail to incorporate) these rights into their criminal justice systems.
You’ll analyse the primary instruments of human rights and the case-law of different international and regional human rights bodies.
This module puts crime into a social context and develops a critical approach in addressing how global issues impact the dynamics of the relationship between human rights and criminal justice.
You'll compare the latest modern and contemporary theories, analysing how crime and social control are managed today.
By thinking critically about the work of leading theorists, you'll evaluate shifts in state power, punishment, and the expanding boundaries of criminology.
This module will help you to confidently engage with current debates and new perspectives in criminology.
You'll explore this question on this module, examining the impact of new technologies on modern criminality, and hearing from specialist lecturers and guest speakers, all experts in cybercrime and its related fields.
You'll explore topics like 3D printing and crime, body-worn cameras, electronic monitoring tech, Artificial Intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things, the use of the internet in prisons, and more, depending on the latest tech advancements.
You will be provided to access to Association of Certified Fraud Examiners resources and learning materials.
The module is taught through interactive seminars from certified fraud examiners, experienced professionals and other experts in the field.
You will gain the key skills needed towards the fight against fraud and other economic crimes.
You'll explore how investigating serious and organised crime works, learning key strategies and procedures used by police and others within the criminal justice system.
Sharpen your analytical skills by weighing up investigative approaches, major incident procedures and forensic techniques, as well as their legal and ethical parameters.
You'll take a detailed view of the historical and modern-day right-wing extremist parties, pressure groups and street movements in Britain, including the British Union of Fascists, the National Front, the British National Party, the ‘counter-jihad’ English Defence League and Britain First.
You'll also evaluate arguments from contemporary criminological accounts on the extreme right, such as Realist Criminology and Cultural Criminology.
You'll consider psychological theories related to criminal justice issues.
Forensic techniques you'll cover include deception detection and the cognitive interview, thinking about the role of psychology within these methods.
Skills you'll strengthen include locating key information, critically applying theory to problems, and effectively communicating your ideas in writing.
You'll look at high-profile examples of miscarriages of justice and what led them to occur, from poor police work to 'junk science'.
You'll also discover how advances in forensic science can help prevent injustices, and explore research that will give you an international perspective on the rights of suspects and appeals processes.
You'll learn how criminals make their dirty money appear as 'clean' and how terrorist finance their activities.
Yo will also learn how to fight these crimes in organisations, including how organisations must manage their internal systems.
Based on the topic area you choose, you will be assigned a supervisor with whom you'll have a series of timetabled group tutorial sessions and individual supervision meetings, so that you are supported throughout your research.
I love studying Criminology at Portsmouth because it’s so up to date with current research.
Abbey Campbell, BSc Hons Criminology and Criminal Justice student
Teaching staff include current and former practitioners who have worked in roles such as police officer, probation officer, private investigator and search and rescue worker.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Criminology degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities, such as lectures, seminars and workshops for about 9 hours a week.
Paul Sammons, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Criminal Justice Studies student
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
If you'd prefer to apply directly, use our online application form:
Texts you might want to explore beforehand include:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-criminology-and-cybercrime:
L311,                      L310
Join the global mission to stop criminals exploiting the internet.
On the UK’s first BSc (Hons) course in Criminology and Cybercrime, you'll explore the future of policing and how criminal organisations operate online.
You'll learn to make a difference, not by fighting tech with tech, but by understanding the human aspects of cybercrime.
Cyber is always evolving, so this course does too.
You can choose from wide range of innovative and topical modules – from cybersecurity, online terrorism and digital forensics, to cyberdeviance and cyberpsychology.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Criminology and Cybercrime with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology and Cybercrime.
If you're looking to do a degree, especially in Criminology, there is no other place to look for it.
In terms of support and the type of courses you can get and just in terms of quality of living, it’s a beautiful city.
Aanand Nair, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Cybercrime and winner of Undergraduate Dissertation Prize – Criminology and Cybercrime, Graduation 2023
As part of this criminology and cybercrime degree, you'll team up with the expert team in our Cybercrime Awareness Clinic.
You'll help to provide cybercrime awareness advice to individuals, community groups, schools, colleges and other organisations, as well as conducting research into cybercrime awareness and prevention.
You'll use what you learn to help develop clinic materials, conduct community research or participate in awareness projects, building your employability and understanding of real cybercrime awareness processes.
Employers around the globe are very interested in graduates with cybercrime expertise.
In our increasingly digital world, the demand is likely to grow.
Once you graduate this course in criminology and cybercrime, you'll be well prepared for a wide range of roles, especially those focused on the human side of cybercrime.
You'll graduate ready for opportunities in the police force, policy making organisations and new technology.
Specialist areas for you in the public and private sector include:
You could also progress to postgraduate study in criminology or cybercrime.
You could have a career in digital investigation, crime prevention, and security consultancy.
With skills that are in high demand, potential roles could include:
If you're interested in probation work or community justice, you can graduate from this course with pre-entry qualifications for a career in those fields.
This can give you a real advantage when applying for jobs.
Your lecturers can advise you on the right modules to choose.
It's fantastic for your CV and will really help you stand out when applying for jobs.
We'll help you secure a work placement that fits your aspirations – whatever they might be.
Previous students have secured placement positions at organisations such as the Hampshire Constabulary High Tech Crime Unit.
You can also spend this year studying overseas at one of our partner universities in Europe, Canada, Australia or South Korea.
Find out about Alfred's placement on ORPHEUS, a cross-European project designed to tackle the radicalisation of young people.
Read about Alfred's placement
You’ll focus on risk analysis, information security policy design and implementation, assessing different security solutions for different types of organisations.
You’ll also design your own security policies based on what you learn, create and evaluate disaster recovery plans, and assess the human, legal and ethical factors in play when developing vital security policies.
I chose this course as the cybercrime landscape is, unfortunately, expanding exponentially.
The course looks to address the potential motives of a cyber criminal as well as a strong focus on the methods used to commit a cyber crime – the bridge between the technical and human side of cyber!
Portsmouth University are leading the way in the future of criminology offering a course dedicated to crimes in the digital age.
Holly Foxcroft, BSc Hons Criminology and Cybercrime student
Simona.Ciobotaru@port.ac.uk
School of Criminology and Criminal Justice
This course combines traditional criminology with an innovative look into information technologies and the future of crime and policing.
It offers exciting new modules on cybercrime, the darkweb and digital investigations as well as real-life experience through participation in the cybercrime awareness clinic and interaction with practitioners.
Join us into bridging the past with the future of criminology.
Dr Vasileios Karagiannapoulos, Reader in Cybercrime and Cybersecurity
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BSc Hons Criminology and Cybercrime degree.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Cybercrime in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Cybercrime with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-criminology-and-forensic-investigation:
Explore forensics from every angle and discover what makes a criminal.
Using facilities shared with a real police force, develop forensic skills and learn innovative ideas.
LF30,                      LF31
120-128 UCAS points from 3 A levels, or equivalent
If you want to help solve crimes, it pays to understand criminality from many different angles.
This course gives you much broader skills, knowledge and experience than a more traditional ‘forensic science’ degree.
Using facilities shared with a real police force, this degree is always relevant, innovative and up-to-date.
From crime scene to evidence lab to court room, you’ll find out how forensic investigation fits into the history, policy and practice of the criminal justice system.
And you’ll study the causes of crime, learning what really makes a criminal.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Investigation with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Investigation.
Specialist equipment with an impact on professional forensic practice and research
Explore the forensic facilities you might use at Portsmouth, and see the real, professional impact of our close working relationships with the Defence School of Policing and Hants Constabulary Forensic Innovation Partnership.
Dr Kat Brown: The University of Portsmouth has unique, long-standing relationships with many local and national agencies.
We are here today at Southwick Park, which is the Defence School of Policing and Guarding.
We're able to have these partnerships through our Forensic Innovation Centre and that allows us to build on their expertise as well as their facilities.
The facility that we have here is particularly useful for complex and serious crimes around body recovery, taphonomy and entomology.
We can use our SIM bodies in these situations to accurately mimic crimes and this means that our students can get really involved in the science, but also think critically about why they're doing what they're doing and what the bigger context and the bigger picture is.
Dr Helen McGonigal: As well as the indoor teaching facilities here, we also have this wonderful outdoor space.
We're developing a unique aquatic decomposition facility here which allows us to explore the decomposition of insect carcases and associated evidence, for recreating death scenes.
For our postgraduate researchers and also for our undergraduates, it gives them a valuable insight into some of the work that they could be doing after graduation.
We also have training opportunities here for the military, policing and mass fatality incident colleagues for them to be able to use cutting edge research as part of their work.
Dr Katie Jetten: Our undergraduate degree programme, criminology and forensic studies, enables students to get practical experience alongside their classroom based studies.
Some of the things we might get students to do are work in crime scene investigation simulation suites in a wide range of environments, but also with our extensive research capabilities in our research facility, which we call The Stables.
The purpose of our stables is to facilitate academic research and also student research projects.
Some of the spaces we might have our forensic ecology laboratory spaces.
We also have a dedicated fingerprint visualisation room.
We have an imaging studio with a wide range of techniques and we also have biological and chemical spaces in order to do work such as DNA work.
Dr Helen Earwaker: Our students have a really broad range of interests that sit right across the spectrum of the criminal justice system.
I'm incredibly proud of the work that our students do as part of the course and the programme.
The research that they undertake has the potential for huge impact, for practice and for those partner organisations that we work with.
This is really enhanced through the use of the facilities that we have here at the University of Portsmouth.
Because this course blends criminology and forensic investigation, you’ll graduate with a particularly broad range of careers open to you.
Your lecturers can help you identify the options that excite you most, so you can choose to study modules that fit your ambitions.
You’ll be especially well-prepared for the wide variety of criminal justice careers where forensic awareness plays a key role – from forensic practitioner in the police, probation or prison services, through to rewarding areas of expertise like community safety, crime prevention and criminological research.
More broadly, the impressive problem-solving skills you develop could prove valuable in all kinds of careers.
I have loved my time at University.
My dissertation supervisor in particular was really helpful and supportive, and I had a great time.
I won the dissertation prize for Criminology and Forensic Studies, based on my dissertation on incels' relationships with their female relatives.
Mia Lowther, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Studies and winner of Undergraduate Dissertation Prize for Criminology and Forensic Studies, Graduation 2023
Our graduates have gone on to roles including:
You could also do postgraduate study in areas such as forensic science.
After your second or third year of study, you can choose to do a paid work placement year.
This lets you put your new skills to work while developing valuable links with employers in the crime and forensic investigation field.
You can also spend this year studying overseas at one of our partner universities in Europe, South Asia or North America.
Without my placement experience, I wouldn’t have considered this aspect of forensic work.
I’m looking to complete a Master's in this subject area as a result.
Kristie Thorne, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Studies
You'll also have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner universities.
Studying overseas is a fantastic opportunity to enhance your CV and experience a different culture as an international student.
Many of our students describe their time spent studying abroad as truly life-changing, as well as an excellent way to stand out to future employers.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Investigation
You'll examine the techniques used in forensic investigations, how crime scenes are controlled and how evidence is the recovered.
You'll also think about the effectiveness of different crime scene and forensic approaches, in terms of the value they bring to criminal investigations.
You'll build on what you've learned in your first year, exploring and discussing the significance of forensic findings and how the results of analysis have implications within the criminal justice system.
You'll develop a deeper understanding of the current techniques involved in forensic science activities, the broader issues prevalent in evidence analysis, and its application to investigations.
Through court reports and quizzes, you'll get to grips with the results of a forensic investigation and be able to explain them effectively, determining the value of different evidence types within a criminal investigation.
You'll get an introduction the role of forensic investigation in mass fatality events.
You'll focus on topics such as missing persons, body search and recovery, family assistance, and identification methods.
This module will introduce you to complex forensic investigations, from the onset of a case through to court proceedings.
You'll be equipped with the knowledge and skills needed to tackle intricate investigations involving multiple types of evidence, whilst adhering to standards which govern forensic practice.
You'll explore the physiology of death and the way different environments affect decomposition.
Through subjects like archaeology, anthropology and botany, you'll interpret post-mortem factors to locate, identify and extract investigation data from human remains.
You'll also explore how taphonomy helps with the identification of unidentified remains, as well as the challenges and constraints of different forensic techniques.
My favourite part of my course is the passionate lecturers who are experts in their field who make the course not only up-to-date, but keep the content exciting!
Rebecca Slattery, BSc Hons Criminology and Forensic Studies
How does the CSI activity we see in films and TV dramas compare to the real world?
How do investigations differ around the world?
And what are the myths of Crime Scene Investigation?
In this episode of Life Solved, we take a look at the realities of Crime Scene Investigation or CSI with our lecturer, Zoe Cadwell, and Winchester University's Selina Robinson, who both used to be Crime Scene Investigators.
Hello and thanks for watching this Life Solved short.
I'm Robyn Montague, and in these videos we get to meet the University of Portsmouth researchers and their colleagues sharing their work in the latest series of the Life Solved podcast.
This is work that's changing our world for the better in all sorts of ways.
We've all watched CSI thrillers on TV and in the cinema.
Screens are full of actors dressed in overalls, finding the tiniest smudge of DNA in the corner of a crime scene and getting the criminals behind bars by the end of the episode.
Pretty impressive.
But how does the reality of CSI investigation compare to that told on the screen?
And how do approaches vary around the world?
Well, I'm joined by Zoe Cadwell, senior lecturer in forensic studies at the University of Portsmouth, and Selina Robinson, who's a lecturer in forensic investigation just down the road at the University of Winchester.
So Zoe and Selina, thank you very much for joining me today.
You both used to work in CSI.
So it's not just the academic side of things you guys are involved in.
What drew you to a career in CSI originally, and how did the realities of that actually meet your expectations?
I think I went into crime scene investigation, as we all do, because we have this want to and desire to want to solve a mystery, I suppose.
I think unfortunately suspicious and unsuspicious, deaths are going to be something that continues.
So there's not going to be a lack of that.
And it was really an exciting prospect, a unique career, something physical, something challenging, something that was really cool.
And yeah, I was sadly quite disappointed when I became a crime scene investigator, not because the job wasn't fantastic, not because of the people, but I think the changes that were implemented into the landscape of forensics is is really changing how you do the role.
I think my experience is slightly different because I'm a slightly older than Selina, so I came into the role many, many years ago, over 20 years ago, and at that time it wasn't really well known what this role was and there was no TV shows.
So a lot of people, I think, now see the TV shows and think that's what I want to do.
Where is that?
Exposure wasn't in place.
I'd read books as a child crime books and seen photographs of crime scenes and said, that's what I want to do, even though I didn't know what the job was.
And I actually studied archaeology.
And then, as Selina said, it was about piecing together mysteries.
So as an archaeologist, you excavate pieces of evidence and you look at the surroundings and you pick these tiny little pieces of artefacts
and evidence together and try and interpret what happened for those things to be where they are, where you found them.
And actually that transposes really well into crime scene investigation.
There's actually quite a lot of people who studied archaeology that become crime scene investigators, including Selina.
You did archaeology, didn't you?
Yes.
So it has these transferable skills and it is about that mystery solving and putting jigsaws together with little tiny pieces of evidence.
When I got into the role, it was everything I hoped it would be.
But of course I didn't have all this overexposure and expectation.
And yeah, I got to solve mysteries, not on my own, not Scooby-Do style, but as part of a wider, really important team within policing.
And I really enjoyed it.
And you say they're about the archaeology thing and some people might be listening to that and thinking that's a bit of a stretch.
But actually, you know, Indiana Jones, can I just say, he did a lot of archaeology slash crime scene and running around trying to catch bad guys.
So it's not that much of a jump.
Well, if you think about it as well, we excavate human remains in archaeology.
And that's certainly where I started was excavating human remains, as in undergraduate.
Then I went into postgraduate in forensic archaeology.
So that's my background is forensic archaeology.
So there really it really isn't a leap between archaeology and crime scene investigation at all.
And I suppose, you know, you saying that you've got a fair bit of a difference when you started your career and you started your career.
But I mean, in between that gap you had shows like CSI was huge.
And then you have Bones, I think was another one where again, that was, you know, excavating human remains that were fairly old, all these different shows and programmes.
And what was it about these that you think caught people's attention?
Why were they interested in shows like this?
We saw a massive uptick in applications to crime scene investigation roles once these shows sort of hit the TV.
And I think it is just that I think there's the drama side of it.
Personally, I think they glamorised the role.
CSI, I think was probably the first one, the main one, and it was so glamorous.
They all had perfect hair and perfect nails and heels and a gun, which obviously I've never had.
No one's ever let me.
Have a smoke in the crime scene.
Wear the sunglasses.
So I think it was the glamorisation of solving crime.
But for once, it wasn't police officers.
It was people who were using science and some new kind of sexy subjects that perhaps hadn't been explored on TV before.
And when we say CSI, quite often you think of it as just sort of blood and, you know, a murder scene or
a scene where there's a fair amount of stuff going on that's, you know, from a person's body.
But that's not necessarily the case.
Now, you know, in CSI, it's evolved quite significantly, especially with digital advancements.
So how has it changed over the past 20 odd years?
And I think it's such a fast moving field.
So what was advanced five years ago might not actually be as advanced now.
And that's the great thing about forensics, because like there's an appetite for it.
It's always evolving.
It's always advancing, which is great, but it still builds on the foundations of original concepts of recovery.
So fingerprinting hasn't really changed, actually, probably from when you started and when I started.
Even now, what the students are learning is very much the same as what it was,
but there are slightly different techniques, a little bit more advanced about how we analyse it, how we interpret it.
It's it's a holistic approach really that's advancing as opposed to the changes of how we just recover evidence.
I think the major change for me has been DNA.
I started at a time when to recover DNA we had to have a significant, really visible stain so it would be blood or something.
And now, of course, we're down to cellular level of DNA recovery.
So for me, that's the biggest change in technology.
But some of the underlying changes that perhaps we might learn a little bit more about as academics and then hopefully we'll see filter through to practitioners is about how we think as CSI is.
So when I started, there was not much thinking about thinking, and now there's an awful lot of thinking about thinking, how do we do this?
But why do we do it?
Why am I doing this?
And why am I feeling the way I'm feeling?
Am I being biased by anything in this case or in this crime scene that's altering my approach to it?
So for me, that's a really exciting change in development and crime scene investigation
that perhaps people don't talk about so much is definitely the thought processes in the decision making.
As part of your roles as CSI investigators, what were the things you were looking at in particular?
Were there particular crimes that you were focusing on?
I think the biggest myth is that it's all about murder and the TV shows.
I mean, Silent Witness, CSI, other shows that we might mention during this podcast,
they're always predominantly focussed on the most serious crimes, which is murder.
But actually, as crime scene investigators our day to day or bread and butter investigations tend to be what we call volume crimes.
So volume crime is defined as something that happens so frequently.
So it things generally, in a nutshell, is vehicle crime and property crime, say burglaries to houses and burglaries to commercial premises.
So people don't really realise that that's actually what we're kind of doing day in, day out,
what we call the bigger jobs, the major crime jobs are not happening thankfully every day.
And really we're out there talking to members of the public that are victims of crime, and I think that's really the day to day job that that goes unnoticed.
Would you say?
I would agree.
And that actually reminds me of some of the things I've seen in CSI programs where it's if it's a major crime is a team that comes in,
not the local or regional CSI department that covers it.
That's what you tend to find in these dramatised versions of CSI.
Is that the case here?
Would it be another team or would you guys handle because it's your area?
No, not.
So much even area.
I think certainly in Hampshire, if you are sort of you're the lead CSI or the lead crime scene manager, you're the one that controls or manages that scene.
You can probably if as a manager, you could probably say, I want to see a slice to come in and then we can swap after 8 hours just for respite mental health.
But we would never outsource another team to do the job that we'd be doing.
We'd use other teams such as chemical treatment unit, fingerprinting, digital.
So if they want to come and do three sixty cameras or U.V.
lighting or something more specialist that we don't have in our backpack when we're at that crime scene, but they outsource.
Yeah, I think I think the main way to look at it is there's two levels in most police forces.
There's two levels of CSI, a level one and a level two.
They might have slightly different names depending on different forces.
Call their staff different titles.
But essentially you're you're trained initially to do the volume crime work, and then you get trained to be able to do the major crime work.
And then above that, you can be trained to be a crime scene manager.
Say that's the person that's in charge of the staff at that scene.
But it is the the the county employed or the police force employed
CSIs that will come whoever is on duty, whoever's got the required training, come and do that scene.
But as Selina says, we might bring specialists in from what we call forensic science providers.
So they are the laboratories that work externally to the police where we submit our evidence for analysis.
So these might be blood spatter
experts say that forensic biologists, if it's a shooting, they may be a forensic ballistic expert.
And of course, the pathologists that we see in so many of the TV programs is an external person
as well that may come to the scene, but more likely will encounter them at the mortuary.
But the actual people examining that scene are the CSIs that were employed in that area, in that geographical area.
And when you go into a scene, who's in charge?
Because again, it can get quite confusing when you watch these shows.
Is it the detective?
Is it the crime scene investigator?
Who who's technically responsible for managing that scene at that time?
I don't think anybody would like to use the word in-charge.
But in a volume crime scene, it's the CSI, because there's usually just you there.
You're the only person there with the victim of crime.
So it's up to in a major crime, it's the crime scene manager.
So they work out the strategy with the senior investigating officer.
They work out the forensic strategy, what's priority, what needs to be done in the order things are done.
And the CSI is do follow that strategy.
It's very rare for detectives to be in the scene.
That's another thing that's quite unusual in the TV shows.
In my experience, the CIA certainly is in is very busy in a briefing room at headquarters coordinating lots and lots of investigative leads.
So they are not there walking around the scene.
It tends to just be the forensic team, because with advances in technology now as well, we can get our images out to the briefing room
from the scene really quickly so that that way we can minimise the number of people that are in that scene, which is really important for contamination.
And you said a second ago sometimes you have to change shift if you're there for 8 hours or more.
I mean, how long can crime scene investigations be opened for?
I think how long's piece of string really?
Volume crime of of always going to actually be quicker,
especially if it's just yourself in a two bedroom house, one bedroom flat, you know, that's going to be quicker.
Sometimes they do take longer if it's a lovely affluent property, six bedrooms, but
major crimes, depending on the type of crime, depending on how many resources you need.
Because if we do need to call from forensic specialism within the department, then we need to wait for them to arrive.
We need to wait for them to finish, and then we can go back in and support it.
Yeah, but I think the crime scene managers that I've worked with have been really good at trying to manage the welfare
of the crime scene investigators within the scene of the major crime.
So it's usually, can I go to get a coffee, can I get anyone some lunch?
But usually I feel we're quite the same.
Once you're in there, you just want to just want to do it.
Just want to get as much done.
Do as much as you can do before you absolutely have to clock off.
And then in those circumstances, where may have to go into the next sort of shifts,
they'll seal the property up, have a guard at the door or outside of the area, and then you have to return the next day.
I think I've had scenes that've been open for weeks and go back every day and then it tails off to a point and things get left.
Then you go back because it just gets sealed and
there's certain other things or other specialists that need to come.
So I think you can fully expect sort of long 12, 15 hour days in the initial stages of a murder enquiry,
and then that might tail off in terms of how many times you need to revisit.
But I remember a murder scene where I had to revisit it a number of times over about three or four weeks.
And then you've got after that, usually for contamination reasons, the CSI is at work, at the scene, tend to be the ones that go to the post-mortem
because we only have a finite number of CSIs.
So you can use a new set and they've already been in contact with the body and then a post mortem can last,
I think the quickest forensic post-mortem I've ever been to is about 30 minutes, and the longest was about 10 hours.
Eight or 10 hours, I think.
It sounds like such a challenging environment and I think that's fair, most people would say that sounds like a very challenging environment.
And you mentioned about mindfulness and how they check in on you to make sure that you know you're okay and that you've had a break and, you know, rested a little bit.
Has that always been the case in CSI or was that fairly new?
I was just going to say Selina was saying that that is another huge change.
I haven't been practising as a CSI for nearly nine years.
The only scene I've been on there since then was the Grenfell Tower fire, where I worked as a consultant and I noticed the huge difference in welfare at that scene to where I've worked previously.
Thankfully this does seem to have come a long way.
There's things like, you know, we did have incident support trucks and things like that, but certainly the concept of the impact on your mental health, both from working long hours and the type of work that we do, is much more understood.
But there's an awful lot more research that needs to take place.
But yeah, really, I think thankfully these things have changed because there certainly wasn't.
Unfortunately, when I started in for a long time, you signed up for it.
You knew what you were signing up for.
I was 22.
I did not know what I was signing up for.
So I find that attitude a little bit stale and I still see it on Twitter.
I saw it the other week, someone saying, you're CSI, You knew what you signed up for
and I'm sorry, but I don't think anyone really knows that they're signing up for hours and hours and hours in covered in flies and maggots and blood
and horrible smells with no access to a toilet or refreshment or anything like that.
So I think that's another myth that we do need to bust in that we're actually humans.
And thankfully, police forces are now catching on to the fact that CSIs need the support that perhaps police officers have been getting for a little bit longer.
I feel like we've touched on some of, you know, that scenario sounds like CSI,
Why would you do that job?
But you did do that job.
I mean, Zoe as well, you're looking to go back into it.
So what is it about CSI that you guys love?
It's just every day is different and you're always going to be tested even if you start to think, oh, have just about got that technique.
And then there's going to be another scene that pops up or there's another person you interact with that you think, oh, okay, now I get to do something different.
So it constantly challenges you I think.
It is an exciting job.
It was the best job I've ever had, don't get me wrong.
But, you know, I think at the time for me, I couldn't deal with the the time and the requirements because I had a six month old at the time.
So that was the only reason really that I couldn't I'd like to think, pursue it.
And yet there's a changing landscape of forensics at the moment, but it's such an amazing job, I would think.
I think there's new challenges now, and I'm very interested in those new challenges.
So I'm looking to see what these challenges look like in reality and how that's actually working for practitioners.
I very much, I think I'll always have my research head on now that I've been working in academia, and I think that's a really interesting view to bring into crime scene investigation.
But as Selina says, the fundamental fact is every single day is different.
You meet everybody from every single walk of life you could imagine and some that you couldn't imagine.
You will encounter experiences that you didn't even know you could possibly do.
And then also the thing that I really love about it is it doesn't matter how much experience you have, you are experienced.
So I remember as a ten year experienced CSI,
never having been to a particular type of scene that our newest recruit had been to so I could go to them for advice.
And I think that is fantastic to say,
there is so many infinite number of experiences we can have in this role.
We can all appreciate each other and appreciate each other's experience and learn from each other.
And there's so much to learn.
I've been in forensics for over 20 years and I'm still learning every single day, and that's what excites me about being back
probably on the front line is learning more.
Can't stop learning about it.
It sounds incredibly rewarding.
And we can take a quick break.
If you're enjoying this episode of Life Solved, then why not
check out Who Polices the Police featuring Dr.
John Fox.
John looks at the vetting process of police forces across the UK and also who's in charge of holding officers to account.
Search for the episode whether you listen to podcasts.
And so back to the sort of the myths and misconceptions around CSI,
a lot of the stuff that we see, which is dramatised is from the U.S., I think it's fair to say we do have some shows here.
You mentioned Silent Witness.
There are quite a few police, famous police shows now as well.
I used to watch The Bill a lot.
I used to love The Bill.
But is there a difference between countries that people aren't necessarily aware of?
Do you find that when you chat to people about the role of a CSI, they say, oh, I know that this happens, but actually that's not the case in the UK.
But is the case somewhere else?
Yeah, I think our first year students, well the first lecture I have with them, I always do this sort of myth busting.
So what do you know about forensic science?
What do you know about crime scene investigation?
And one of the things that comes up every year is the role of the coroner,
because in the the shows sorry, from the USA, the coroner is essentially what we would call the forensic pathologist.
So the person that does the post-mortem or the autopsy in in America,
and often they come to the scene and no one's allowed to do anything with the body until the coroner has been and they examine the body at the scene, etc..
Here, that's a forensic pathologist.
And our coroner is a very different role and is a completely different person.
So the coroner does not come to the scene in the UK.
The forensic pathologist might and they undertake the post-mortem, not the coroner.
So we have a distinction in terms of wording, I think, and roles there.
That's the main thing that I pick up on the difference between shows in the countries, but there's differences in practice as well.
We know that from the research literature and from speaking to practitioners in other countries as well,
that we do have very different, not always very, but some different approaches to how we undertake these roles.
And also I think it's probably fair to say in other countries, the role of the CSI as a police officer, and I think that's something we need to bust as well.
In the UK.
You do not need to be a police officer first to become a CSI.
You get the job as a CSI and you're trained on the job.
In the US predominantly, you are a police officer, sworn police officer, and then you train to be a CSI.
And that's the case in many other countries.
Australia is the same, but it's moving.
I think there are some police staff CSI now.
I think it's moving towards that.
But yeah, I did a master's degree in forensic science a few years ago and I did a module in forensic biology with an American university
and they taught me about air drying swaps.
So we wet and dry, for example, dry bloodstains is our method for recovery, and then we freeze those swaps.
But in the US, or particularly where I, the state that I was being taught this module, they were teaching us to air dry.
And I spoke to the the lecturer and I said, oh, that's very, very different to what we do if we ever tried them
that would be an issue in terms of contamination and also related to how they were packaging and storing them.
And we had a really, really interesting conversation about it.
Well, thank you both so much for joining me today.
It's been a really interesting conversation and hopefully some people who have listened will walk away
and feel a little bit better informed about what CSI is and what your jobs are.
Because of TV and film dramas we've already got a picture of how CSI works and the terms used in forensics.
Hopefully in this episode we've corrected a few things and given an idea of how it works in reality.
If you'd like to listen to our full episode of Life Solved discussing the world of forensic science,
head to the University of Portsmouth website or download it on your favourite podcast app now.
You can click the link in the comments box below or head to port.ac.uk/research
to find out more about Zoe's work here at the University of Portsmouth.
Next time how seaweed is "kelping" to clean up our oceans.
I didn't write that.
See you then.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Criminology and Forensic Investigation degree.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Investigation in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Investigation with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
Can't find the answer to your questions about this course or anything else about undergraduate life?
Contact us .
Criminology is the study of crime and criminal justice, including its causes, responses and prevention.
Forensic studies is the study of forensic, crime scene and criminal investigation, including forensic evidence analysis and interpretation.
This Criminology and Forensic Investigation degree brings together these topics, providing an integrated understanding of criminal investigation with the application of forensic methods.
Because of ongoing funding pressures, criminal justice roles outside the usual policing and probation networks are expanding.
Populations are increasing, crime is not disappearing and society needs more support than ever.
This means the future demand for criminology and forensics graduates is likely to be high.
People who work in this area do so because they want to have a significant, positive impact on society.
Careers in this area are hugely rewarding, because you work with vulnerable people, victims of crime, and sometimes perpetrators of crime, helping get them back into society.
Every day is different.
Every crime scene is different.
As well as preparing you for employment in areas such as policing, probation, forensic investigation, intelligence or counter-fraud, this degree allows you to gain valuable transferable skills including research skills, written and oral communication skills, attention to detail and social policy knowledge that you can apply to many careers.
Keeping up to date with crime and forensic investigation in the media is good preparation for this course.
For example, watching crime, criminal justice and forensic documentaries gives you a realistic perspective of processes involved in this area, which you'll study in more detail on the course.
It's also a good idea to read a range of tabloid and broadsheet articles on crime, and related subjects.
As well as meeting the entry requirements, it's useful if you're inquisitive, hard working and have the ability to pay attention to detail.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-criminology-and-psychology:
Study criminology and psychology together for a competitive edge in careers working with offenders and victims.
Learn how and why people respond to crime and how to help.
M9C5,                      M9C6
This combined BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology degree gives you a deep understanding of criminal behaviour, for a competitive edge in your career.
You'll explore why people commit crimes, the psychological fallout, and how rehabilitation works.
Studying in one of the UK's largest criminology departments, your diverse options will also include specialist subjects such as forensic psychology.
Hear two of our expert Criminology team, Dr Craig Collie and Professor Becky Milne, explain why BSc Criminology and Psychology (formerly called Criminology with Psychology) is such a fascinating degree to study, from the interactive facilities to the placement opportunities.
Dr.
Craig Collie: Criminology with Psychology combines learning about the criminal justice system with getting inside the mind a little bit of people that commit crime.
Why do people behave in certain ways and think in certain ways, how does our environment affect how we behave?
Professor Becky Milne: Psychology is all about decision making, human interaction, looking at people who are more vulnerable, how best to interact with them within the justice system.
Craig Collie: We've got the wonderful Centre of Forensic Interviewing - large and small classroom facilities.
There's a mock courtroom.
Professor Becky Milne: We have psychologists, we have criminologists, we have lawyers, we have ex-police officers who are now retired.
Craig Collie: There are lots of career opportunities that flow from studying Criminology with Psychology.
Professor Becky Milne: So we have a partnership with Hampshire Police, but also police right across the country and across the globe.
There's also Home Office work, probation.
Craig Collie: It's also going to be useful if you're in a research setting, a courtroom setting and a support setting for other justice roles.
It's a really, really versatile thing to be able to do.
So in terms of placement opportunities, we've got a lot of opportunities that are with charitable organisations who often work with victims of crime and other serious offences.
One of the big things that you learn is research skills.
How do you actually find out about people that commit crime?
How can you help the wider psychological community, and those skills are put to use in placements.
So why would you come to study at Portsmouth?
It's a wonderful city.
Lots of links to the place in the city itself, it's a wonderful place to study.
Professor Becky Milne: There's lots going on.
There seems to be something for everyone, whether you were a student, you know, straight from school, but whether you perhaps you're a more mature student, there is great opportunities.
Craig Collie: We've just a wonderful team.
Very, very experienced team, is one of the biggest criminology provisions in the country.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology.
This is where researchers explore and develop new techniques.
Professionals train in interviewing and investigation.
And you’ll develop specialist skills.
Use immersive VR technologies to explore new ways of learning about criminal activities – from tracking eye movement to identifying unconscious behaviour.
Explore VR Lab
Studying in one of the UK’s largest criminology departments offered me a range of specialist subjects and modules that other universities had not offered.
I achieved First Class Honours, which later granted me the position of Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner within Oxford Health.
Megan Cato, BSc (Hons) Criminology with Psychology
By studying aspects of two different but related disciplines – psychology and criminology – you’ll open yourself to a wide range of career options.
You’ll be a natural fit for roles relating to work with offenders or victims of crime.
Both are areas where there will likely always be a demand for skilled professionals.
The psychology aspects of your studies will broaden your career options.
Your understanding of the human mind and behaviour could lead you to specialist jobs, such as forensic psychology (with further training).
Knowledge of psychology can also be an asset in a diverse range of roles outside of criminal justice - from market research to human resources.
With transferable skills in communications, critical thinking and analysis on your CV, you’ll be a very employable graduate.
Organisations you could work for include:
Our criminology and psychology graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
I volunteer for the Police and Crime Commissioner, as the leader of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team in the Youth Commission, and have investigated crime rates in Portsmouth by working with the City Council.
Eleonora Chioatto, BSc (Hons) Criminology with Psychology
After your second or third year of study, you can choose to do a paid work placement year in a criminal justice organisation, either in the UK or overseas.
The best parts about undertaking a placement were being able to apply my learning in a professional environment, being able to work with those within the field I aspired to be in upon finishing my degree, and having the chance to gain more insight.
I returned to University with more experience, motivation to complete my degree and gained more understanding within my course.
Marcia Tanyanyiwa, Criminology with Psychology student
Previous criminology and psychology placement destinations have included:
You’ll look at a range of topics that demonstrate the links between social interactions and how we behave, such as how group pressures and culture influence everything from altruism to aggression.
Applying concepts from social ‘influencing’ to conflict resolution, you’ll learn how to recognise social psychology in action in our everyday lives.
You'll analyse topics such as moral development, cognitive development, personality and social emotional development.
Exploring different research methodologies from around the world, you'll learn how insights from developmental psychology inform our perspectives on human behaviour.
By examining and discussing the key debates, you'll develop your understanding of the big issues relating to the psychology of policing, investigation, the courtroom process and correctional psychology.
You’ll explore how to interpret specialist assessments and risk assessment tools in order to inform rehabilitation plans, sensitively evaluating custody environments that should balance care and control.
Thinking about high-risk offenders with complex mental health conditions and personality disorders, you’ll develop your own perspectives on how to ensure detainee welfare while also protecting the public.
You'll explore explanatory theories alongside independent, critical thinking and information.
You’ll learn how psychological knowledge can be used to create impactful interventions for ex-offenders, helping them to leave their criminal lifestyles behind.
You'll discover how criminals laundering dirty money make their finances look clean, and examine the internal prevention systems organisations have in place against money laundering.
You'll get to grips with the key concepts and frameworks, and learn how to apply legal and regulatory knowledge to case studies.
The lecturers have a wealth of experience and knowledge in both areas of study.
Vanessa Williams, BSc Hons Criminology with Psychology student
Dion.Glass@port.ac.uk
Listen to Professor Becky Milne, lecturer on BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology, explain how the stress and pace of major incidents such as terrorism, crime or accidents, can influence the behaviour and memories of the people who witness them, and how forensic psychology can help.
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BSc Hons Criminology and Psychology degree.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-sociology:
Be part of critical debates on social issues and inequalities as they vary around the world on this BSc (Hons) Sociology degree, from gender and sexuality, and race and racism, to family and relationships, human emotions, and celebrity.
Customise your studies with your choice of specialist subjects and graduate with transferable skills suited to a wide range of careers.
L300,                      L302
Understand how and why society is changing on this BSc (Hons) Sociology degree course.
Step into critical debates on social issues and inequalities as they vary around the world, including gender and sexuality, race and racism, nationalism and human emotions.
Make sense of what’s going on, why it’s happening, and what we can do about it.
On this BSc (Hons) Sociology degree, you’ll learn classical sociological theories and how to apply them to the topics that most inspire you.
You'll be taught and supported by the same expert staff and active researchers who introduce you to ideas and concepts in lectures, and encouraged to discuss these with them in more depth alongside other students.
As you work towards your choice of final research project, you'll pick subjects you want to explore further from a wide range of specialist subjects, such as social justice, wellbeing and happiness, and the sociology of education.
You'll graduate with transferable skills sought after by employers across many sectors, as well as the confidence, knowledge and methods to enact positive change within a broad range of careers.
Hear our students and lecturers explain the benefits of studying a sociology course with us.
Chloe: I think I wanted to study sociology because it's got so many different components that you can't find it not interesting.
Dr Joseph Burridge: We offer three courses: Sociology, Sociology with Psychology and Sociology with Criminology.
Dr Rusten Menard: On our sociology courses, we offer a broad range of topics.
Joseph: Social inequalities and injustices, gender and sexuality, about race and racism, about nationalism, about the emotions, about food.
It's a very versatile course.
Abby: At uni, it's interesting because everybody comes from a range of different places.
You kind of learn about things that can relate to your life and people in your classes lives.
Rusten: It makes me feel amazing that students can connect their everyday experiences to these much larger topics that we're all dealing with on an everyday basis, even though we don't know that we are.
Joseph: There's a range of reasons that students will study the course, but I think that the most important one is that they're interested in understanding society and also wanting to change it.
Chloe: We’ll be sat in the seminar and everyone from different corners of the room is bringing in their own opinion.
Rusten: There are so many different kinds of jobs that our students go into, such as HR, marketing, the
Abby: charities sector, non-government organisations,
Asan: a higher education lecturer, a social researcher.
Chloe: I went and did a month out in Tanzania and I was working in a school there and I got picked to do that because I did sociology.
I chose to study at the University of Portsmouth because I just love the city as a whole.
Asan: It's a beautiful city.
There’s lots to do here.
There's always somewhere I could go.
Chloe: It's great that you can have that city environment with the kind of fast pace of life but you can walk 15 minutes up the road and be on a beach, relaxing, having an ice cream.
Asan: All the lecturers, the staff, they're very knowledgeable.
You can go to them for anything.
You can tell when your lecturer is really excited about the topic and that makes you feel more excited about the topic too.
Joseph: The thing I enjoy most, I think is the student journey.
Meeting them on that very first day, they're fresh to the institution and then seeing them develop over the three or four years that they're here and ultimately seeing them graduate and, you know, having them come back and tell us how they're getting on and what they're doing.
That's one of the most rewarding parts of it.
I love studying sociology at Portsmouth because there is such a large variety of modules available and they are taught by real experts of those fields who never shy away from continuing any discussion with students outside of lectures.
Maya Kirwin, BSc (Hons) Sociology
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology.
Samantha shares her journey, from studying Sociology at Portsmouth to becoming an employment advisor and making a tangible difference in peoples' lives.
Samantha: My name is Samantha Byrne and I am an Employment Advisor at Maximus UK.
Before going to university, I really wasn't a big fan of education.
I didn't really get on at school or at college and then I started studying sociology at college and I discovered something I really enjoyed.
I discovered feminism and that kind of led to my journey of going to Portsmouth.
I think the thing that stood out the most for me at the University of Portsmouth was the lecturers.
The effort they put in and the support they gave was genuinely second to none.
I don't think I would have achieved what I did without their support and them pushing me and telling me and affirming me that I could do what I managed to do.
I wouldn't have been able to see things probably as well beyond my own perspective if I didn't learn about other people's lived experiences and how they come into play in sociology.
I wasn't originally going down this career path when I left university.
I went to see a careers adviser and he gave me some skills assessments to do.
The top result on all of them was an employment adviser and about three to four months later I got my first employment adviser role and I've been doing it for about four years now.
I think my proudest moment is recently, I had a woman on my caseload.
She's a single mother and has had some really difficult times in her life and she got offered a job.
She realised she wasn't able to do the work because she couldn't afford the childcare.
Recently we were able to fund two thousand pounds worth of childcare for her so she can start work in August.
I think in this job, that's probably the most proud I've been, to be able to be part of that.
I am not saying this to exaggerate but I genuinely don't think I would be where I am today without the University of Portsmouth.
I think if I hadn't have gone to university, I think I would have accepted the bare minimum.
I would have just not pushed myself, not really thought I could achieve much.
It really did change where everything in my life has gone.
Studying sociology encourages you to engage critically with the world around you, ask questions about the social world and challenge things we often take for granted.
You'll develop the ability to be analytical, consider different perspectives and communicate your ideas effectively.
These are transferable skills that are valuable to any employer, which means you'll have lots of career options when you graduate.
You could also continue your studies to a PhD or other postgraduate qualification, following in the footsteps of your lecturers.
Many of our sociology graduates go into people-focused roles, or in roles that allow them to do research, shape social policies or bring about social change.
Roles our graduates have gone on to include:
Our graduates have worked for companies such as:
Taking an optional placement year after your second or third year of study will give you the experience you need to increase your chances of landing your perfect role.
You'll get valuable work experience and the chance to grow your professional network and enhance your CV.
Our students also regularly work on research projects for the local community.
Previous students have taken placement roles at organisations including:
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology
You’ll critique contemporary topics and debates to understand how sociologists make sense of the social world in radically different ways than common assumptions.
As well as reviewing current research and theories, you’ll gain crucial skills you’ll need to succeed in your degree and become an independent, creative thinker.
You'll examine a range of films and documentaries to reveal what they say about key social theories and the way societies are constructed.
We'll watch films and documentaries that each reflect a specific social theme and use them to think critically about how these themes affect society today.
You'll also explore how visual media, like films and documentaries, shapes the way people think and affects the social policies that govern our lives.
You'll spend most of your time learning how to analyse data for your research, looking at both quantitative and qualitative methods, and how to examine data ethically.
You'll learn about ways of collecting data, such as surveying, interviewing and observation, before drawing conclusions and presenting what you've learned.
You'll learn how to create clear research plans that investigate real-world issues, and how research can be used to make positive changes in business, government, advocacy or academia.
On this module, you’ll investigate the structures of power, privilege and inequality that shape society.
You’ll examine intersectional perspectives on how gender, race, class and other categories intertwine to limit opportunities – discussing urgent issues like educational outcomes, discrimination, welfare failures and more.
You'll also explore ideas that challenge the status quo and innovative policies aimed at balancing the scales.
With sociological research as your guide, you'll tackle thought-provoking questions head on: What barriers do people face at school, work and beyond?
How do setbacks compound over a lifetime?
And what hope exists for creating a truly just world?
You'll examine traditional and modern social theories in relation to your own personal experiences and current events happening in society today.
Get to grips with the big ideas in social theory and how they can be used to understand modernisation, power structures, social justice and the human condition.
As you learn, you'll also develop skills in critical analysis, conceptual thinking and effective communication.
You'll work as part of a small group with your fellow students, choosing a sociology problem to research and designing a project to investigate it.
You'll work together to create research strategies, collect and analyse data, and share findings - taking your project from idea to completion.
Your research project will help you gain skills in working with others and progressing your work through peer feedback.
You'll also learn how sociological research evidence is created and used for different purposes.
You'll look at ideas on industrial employment from key figures in history such as Karl Marx, Émile Durkheim and Max Weber, considering how these hold up against today's modern workplaces and economies.
You'll study the ways that workers themselves have shaped employment through fighting and negotiating for their rights.
Through class discussions and activities, you'll also develop an understanding of modern sociological ideas about the changing divisions of work, labour and employment, such as Emotional and Aesthetic work.
By the end of the module, you'll be able to explain complex ideas about shifting workplace dynamics and social divisions, and the evolving nature of employment in our rapidly changing world.
You'll explore this question on this module, looking at the uncertainties of our world and how these risks impact our everyday lives.
Examine how social institutions shape people's perceptions of risk and how aspects of our own identities, such as class and gender, affect the way we approach risk as individuals.
You'll also have the chance to investigate risk and society in relation to a topic you're most interested in, for example, health, crime or technology.
On this module, you’ll critically analyse the complex economic, political, cultural and environmental impacts of consumption, thinking creatively about alternatives and solutions to the many controversies surrounding consumerism today.
By evaluating theories and research on consumerism, advertising, fashion, credit, debt and more, you’ll develop an insightful understanding of the profound consequences of our consumer lifestyles.
You’ll explore sociological perspectives on the emotional experience, looking at how factors like gender and culture make a difference.
You’ll consider the growth of therapy and self-help culture and the complex nature of distinct emotions like anger, fear and love.
You’ll evaluate debates around emotional labour in service sector jobs and the gendering of emotion management in family life.
Working in small groups and with real-world case studies, you’ll learn how to apply academic concepts to our emotional lives.
Considering diverse theories from sociology, feminist and queer studies, you'll evaluate everyday 'common sense' ideas alongside norms that police our bodies and behaviours.
You'll examine how today's societal structures continue to maintain inequality, building your ability to question assumptions, identify bias and pursue equity across intersections of race, age, class and more.
On this module, you'll explore the surprising interconnections between generations, personal relationships, life stages and the changing meaning of a 'career'.
Take a look at our other sociology courses to compare your options.
If you want to explore how human relationships and social structures influence behaviour and discover how power dynamics and inequalities create crime, take a look at our Sociology with Criminology degree .
If you want to study specialist areas of sociological study while developing the knowledge and skills to expertly dissect the media, take a look at our Sociology with Media Studies degree .
I have been able to study matters that are really interesting and relevant to contemporary society.
My degree has enabled me to gain many skills that I am now transferring to my new job and I have also made some friends for life.
I would definitely encourage people to come to the University of Portsmouth, it is a fantastic place to study!
Chloe Plummer, BSc (Hons) Sociology student
Coursework typically makes up around 100% of your final mark.
Laura.Hyman@port.ac.uk
Rosanna.Marvell@port.ac.uk
Charlotte.Morris@port.ac.uk
Professor of Sociology
Simon.Stewart@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Sociology degree.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.
They're interested in social structures and institutions, how these shape the lives and life chances of groups and individuals, and how ‘common sense’ or individualised explanations are insufficient to understand social phenomena.
As a result, sociologists often seek to bring about social change that moves in the direction of decreasing inequality and increasing social justice.
Employers recognise the valuable transferable skills – such as critical thinking, communication and research skills – that sociology graduates gain at university.
This means future demand is likely to be high for sociology graduates.
Our sociology graduates go into a diverse range of occupations including people-focused roles (such as teaching or social work), research and policy roles (in local and central government or the voluntary sector) or management roles.
As well as meeting the course entry requirements, you need to be interested in how society is organised and how social inequality is produced.
You should be fascinated by – but suspicious of – everything.
You don't need a sociology qualification or background to join us.
The first year of the course is a full introduction to studying sociology at university level and provides a comprehensive overview on topics such as social inequalities, sociological theories and research methods.
If you'd like to do some background reading before you begin the course, these core texts are useful:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-sociology-with-criminology:
Discover how human relationships and society influence our behaviour.
Find out why power dynamics and inequalities create crime.
Explore topics from gender to happiness.
LM40,                      LM41
People are not born criminals.
On this course, you’ll explore sociology, crime and how human relationships and social structures influence behaviour.
You’ll discover how power dynamics and inequalities create crime.
And you’ll see people who break and enforce the law in a new light.
With many diverse options to choose from, you can tailor this BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology degree around topics that fascinate you – from identity issues, such as race and sexuality, to issues of experience, such as happiness, gang crime or serial killing.
Modules are taught by experts who draw directly from their research activity – to give you the latest knowledge in the field.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology.
Choosing to study sociology and criminology together opens up a wide range of potential careers, both in and out of the criminal justice system.
Whether you’re attracted to careers that involve working closely with other people, or roles that call for rigorous and structured thinking, you’ll be well prepared.
This is because you’ll graduate from this sociology and criminology degree with a set of skills that are transferable to all kinds of professions.
Those skills include:
For proof that a wide range of employers value these skills, look at the diversity of roles our recent graduates have taken on.
They include: police officer, recruitment consultant, litigation paralegal, digital forensics assistant and victim support caseworker.
You’ll graduate ready to pursue a career or further training in areas such as:
You could also progress into research-related jobs or pursue further research and study at postgraduate level.
Job roles you could take on include:
We’ll help you secure a work placement that fits your aspirations – whatever they might be.
For example, a recent student joined an anti-poaching operation in South Africa.
You can also spend this year studying overseas at one of our partner universities in Europe.
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology
Teaching methods on this sociology and criminology course include:
There's an emphasis on participation on this course, you'll take part in group debates and discussions, and gain experience in research and interviewing techniques.
George.Ackers@port.ac.uk
Patricia.Gilbert@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your Sociology with Criminology degree.
In your first year, you’ll be in timetabled teaching activities such as lectures, seminars and tutorials for about 10 hours a week.
You may occasionally need to go to University and course events in the evenings.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Criminology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-sociology-with-media-studies:
Explore what drives social trends and how the media shapes our society on this Sociology with Media Studies degree course.
The media plays a big part in shaping society.
If you want to explore what drives social trends and how the media shapes our society, this course is for you.
You’ll explore pressing contemporary social issues and get an understanding of specialist areas of sociological study, while developing the knowledge and skills to expertly dissect the media.
When you complete this course you'll also be primed for a career in anything from health and social care to the creative industries.
To do these degrees, you need to apply for the BSc (Hons) Sociology or the BSc Sociology with Foundation Year course.
You’ll study Sociology in depth and add Media Studies as a complementary subject later.
You’ll graduate with a BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies degree when you finish the course.
These are the entry requirements for the BSc (Hons) Sociology and BSc (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year courses.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies.
When you complete this degree course, our Careers and Employability team can work with you to find the employment that you need to kick-start your career.
You'll have the knowledge and skills to pursue a career or further training in areas such as:
Some of our alumni have gone on to work for big names such as the BBC, Warner Bros and Universal Pictures International.
You could also continue your studies at postgraduate level or set up a business with help and support from the University
To give you the best chance of securing the ideal job when you graduate, our Careers and Employability service can help you find relevant work experience during your course.
In your placement year, you can also set up a business on your own or with other students.
You’ll get mentoring and support throughout the year
The way you’re assessed will depend on the modules you select throughout your course.
Here's an example from a previous year of how students on this course were typically assessed:
Subject Area Lead in Sociology
Rusten.Menard@port.ac.uk
You need to choose BSc (Hons) Sociology or BSc (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year when you apply for these courses, because they are ‘pathway’ courses.
This is where you study Sociology in depth and add Media Studies as a complementary subject later.
You’ll then graduate with a BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies degree when you complete the course.
You’ll then graduate with a BSc (Hons) Sociology degree when you complete the course.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Media Studies with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-sociology-with-psychology:
Gain a deep understanding of the workings and interactions of human behaviour, culture and society.
Get a solid foundation for moving into people-focused careers or further training.
L3C8,                      L4C8
Prepare to lead the world into a more positive future.
Human thought and behaviour shape our society, which in turn shapes our experience as global citizens.
Take a sociological and social psychological approach to the most pressing social issues of our time, from global economic inequality and the migrant crisis to world hunger, climate change and gender equality - and see how our actions interact with and influence social justice and wellbeing in the world.
While developing your sociological imagination, you'll also study social psychological concepts such as prosocial behaviour, intergroup dynamics and social influence.
On this BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology degree, you'll conduct your own research into societal issues that matter most to you, developing the skills to influence positive change such as critical thinking, leading on research projects, analysing data and communicating proposals for change effectively.
The psychological approach on this course is designed to enhance your understanding of sociology beyond sociological theory – it doesn't offer British Psychological Society accreditation (BPS) but strongly prepares you for further study or training related to the psychological and social sciences.
I have taken on volunteering through the University's careers service to help build up my CV and due to me looking into a Social Work Masters.
My lecturers, Rusten and Sue, really helped me to gain those opportunities.
Castiel Martin, BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology with Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology.
You may need to have studied specific subjects – find full entry requirements and other qualifications we accept
The course provides a solid foundation for moving into a variety of people-focused careers, from community development and careers advice, to teaching and charity work.
You'll have the communication, research, critical thinking and analysis skills employers look for to lead on complex projects, convert report findings into manageable insights and manage people with an understanding of how the mind works.
After the course you could also continue your studies to a PhD or other postgraduate qualification, following in the footsteps of your lecturers.
From Portsmouth, I went straight into employment with my current employer.
I have met several people who also went to Portsmouth and they have all said what a good practical course it is.
I have managed to quickly progress through the business which was because of the good footing Portsmouth University gave me.
Leah Harvey, BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology
Roles you could go onto include:
Graduates from our sociology courses have worked for companies such as:
Previous students have taken placements roles at organisations including:
When you finish your foundation year successfully, you get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology
You'll explore key psychological theories like behaviourism, psychodynamics and humanism, evaluating how these theories help explain social issues and problems.
You'll also learn to communicate core concepts clearly to non-psychologists, develop analytical skills to recognise psychological theories in action and examine research methodologies.
You'll explore established theories explaining phenomena like conformity, leadership and prejudice from multiple contextual lenses.
Moving between the societal and individual levels, you'll discover how people both shape and are shaped by the world around them.
Move beyond traditional psychology to see how people actively 'do' critical processes like prejudice, motivation and identity through words.
You'll compare perspectives from cognitive, social and discursive psychology to build a rounded understanding of what drives human behaviour.
With real-world texts and conversations, you'll apply new analytical concepts to reveal the discursive patterns lurking under the surface.
Come ready to critically evaluate dominant theories and form your own conclusions on the role of talk and text in society.
Building on what you've learned about social influence and group dynamics, you'll discuss the potential and challenges of co-produced research using arts-based techniques, while connecting them to conceptual, empirical and methodological tools in psychology.
You'll identify similarities and differences in creative approaches, evaluate their application to research, select analysis methods supporting theory-building, and carry out quality research reporting.
You'll draw on the principles of community psychology in a local and global context to prepare for action in community settings.
You'll work with real-life case studies of community projects in the voluntary and statutory sectors, underscoring the challenges of translating psychological concepts such as social influence into everyday hands-on practice.
The modules are set up to relate to real people in real-life situations at the same time as looking at the wider theories, and the lecturers are great at being approachable as part of their teaching.
Natasha Gohel, BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology student
If you want to build a solid foundation in classic sociological theories, learn how to apply them to produce social change and develop competent research skills, take a look at our Sociology degree .
There's an emphasis on participation with lots of group debates and discussions.
You'll also take control of your own learning by doing research, surveys and interviews.
Interim Head of School
Joseph.Burridge@port.ac.uk
Katherine.Munden@port.ac.uk
Associate Dean (Global Engagement)
Jacqueline.Priego@port.ac.uk
We recommend you spend at least 35 hours a week studying for your BSc Hons Sociology with Psychology degree.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Sociology with Psychology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-sport-management:
N882,                      N885
Devise marketing campaigns for top sports brands.
Manage community schemes that inspire the next generation to love sport.
Organise sponsorship strategies for international sporting events.
On this BSc (Hons) Sport Management degree, you'll study sport in a global context and turn your passion for sport into a career.
Read more about our amazing sports science research
This course is in the top 10 for Tourism, Transport, Travel and Heritage Studies in the Complete University Guide League Tables 2022.
I love the way my course holds a sense of togetherness amongst the students and the faculty.
It has truly been an experience of a lifetime!
Mishgahn Omer, BSc (Hons) Sport Management
Find out more about our BSc (Hons) Sport Management degree course, including the placement and career opportunities that will help you turn your passion for sport into a career.
Kieren McEwan: Sports management at the University of Portsmouth is quite an all encompassing course, and it's been specifically designed to fit with the needs of industry.
They can be certain that the course is fit for purpose in terms of knowledge, skills, techniques and all the soft business skills which will allow you to flourish out in industry.
At the University of Portsmouth, we have lots of facilities which are geared towards improving and enhancing your educational experience.
We have a number of placement opportunities.
First of all, we have an optional sandwich here.
Now the sandwich here sits either between year two and year three or there is an option to take the sandwich year after your final year of study.
It enhances the opportunities for people to have a really strong career after graduation.
In the past, we've gone to Barcelona and we've looked at the Olympic facilities.
It's invaluable for the students and brings the learning to life.
There's lots of opportunities and lots of scope to take your career in a number of different directions.
That could be teaching, sports marketing, strategic planning in a national governing body, but also into other areas of industry where the skills and knowledge that you would develop will be highly prized.
I always say that Portsmouth is a wonderful place to be a student.
I would say that because I'm a graduate here.
I make my life here because I enjoy the city so much.
It's an incredibly welcoming city, and the university itself has the potential to offer you a brilliant experience in terms of your learning.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer BSc (Hons) Sport Management with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on BSc (Hons) Sport Management.
On this course, you'll explore sport’s role in society and how sports management and development can make sport accessible to all, yet the business skills you'll gain will prepare you for a wide range of careers.
When you graduate, you'll be ready to apply corporate, management, financial and marketing knowledge to an exciting career within the sports industry, or any other sector that interests you.
90% of our graduates find work within a year of completing this course, so you can feel confident that what you learn will set you up for the world of work.
Others have entered more diverse areas of employment, such as sports law, local government, strategic leadership, consultancy and the charity sector.
You'll have the chance to work with our local community to encourage cultural and social development through sports coaching and volunteering.
Build invaluable experience within institutions such as clubs, schools and charities.
Learn more
Either before or following your third year, you can opt for a work placement year to gain valuable longer-term work experience in the industry.
Placements give you the opportunity to apply what you've learnt so far in a real workplace, boosting your employability and making you attractive to employers after graduation.
You can work for a company or organisation here in the UK or overseas – some of our graduates have gone as far afield as Mwanza in Tanzania.
Or, you could go independent by setting up and running your own business with other students.
Whichever route you choose, you'll receive support and guidance.
Our specialist team of Science and Health Careers advisors can help you with finding a work placement and improving your employability skills.
They'll provide you with a database of placement vacancies, support with your job search – including help with applications and interviews – and support throughout your placement year.
Previous students have taken placement roles such as:
They've completed placements at organisations including:
You’ll have the chance to do an overseas field trip to experience sports management in other communities and cultures.
Previous students have travelled to Barcelona to carry out their own research projects, on areas including urban sport, Olympic legacy, and the impact of tourism and city infrastructure.
You'll also have the option to study abroad for a year in Europe, South Asia, Canada or North America.
This is a fantastic opportunity to explore a new destination and study as an international student at a partner university in another part of the world.
Many of our students describe their time spent studying abroad as truly unforgettable, as well as an excellent way to stand out to future employers.
My time on a study abroad scheme with Brock University in Canada was incredible.
I know this term gets thrown around quite a lot but it’s 100% true for me: this was a life changing opportunity.
Eddie Koppoe, BSc (Hons) Sports Management and Development
Students will have the opportunity to explore the diverse range of developmental goals sport has been connected with both in the UK and more broadly around the world.
Further, case studies of 'real life' examples of sport development in action will be examined and critically analysed in terms of the purpose, rationale and relative success of the stated intervention using theory, literature and current research to justify their positions.
Finally, students will have the opportunity to put their learning into practice by using the insights they have gleaned from their critical analyses to develop a 'Sport for Development' intervention based on a number of scenarios provided to them.
We'll help you find and secure an exciting study exchange programme where you'll develop skills in autonomy, accountability, language, interpersonal communication, time management and planning, and assessment and analysis.
As you manage and complete your tasks abroad, you'll demonstrate a strong level of skill, initiative, independence and performance.
You'll return able to evaluate how study placement activities relate to your studies and broader global contexts, presenting a critical evaluation of your professional development.
Enrich your intercultural awareness and language skills through a study abroad sandwich year or accelerate your employability through an immersive year-long work placement.
With support identifying a study exchange programme or placement opportunity, you'll take part in overseas study or a work placement and develop skills in autonomy, accountability, language, interpersonal communication, time management, planning, assessment and analysis – while considering the impact of your actions.
As you study abroad or complete your tasks in the workplace, you'll demonstrate a strong level of skill, initiative, independence and performance.
You'll return able to evaluate how study or work placement activities relate to your studies and broader global contexts, presenting a critical evaluation of your professional development.
This is a Connected Degree
Take it after your 2nd year, before returning to finish your studies.
We work closely with local partners, such as the Portsmouth School Sport Partnership and Portsmouth City Council Leisure Services, to make sure what you learn on the course is current and relevant.
Mike.Rayner@port.ac.uk
To start BSc (Hons) Sport Management in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start BSc (Hons) Sport Management with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law:
Use our replica courtroom and community law clinic to prepare for you career in law as barrister, solicitor, or something else.
M100,                      M105
Develop your understanding of UK law and the legal system with our LLB (Hons) Law degree.
You’ll explore the foundations of law as a discipline, build key legal skills such as client interviewing and negotiation, and gain a wide but detailed knowledge of UK law topics.
You’ll take part in live community projects to apply your learning as you study, and have the chance to practise your legal skills in our replica courtroom — where you’ll experience what advocacy can be like in a real crown court, with hidden recording equipment so you can review your performance afterwards.
If you take a paid industry placement after your second or third year, you’ll spend a year working in the legal profession or a quasi-legal environment, such as the Bank of England.
This experience, alongside department insight days with Law firms and University networking events with guest speakers, means you’ll finish your course with connections in the legal industry.
With transferable skills and practical work experience that you can apply to multiple sectors, you’ll graduate ready to enter a range of jobs with your law degree.
The route to qualifying as a solicitor has changed for new applicants.
If you accept an offer on this course after 21 September 2021 you'll need to take the new Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE) after you graduate to qualify as a solicitor.
The content and mode of assessment of many of our modules provide a good foundation for further specific SQE preparation.
If you completed or started this course, accepted an offer of a place, or paid a non-refundable deposit (international students only) before 21 September 2021 (inclusive) you can choose to take either the new SQE or the Legal Practice Course (LPC) after graduation.
Volunteer in our Legal Advice Clinic where you can help Portsmouth residents with their real legal problems, such as consumer or employment issues.
Watch this short video to find out how it works and what students think of the experience.
Gemma Hargrave (tutor):
The legal advice clinic is a live clinic.
We have real life clients coming in.
They ask us questions about any area of law.
We have students who are from level six at the university who come in and work in the clinic.
They do it as part of a module called the Law and Practise Module.
Rather than doing a dissertation and writing 10000 words, they come into the clinic every week and work with clients to work out their problems.
Callum Goddard (student):
So I chose to take part in the legal clinic for a number of reasons, really, having gone through a sort of assessment process with a law firm, I realised in myself that I sort of had a lack of examples to draw on in terms of how I can demonstrate my competencies to future employers.
So for me, it was really beneficial to get some proper legal experience.
Gemma Hargrave:
So, the student role at the clinic is as a legal advisor.
They will see the client, they will gather information from the client and then they will go away and research the problem.
Jack Macfarlane (student):
What I gained from taking part in the legal advice clinic was very much the interpersonal skills that I developed from speaking with everyday people that had everyday issues.
The legal advice clinic benefits students in their further studies and future careers because it gives them the opportunity to have real life experience of the law, but it lets them build on those skills that they've got, so skills that they will have to take into the workplace: communication skills, organisation skills, they'll know how to deal with a difficult client.
These are all skills, whether they go into the law or not, that will really help them in their future careers.
Katie Yeoman (client):
The legal advice clinic has helped me on mainly discrimination law.
Because I'm transgender, I face discrimination and I've taken action and they've helped me sort things out.
Working with the students, they've responded really well, and if they didn't know what the answer was, they've gone away and they've either emailed me or phoned me.
So the students have been really good.
Callum Goddard:
In terms of how the legal clinic has helped me and my future role now, I think the clinic was really great at building those core skills of a lawyer: conducting interviews, taking the time to research matters and then also having the confidence to deliver the legal outcomes.
The clinic is unmatched really for how it can develop you in those areas.
I'm incredibly proud of what the students have achieved over the years.
We've written multiple witness statements for some clients that have enabled them to be able to keep contact with their children in the future.
We have had one case where students were able to prevent, on the day, an illegal eviction of a client who would be homeless without that help.
The students have been able to take what they've learnt in the clinic and then make a real impact in the community.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer LLB (Hons) Law with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on LLB (Hons) Law.
As well as meeting the entry requirements for this course, we're looking for people who have good reading and writing skills and who are curious about the world.
You do not have to be a confident speaker or presenter to get a place on this degree; we'll help you develop those skills throughout the course.
The University is known for its Gold teaching standard.
After completing my undergraduate here, I can confirm that the quality of teaching, support and guidance has been beyond my expectations.
Shashi Kaur, LLB Law Graduate
Law is an incredibly flexible degree.
If you don't believe us, take a look at our blog about the 7 reasons to study law .
When you graduate you'll be ready to take your next step to train as a solicitor, a barrister or a Chartered Legal Executive.
It's worth noting that Chartered Legal Executives can now become judges, coroners, advocates and partners in law firms.
Some of our graduates go on to secure training contracts, but others choose to go into different professions.
Law degrees are in the top 10 degrees for employability, as you'll graduate with a wide range of transferable skills that will make you very employable across a range of other sectors.
Doing a law degree gives you a wide range of career options.
company secretary
Other graduates have continued their studies at postgraduate level or set up successful businesses with help and support from the University .
Work with one of our partners to apply your learning by giving them legal advice.
Partners have included the British Red Cross and Citizens Advice.
Learn more about the community lawyer module
Find out what you can do when you study law at university.
13 January 2022
6 min read
University of Portsmouth alumna April Phillips graduated in 2018 with a Law degree .
She is now a Corporate Associate at Shoosmiths.
April explains how the Faculty of Business and Law gave her key insights into London city firms, highlighted opportunities and helped her successfully apply for a training contract.
My name is April Phillips and I'm a trainee solicitor at Shoosmiths.
I'd enjoyed law when I was at college and wanted to do something that I would be interested in.
I knew that law would be quite a broad ranging topic and it would open up a lot of opportunities post-university.
While I was at the University of Portsmouth, I decided to explore different avenues to try and figure out what I wanted to do post-university, and as part of that I found that I really enjoyed the system aspect of it, so I decided to explore that further, which meant I then decided to apply for a training contract.
A number of opportunities were highlighted to me by lecturers, including the City Solicitors Horizons programme, which was a programme based in London, which looked at city firms and gave some insight into those which I otherwise wouldn't have had.
Going into law, it's a competitive field and I needed to get as much experience as I could to demonstrate that I could do the job and would stand out against other candidates from other universities.
I probably wouldn't have been able to make that decision without that experience.
My time at the University of Portsmouth changed me in terms of my confidence and my ultimate path.
It gave me the chance to explore that and that confidence grew as a result and I think I'm more of a well-rounded human being now, I like to think.
I've been back a couple of times, done a couple of different events.
It's quite nice to go back and hopefully reassure people that it's not as scary as you think and that making those choices and experiencing things while you're at university, that time is really valuable and can change your path.
It's really motivating and it's nice to recognise how I've got here and the success that I've had and pass that on to hopefully see more junior lawyers coming through from Portsmouth.
Sion graduated in 2015 with a Law degree from the University of Portsmouth.
He is now a Recruitment Business Partner at Howden Group Holdings.
Find out what Sion’s role entails and how he’s applying the skills he learned during his time at uni.
My name is Sion Evans and I'm a Recruitment Business Partner.
I think ever since I was a kid, the plan was to go and be a lawyer.
The reason that I chose to go and domy law degree over at the University of Portsmouth was that I love the city, I loved the course itself.
There were a lot of things that actually were going to give me a lot more than what I would get elsewhere - a lot of the commercial thinking.
A lot of the commercial mentality that you get at the University of Portsmouth was really key for me and also the courtroom.
For me, advocacy was just a huge part of what I wanted to do.
You are encouraged to do more.
As much as your law degree is really important, the rest of it is also just as important.
Coming out with the commercial awareness and the commercial mentality that you get from the University of Portsmouth was key.
Going down the legal route wasn't where my calling was.
I'd always thought it was and it was hard to say that to myself and to say, actually, it is not right for me.
But having that knowledge and having the experiences that I had had at the University of Portsmouth, so whether that be the being head of the law society or whether that be being part of rowing societies, or even just sort of moving away from home and living somewhere else, that gave me the confidence and the ability to go out and actually to say to myself, this isn't what I want to do, but also to then be able to go into the world of work and say, I want to go and do this and I want to look at other options and I think my experience is going to be valuable to what you're doing.
Walking across London Bridge to go to my office is a huge thing for me.
It's something which I'm immensely proud of.
This is the dream of coming up and working in London, being able to look out the window and seeing the Shard and seeing Tower Bridge and The Gherkin and Canary Wharf and all of these sorts of things.
For me, that was a huge, huge thing.
I'm immensely proud of that, really, really proud of that.
You can boost your employability even more by taking an optional paid placement after your second or third year of study.
Whatever your career ambitions, our placements team will be there to help and guide you and you'll maintain contact with your tutors throughout the year.
You could also choose to set up your own business with support from us.
My placement has left a huge impression on me, for the best and for that, I am truly grateful for the opportunity, exposure and chance to undertake my internship at such a great firm.
Jack Kelly, Placement student at Foot Anstey, LLB (Hons) Law
During my time with Arcadis, I have had the pleasure working within both the Commercial Operations and Project Delivery & Performance sides of my team — and have learned a great deal from both.
Jessica Murfitt, LLB (Hons) Law
Learn more about our foundation years with ICP
You'll learn to identify and evaluate different types of constitutions, learn the structure of the UK government and institutions, and analyse systems of government using comparisons with other states.
You'll cover the principles governing offer, acceptance, consideration and the intention to create legal relations.
You'll also discuss the content of contracts, the incorporation of different terms and the common law and statutory controls on exclusion clauses as well as practical drafting techniques employed by contract lawyers.
You'll explore the basics of what the law seeks to achieve within a democracy, identification of the main classifications and sources of law, and detailed examination of the process of parliamentary and judicial law making.
You'll also look at European influences during the UK's time in the EU, and a detailed study of the Human Rights Act.
You'll learn how to use academic databases and journals through a series of tasks which will have direct relevance to topics you studied in other modules.
You'll develop your abilities in academic writing by writing a short essay, case study analysis or similar written artefact in each lecture session.
You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of key constitutional principles, legal frameworks and political dynamics that shape the British constitution.
You'll also examine European Union laws in the context of the post-Brexit relationship between the UK and the EU.
The module also explores mechanisms through which citizens can seek redress against public bodies, including judicial review.
Students will explore the historical and philosophical underpinnings of social justice, gaining insights into the ethical imperatives that drive lawyers' efforts to realise social change.
They will also learn about the various legal tools lawyers employ, including litigation, legal education, and policy advocacy, to advance social justice causes.
Real-world case studies will be analysed, allowing students to assess the impact of legal interventions on diverse social issues such as housing, family, immigration, employment and welfare.
Additionally, the module will address the challenges lawyers face when advocating for social justice, encouraging students to critically reflect on their ethical responsibilities.
Through focused seminar discussions, you'll get to examine key concepts of tort law.
You will develop a critical understanding of how tort law impacts society and the challenges faced by both claimants and defendants.
The module combines theoretical knowledge with practical application, while embedding essential study skills throughout.
You'll engage with case law analysis and problem-solving to evaluate complex legal scenarios and propose reasoned solutions.
You'll complete the module equipped with the knowledge, skills and an understanding of these principles in order to provide advice to a notional client.
The module is comprised of two substantive parts.
The first explores legal and regulatory issues posed by the emergence of AI technologies (e.g., challenges relating to privacy and data protection, intellectual property, human rights and non-discrimination, autonomous vehicles, autonomous weapons) by way of reference to real use cases and theoretical literature.
The second comprises of an in-depth examination of the innovative influence of AI technology on legal practice, providing students with the opportunity to develop their use of emerging technologies to enhance their professional skills.
Upon completion of the module students will have developed a high level of understanding of what AI is, the challenges it poses for the law, and the relevance of the use of AI software in the legal sector.
Students will critically explore the core principles and concepts of direct and indirect discrimination, as a well as harassment, positive action, and victimisation.
Further studies will critically explore particular issues raised in relation to race, sex, gender, religion or belief, disability, age, and sexual orientation.
These include religious beliefs conflicting with rights attached to sexual orientation, bans on the display of religious symbols and clothing, racism, and women's rights at work, as well as any topical issues of the day.
You'll examine the criminal justice process from initial proceedings through to conclusion, developing practical skills essential for criminal law practice.
You will also consider the law of evidence in this module.
You'll examine the democratic deficit within the EU and the unique legal challenges faced by Northern Ireland, including the Protocol and Windsor Framework.
The concept of EU Supremacy will be explored in the context of the evolving status and interpretation of Retained/Assimilated EU Law post-Brexit.
The module also explores the principles of Direct and Indirect Effect, State Liability, and the fundamental freedoms of the Single Market.
Through this module, you'll gain a detailed understanding of the complex status of EU Law in a post-Brexit context.
Students will be offered the opportunity to work in a weekly placement with one of our external partners where the emphasis will be on application of legal theory to real life issues/situations, to assist the clients of the partner organisation.
Students will learn a range of skills, which will be communicated to the student at the outset of their placement (depending on the partner organisation) but in all organisations there will be an emphasis on the ability to communicate using different mediums, organisation and independent learning.
Students will be required to integrate into their partner organisation, contributing to the overall achievement of the organisation's own aims and objectives, and identifying areas of difficulty.
In preparation for entry into a post degree professional environment, the module will provide a focus on self-reflection.
You'll develop practical skills in business formation, management, and dissolution while understanding key aspects of employment law and taxation relevant to business operations.
This module also delves into the legal framework for children's rights in the domestic legal system, the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and the European Social Charter (ESC).
It further examines the specific legal and thematic aspects related to children in care, children in the asylum and refugee system, and children within the court system, providing students with a comprehensive understanding of the legal and practical aspects of safeguarding children's rights.
You'll develop the essential knowledge and skills required to understand trust law, will drafting, and intestacy rules while considering professional risk management and ethical considerations.
Students' in this module will provide support to the local community in the form of a legal information presentation on a relevant and informative legal issue.
You will work in teams to research, plan, and deliver a presentation on a legal issue ( or range of issues) to your designated organisation (such as; charities, schools/colleges, and community organisations).
You will develop skills in; teamwork, research, communication methods, reflection, and learn to practically apply your academic knowledge acquired across the degree programme.
After an introduction to your designated organisation you and your group will be supported through the process of research, planning, design and presentation of the legal issue.
There will be an emphasis on reflection throughout the process.
Not only will you gain skills and knowledge in liaising with, and presenting a legal issue to real life clients' but further, you will have experience to draw from, when engaging in interviews with employers.
It outlines the different sectors of environmental law as well as provides an insight and understanding of the principles and concepts upon which environmental law is based.
It also analyses the ways in which particular issues are addressed and, where appropriate, places these in their international context.
It introduces students to the role that international environmental law has within the development of national environmental law.
Directed activity will focus on discussion of issues using taught knowledge and the student's independent research.
Student's will apply law to problem situations, as well as improve the ability to critically reflect on the human rights issues involved in family law.
Relevant skills will be developed through seminar activities and utilised in tackling the assessment for this module.
The course is very interactive.
We have been able to engage with lawyers on a practical scale.
I have had the opportunity to take part in the practical lawyer unit which enables me to engage directly in the field of legal advice which has greatly boosted my confidence.
Patricia Asekenye, LLB (Hons) Law
The way you qualify as a solicitor has changed and we want to make sure that we prepare you as much as possible for the new SQE exams.
The SQE exams are multiple choice, so we're adapting our assessment methods so that you're confident with this method of assessment.
Your assessment will depend on which modules you take, but it's likely to include:
Many of my lecturers have either been barristers or solicitors.
This is really good, as they know what is needed to succeed in this field.
Joy Mazhambe, LLB Hons Law student
You'll need to read several recommended books or textbooks for each module that you study with us.
We have an extensive library on campus and most of these books will be available for you and other students to borrow.
However, there will be limited numbers of these available so if you choose to buy your textbooks instead, they’ll cost around £40 each.
To start LLB (Hons) Law in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start LLB (Hons) Law with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-with-business:
Business knowledge is important to law firms, and commercial law is the largest legal sector in the UK.
Study a Law with Business degree to combine both disciplines.
M1NC,                      M1N0
Develop the skills and knowledge of a law degree alongside a broad understanding of business.
Explore how law relates to industry, and how industry operates within the law.
This course is ideal if you're considering a career in corporate law, one of the most highly paid sectors of law (Prospects 2021), and will equip you with the leadership skills you need to succeed as a business professional.
You’ll learn core aspects of the legal framework that impacts business and organisations, such as corporate commercial law and contract law, and use facilities including our replica courtroom to practise your skills in a realistic environment.
You’ll apply your learning in practical settings throughout the course — as well as growing your advocacy skills in the courtroom you’ll build your experience through initiatives such as our Community Lawyer module, where you’ll have the opportunity to put your learning into practice with live client work.
Our Law in Practice module offers you three months of qualifying work experience if you decide to take your Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) after you graduate.
If you choose to take an optional paid placement year before or after your third year, you’ll graduate with a year’s experience in industry too.
Our Placement Club will support you  throughout the application and placement placement.
The thing that attracted to me to Portsmouth initially was the course’s balance between academic study and practical application.
You wouldn't just learn all the technical things you needed from a book and be done with them, you’d also be taught how to apply them to real life cases that you might encounter down the road.
Tom Storey, Alumnus, LLB Law with Business
Volunteer in our General Legal Advice Clinic where you can help Portsmouth residents with their real legal problems, such as consumer or employment issues.
Learn more about the Legal Advice Clinic
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer LLB (Hons) Law with Business with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on LLB (Hons) Law with Business.
As well as meeting the entry requirements, we’re looking for excellent skills in academic reading and writing and the ability to think critically and express yourself clearly - verbally and in writing.
You do not have to be a confident presenter to get a place on this degree; we'll help you develop those skills throughout the course.
To prepare for this course, knowledge of current affairs and business and law in the news is useful.
Reading a quality newspaper is a good starting point.
Becoming a parent made me realise that I didn't just want a job that was comfortable.
I wanted a career with stability and possibilities, where I could fulfil my potential and provide.
Tom Storey, Lawyer and LLB Law with Business graduate
Law degrees are in the top 10 degrees for employability .
You'll graduate with a wide range of transferable skills that will make you very employable across a range of other sectors.
Your knowledge of business will be particularly helpful when applying for roles within corporate law or business management.
trainee solicitor
You can boost your employability even more by taking an optional paid placement year after your second or third year of study.
Previous law students have had placements in organisations such as:
15 February 2024
16 February 2024
My year at EY has added an unbelievable amount of value to my overall university experience.
I have developed a range of transferable skills, gained an insight into the world of professional working and made connections which will inevitably support my future career plans.
I now feel super prepared and motivated to graduate.
Paige Olivia Auxilly, LLB Law with Business
You'll cover the key concepts, principles, decision frameworks and practices in relation to major aspects of operations management, including: process design, capacity and resource management, supply chain management, inventory management, lean, quality management, systems in business, project management, operations improvement, and the sustainability of operations.
When you complete this module successfully, you'll be able to:
Explain the nature and context of working and managing in organisations with diverse membership, including consideration of equality, diversity, cross-cultural and ethical issues in the management of people
Select and apply a range of appropriate theoretical and conceptual frameworks in the analysis and potential resolution of management issues within an organisational context
Identify and discuss how different approaches to leading and managing people contribute to the achievement of individual and organisational objectives
Review and discuss contemporary issues in managing people in organisations and identify the implications of these for managers and other employees
Explore this module
If you're interested in exploring a theoretical analysis of crime and punishment, alongside your fully accredited law degree that covers the foundations of legal knowledge, then this LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology could be the right choice for you.
This is a good option if you're interested in a career in the police or criminal justice system.
This fully accredited single honours LLB (Hons) Law degree is our most traditional, pure law course.
We recommend this option if you're interested in going on to be a barrister, if you're an international student, or if you think you may want an academic career in the law.
This new and practically focussed LLB (Hons) Law with Legal Practice is specifically tailored to today's legal career pathways, preparing you for your next step as a solicitor or a chartered legal executive.
Like our other law courses it includes all the foundations of legal knowledge, but gives you more practical experience of applying your knowledge.
This course is ideal if you want to be a solicitor, a chartered legal executive, or a paralegal.
To learn more about our teaching staff's active engagement in research and in addressing current legal challenges, explore our law blog .
Fang.Ma@port.ac.uk
Portsmouth Law School
Joe.Sekhon@port.ac.uk
We recommend that you budget £75 a year for photocopying, memory sticks, printing charges, binding and specialist printing.
To start LLB (Hons) Law with Business in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start LLB (Hons) Law with Business with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/llb-hons-law-with-criminology:
This law degree gives you an understanding of criminology alongside your legal studies.
You’ll have everything you need to go onto a career as a solicitor or barrister, or in the police or probation service.
M1L6,                      M1L0
Complement your law studies with an understanding criminal behaviour and the processes of criminal justice.
On this LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology degree you’ll learn about competing perspectives of crime, how social order can be challenged and maintained, and how the world deals with the crimes of the powerful — such as genocide and war crimes.
You’ll develop your knowledge of the law and legal frameworks too, which builds an ideal foundation for a career in the police or prison services.
You'll apply your learning throughout the course with real world scenarios or live client work, and gain practical experience with opportunities such as the Community Lawyer module.
By taking an optional paid placement year before or after your final year of study, you'll graduate with a year of industry experience too.
Our Placement Club will support you throughout the placement application process, whenever you choose to complete your placement.
If you're not sure you meet the entry requirements, or need some help to get uni-ready, then we offer LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with a Foundation Year through our partners at ICP to bring you up to speed.
When you successfully finish, you'll get a guaranteed place on LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology.
To prepare for this course, knowledge of current affairs and law in the news is useful.
Your knowledge of criminology will be particularly helpful when applying for roles within the criminal justice system, such as the police or the probation service.
Portsmouth gave me a real insight into how the law works in the real world.
There were several opportunities to do work experience, network with professionals and attend talks about the profession.
This is what made Portsmouth unique.
Meeno Chawla, Law LLB with Criminology
If you'd like to study a fully accredited law degree that covers all the foundations of legal knowledge, but combines this with an understanding of business and management our LLB (Hons) Law with Business may be the right degree for you.
This is a great option if you're interested in going on to work in corporate law.
To start LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology in 2026, apply through UCAS.
To start LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with Foundation Year in 2026, apply through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/disability-advice:
Advice and support for students or applicants who discloses a disability or additional learning need
Jump to: Academic support | Getting around | Funding | Providing evidence | Information for DSA Assessors & Suppliers | Information for Non-Medical Help Suppliers | Current students | Contact us
From the very moment I set foot in Portsmouth, the entire Disability Advice team has been very supportive, giving me the necessary tools and directions, which in one way or another have enabled me to complete this course successfully.
The fact that I have been able to complete the course alone is a miracle.
Jonathan Dumson-Kofhan, BSc (Econ) (Hons) Economics, Finance and Banking
Reasonable adjustments remove or minimise the challenges you experience as a student, allowing you to develop as an independent learner.
The adjustments you will have depend on your individual needs.
Reasonable adjustments can include:
Where appropriate, we'll make reasonable adjustments to ensure you are given every opportunity to demonstrate your learning.
We can work with you and your specific department to provide reasonable adjustments throughout your studies — and not only for your exams.
Exam adjustments could include:
For further information, please see 4.1 of the Assessment Regulations .
Specialist study skills and strategies sessions help you develop your own individual skills so you can work independently.
These sessions are arranged on a one-to-one basis, and you're encouraged to discuss the areas you wish to concentrate on with your tutor.
You have been such a brilliant support network for me and I cannot describe how grateful I am for all that you have done for me.
I feel that you have played a big role in my success at Uni and I will never forget that.
Anonymous, University of Portsmouth Graduate
Explore access guides for our buildings, and routes around Portsmouth on the AccessAble website.
If you are eligible, you should apply for additional funding as soon as possible before arriving at university.
The process can take time, so the sooner you apply, the greater your chance of having everything ready when you start your course.
If you have a disability, medical condition or specific learning difference such as Dyslexia, you may be eligible for the Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA).
The support you get depends on your individual learning needs.
The Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) is not means tested.
It is a good idea to apply for DSA before you arrive at university as the process can take up to 3 months to complete.
The sooner you apply, the more likely you will have the support you need at the start of your course.
Funding from the DSA can help you with:
Explore financial support for students who have disabilities or dependents during their studies.
Appropriate evidence is required when you apply for the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Make sure to check your eligibility and evidence requirements with your funding body:
If you are a Global student or applicant due to start a course not qualified for DSA (such as a Degree Apprenticeship), please contact us to discuss alternative options.
For more information you can visit Advanced HE and read their publication Considerations for disabled applicants to higher or degree apprenticeships .
This document provides guidance for disabled students apply for a higher or degree apprenticeship in the UK
The Snowdon Trust is a charity dedicated to providing grants to disabled and sensory impaired students in the UK.
About 100 grants are awarded each year ranging from £250 to £3,000.
They cover support costs for sign language interpreters, note-takers, computers, specialist software and wheelchairs.
The Snowden Trust also provides the Snowden Masters Scholarships , in partnership with the Global Disability Innovation Hub.
The Scholarships aim to support and accelerate disabled students with the ability to create change, influence others and become leaders and role-models.
The Student Health Association administers the Student Disability Assistance Fund which helps Higher Education students with disabilities in full-time or nearly full-time studies.
It cannot help with fees or general living expenses.
Priority is given to those who cannot obtain statutory funding.
Maximum awards are £500.
You can find out more on the following link: The Student Health Association .
A letter from your doctor or a consultant confirming your disability, and how it affects you, your studies and everyday living.
This may also be used by external funding bodies when you apply for additional disability related funding.
The letter should:
If you are looking to access additional academic support for a specific learning difference via the Disabled Students' Allowance, you will need a diagnostic assessment.
The sooner you do this, the more likely all your support will be in place when you start your course.
You can get a private assessment through the following organisations:
This document aims to provide information that is commonly required for Needs Assessment reports.
If you require further information or have specific recommendations not otherwise covered in this information, please contact us at +44 (0)23 9284 3462 or disabilityadvice@port.ac.uk to discuss the matter with one of our Disability Officers.
DSA assessors should note that the University is currently at capacity for DSA funded support.
This document aims to provide an overview of services at the University to help staff signpost students to available support.
If you require further information, or have specific recommendations not otherwise covered in this information, then please contact us on +44 (0)23 9284 3462 or disabilityadvice@port.ac.uk
If you're already studying here, you can browse our service opening times, read our advice, and explore our self-help resources on MyPort.
Visit MyPort
If you have any questions or would like to find out how we can help you, contact us by email at disabilityadvice@port.ac.uk or give us a call on +44 (0)23 9284 3462 .
University House Winston Churchill Avenue Portsmouth P01 2UP
As a University, we have made a commitment to consider all applications equally.
Every application is assessed on your academic merit and potential.
If you disclose a disability in your application, the admissions team will pass this information to the Disability Advice team.
Disability Advice can take action to discuss your support and learning needs.
We would like to meet with you personally and discuss your requirements, with a focus on what we can offer and to manage expectations early in the process.
If there are health and safety concerns, barriers resulting from professional competence requirements that cannot be removed through reasonable adjustments, we will have to withdraw our offer.
For further information, please see our full Admissions Policy .
Read our Disability Advice Privacy Statement.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/sport-in-portsmouth:
Stay fit with sports, fitness, and outdoor adventures
Sport at the uni
Competitive and casual sport
Sport in the city
Our campus is home to a variety of sport and fitness facilities.
Explore Ravelin Sports Centre where you can take part in fitness classes, courses and workshops, led by our skilled fitness staff and access a 175 station gym.
Discover our indoor sports halls and courts where you can play volleyball, badminton, tennis, squash, and outdoor facilities for sports including football, rugby, netball, and more.
If you compete at regional or international level, you could get funding worth between £250 and £3,000 from our Sports Scholarship Scheme.
Around 20 students a year receive this scholarship, regardless of nationality, year of study or academic course.
We've got the sea and national parks on our doorstep, and several sports centres across the city, so you'll have lots of opportunities to get active when you live in Portsmouth.
Including:
Why not try taking in some of the beautiful seaside scenery by riding your bike along the seafront or going for a hike at The South Downs National Park?
Alternatively, you could set sail around the Solent or participate in community events like the Southsea Parkrun.
Interested in the world of sports?
Discover our sport courses below:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/societies-and-students-union:
Find out more about your Students' Union (SU) – from how to get involved, to the many clubs and societies you can join
Run by students, for students as an independent charity, the mission of the University of Portsmouth Students' Union (UPSU) is to make a positive impact on every Portsmouth student.
The Union is buzzing with young and inspiring people who are improving their skills, taking on new experiences and motivating others to get involved.
Supporting you throughout your student life, the Union gives you access to activities and services that broaden your horizons, increase your employability and helps you make lifelong friends.
If you're studying at the University, you're already a member of UPSU, but there's more you can do .
As a member of the Union, you can:
There are loads of student-run groups , covering sport, culture, politics, gaming, faith and much more.
Meet like-minded people and share experiences over a game, a night out or a society-run event.
Depending on your interests, you can:
Plus many, many more…
The Union Shop in the reception of the Union Building in Cambridge Road is at the heart of the student community.
It's home to all our University of Portsmouth merchandise and a hub for students to make general inquiries.
See our branded clothing and accessories range, which includes t-shirts, hoodies, sweaters, varsity jackets, mugs and water bottles.
There's also a what's on noticeboard for our clubs and societies.
Our Student Union building features The 3rd Space, an open plan area for you to chill with your friends, study in a casual environment and check out what's happening around the university.
The 3rd Space is home to community and society events such as Feel Good Fest, Nerdvana and Fight Night.
There's also a flexible stage and live performance setup, where we've hosted the likes of British rapper, writer and activist Akala, a live broadcast of BBC Radio 4's Any Questions and a Radio 1 professional meet and greet for students to learn about the radio industry.
Fancy a chilled environment to catch up with friends or work on a team project?
The Common Room is situated downstairs in the Union building and features soft furnishings, air hockey, table tennis and foosball.
It’s also hosted several in-year events, such as Student Election Q&As, Vintage Vera Kilo Sales and more.
There are 5 bookable rooms available in the Union building that are used for conferences, meetings, training, workshops and rehearsals.
Rooms are generally booked on behalf of societies, sports clubs, volunteering and student media groups.
Individual students can book out the rooms for academic purposes by requesting in person.
Find out more about the rooms and how to book them on the Union website.
Just outside the Union building is Gun House Green, an outdoor space that's bright and sunny in the summer.
Hang out with your classmates by the benches and enjoy the weather, take a nap in the shade, or set up a little picnic on the grass.
It's also a good space for events during the warmer months, such as society socials, wellbeing and outreach events, and July Open Days.
Union-run big-ticket events throughout the year include:
Welcome events are your gateway into student life and the highlight is the Freshers' Fayre.
With a live DJ setup on Gun House Green, stalls for clubs, groups and volunteering groups (the Union hosts more than 150), plus discounts and giveaways, Freshers' Fayre is where it all starts.
It's a great opportunity to start making your contacts and friends for life, as well as getting involved in our vibrant student community.
The Union also offers free BBQs when you arrive, guided city walking tours, Give Me Sport taster sessions run by Sport and Rec, and various nights out during September.
Our student groups are active in helping the local community and good causes nationwide.
We run events throughout the year to spread awareness and raise funds for charities.
We've got a particular focus on helping mental health charities provide support to people when they need it most.
For instance, our Music Society has raised funds with Tonic Music for Mental Health and the Gaming Society has run events with the proceeds going to Special Effect .
We hope University will be one of the best experiences of your life!
But if you do need help, the independent Union Advice Service is here to help.
They offer free, confidential, impartial and non-judgemental support.
This includes providing advice and guidance on a range of academic and university issues that you may face throughout your studies.
They can help you understand the University's policies and procedures, as well as support you with any University meetings.
Their team of trained staff and peer advisors are on hand all year round and work closely with the University to resolve issues that may arise and ensure that all students are treated fairly.
The Course Rep system is organised and run jointly between the University and the Students’ Union and the system itself is recognised via the University’s Student Voice Policy.
The University is responsible for electing Course Reps, whilst the Students’ Union provides training, support and volunteering opportunities throughout a Course Reps time in office.
Course Reps are expected to undertake the following tasks:
Further information on the Course Rep scheme can be accessed on our webpage .
For any additional information or queries please email: studentfocus@upsu.net
For more information, check the Students' Union Academic Appeal advice webpage, or attend a drop-in with the Students' Union, on the phone via 02392843478 or in person Monday- Friday 10am-4PM.
Take a closer look at what it's like to study here and more of the exciting things on offer in our amazing city.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/art-and-culture-in-portsmouth:
There's so much to see and do in Portsmouth
Culture
Art
Museums
Both the city and the University are home to people of all cultures, who bring their passion for different pursuits to Portsmouth – so whether you're interested in Ghanaian fashion, Bengali music or comic book culture from around the world, you can take your interest further here.
When you study with us, you can join as many student-led groups as you like.
These include cultural societies like the Cinema Society, Book Club or the Harry Potter Society and national groups including the Bengali Society, the Czechoslovakian Group, or the Afro-Caribbean Society.
If you don't find a society based on your interests, you can always start your own when you arrive at University.
The city hosts many different cultural festivals throughout the year in celebration of food, community, art and history.
The University also hosts its annual Festival of Culture during Global Week , where students showcase their culture and international heritage.
The city has several art galleries and hosts regular arts and crafts festivals, where you can discover local artists, buy their work, or exhibit your own.
Turner Prize winner Sir Grayson Perry studied at Portsmouth, and the city still has a strong artistic community.
Home to new, contemporary and more traditional art, explore some of the main galleries in Portsmouth.
You can also catch a train to the centre of London from Portsmouth in less than 90 minutes, where you'll find hundreds of galleries.
At the University, we offer workshops and creative short courses that you can sign up for outside of your studies.
Make sure to also have a look at the societies run by the Students' Union for any student-led groups that offer workshops.
Aspex is Portsmouth's contemporary art gallery.
We've been in the city since 1981, established by artists, recent graduates and staff of the University of Portsmouth.
I come in quite often of friends and, you know, nice aesthetic here, quite relaxed vibes.
Whatever subject one's studying at university, there's always a lot to draw from contemporary art.
I do think Aspex gallery is unique to Portsmouth.
I don't think other cities have got quite what Portsmouth has to offer.
There's a lot of stuff to do.
It's just a beautiful city.
It's like nowhere else.
You can visit museums to learn about our literature, natural history, and history as the home of the Royal Navy.
Museums in the city include:
Portsmouth Historic Dockyard is a collection of Naval charities and museums including the National Museum of the Royal Navy, the Mary Rose Trust, the HMS Warrior Preservation Trust Ltd and the HMS Victory Preservation Company.
The D-Day Story tells the story of the Normandy Landings.
D-Day was the largest invasion ever assembled by allied troops and the D-Day Story is home to over 10,000 items of significance from the Normandy Landings and the people that were part of it.
Portsmouth Museum gives you an idea of what it was like to live in Portsmouth at different times in history.
Galleries include 'Living in Portsmouth,' 'No Place Like Pompey' and 'Portsmouth at Play'.
Looking for a course that'll help you start a creative career?
Get inspired:
Train to be a theatre professional on our BA (Hons) Theatre degree course.
Learn to make, perform in, and write about theatre, and gain the skills you need to succeed in any career.
Develop your creative skills under the guidance of published authors, poets and playwrights on our English and Creative Writing degree course.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/places-to-eat-in-portsmouth:
Enjoy delicious food in our vibrant coastal city
On-campus
Off-campus
Budget options
Dietary friendly
Whether you’re looking for a quick bite between lectures or to grab tasty food without stepping too far from your lecture halls, we’ve got some great options.
Some of these include:
Where to find us
Venture outside campus to discover our vibrant food scene and the best places to eat in Portsmouth.
Head to Gunwharf Quays for a mix of popular chain restaurants and unique local eateries, offering stunning waterfront views.
Albert Road is another hotspot, known for its eclectic mix of independent cafes, pubs, and international cuisines, perfect for any palate and budget.
Pie and Vinyl
Huis Belgian Bar and Kitchen
Dice
Croxtons
Portsmouth has plenty of affordable options to choose from, including:
Some restaurants also offer student discounts and apps like Too Good To Go offer cheap, surplus food from local eateries.
Portsmouth is packed with options for every dietary need.
Such as:
"My favourite restaurant is Outside-In food court as they offer lots of different foods."
Holly Baker, BSc (Hons) Marine Environmental Science

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/student-stories:
Look through our informative blogs about university life written by our current students
In this study and student life theme blog, you'll get a glimpse at student achievements, life at Portsmouth and tips on studying at uni from our staff and students.
24 June 2025
6 June 2025
5 June 2025
4 June 2025
3 June 2025
20 March 2024
23 July 2025
18 July 2025
8 July 2025
20 June 2025
18 June 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/guidance-and-support:
Access our guidance and support services on study skills, managing your finances, health and wellbeing, and more
If you need a helping hand at uni, we've got it covered.
At Portsmouth there’s a whole raft of student support services run by highly experienced teams.
Whether you need one-to-one study support, personalised money advice, holistic health and wellbeing info or emergency contact numbers, here's where you can access that support.
Getting started with your studies – prepare for the year ahead
ASDAC – confidential advice and support on disability-related issues
Academic Skills Unit – help with developing your writing, managing assessments and approaching academic tasks
Maths Cafe – free help and advice with maths and statistics
Support tutors and advisors – find out about your personal tutor and how they can help you, and the support available in your faculty
Research degrees – discover your Doctoral College, and everything you need for your postgraduate research degree
Staying safe on a night out – look after yourself on a night out
Getting around campus safely – travel safety
Safe sexual relationships at uni – looking after your sexual health and where to go for support
Keeping your information secure – stay safe online and protect your personal data
Urgent support – where to get support after bullying, sexual assault, a hate crime or in a mental health crisis
Accidents and emergencies – get help with an injury or accident
At Portsmouth there’s a whole raft of student support services run by highly experienced teams, such as:
Whatever support you need, we are here to help.
Daniel Do you ever need a helping hand at uni?
Alexis Academic support, personal wellbeing and careers advice - we’re here for you!
I'm Daniel
- and I'm Alexis.
Daniel And today we'll be talking you through all the support available here at the University of Portsmouth.
Alexis The first thing to remember is that the MyPort team is your one stop shop to help you get access to the help you need.
They'll listen to any problems and questions that you have, and direct you to where you need to be, including helping you access multiple support services for complex issues.
They may refer you to an advisor in our Student Life team who can help support you through this process.
Daniel Let's make sure that you're set for success on your course first.
When you arrive at university, you're assigned a personal tutor - a member of your department whose there to help with any kind of academic concerns you may face, or any questions or worries along the way.
They're there to ensure that you perform to your best, and so anything that you are worried about, please do not hesitate to go and speak to them.
Alexis Each faculty also has student engagement officers who are there to help you with less course specific issues, such as stress and motivation, personal problems and extenuating circumstances forms.
Daniel Additional support and disability advice known as ASDAC is a service used to support students who share they have a disability or need additional support for their studies.
With them, you can access confidential advice, discuss reasonable adjustments, or accessing funding, as well as so much more.
Alexis Over in the Lion Gate Building, the Math Café have tutors available every day to give advice and help with math skills, regardless of your course.
Daniel And if English isn't your first language, we offer pre-sessional and in-sessional courses.
The Global Café runs every Wednesday for cultural and language exchange activities.
Alexis The university isn't just here to support your studies.
Your personal wellbeing is just as important.
The Student Wellbeing Service can provide support through workshops, events, courses and 1 to 1 mental health support and counselling.
Daniel They also run a Wellbeing Café every Wednesday where you can enjoy various relaxing activities such as origami and crochet, and share common concerns with fellow students.
Alexis The Residence Life Team, or ResLife, are here to support all students living in university halls.
Their services include 24/7 welfare support, so no matter the time of day, they're only a call away.
Daniel The University’s Chaplaincy offers a safe, inclusive space for all students of any faith and none.
They offer pastoral support, places of quiet reflection and prayer, a dedicated Islamic prayer room and somewhere to pop in for a free cup of tea or coffee and a chat.
Alexis We're also here to help with all the day to day practical stuff.
Daniel The Student Finance Centre helps you apply for and manage your loans from Student Finance England.
They can help you apply and access the uni support funds, as well as discovering scholarships, bursaries and so much more.
For those studying on Student Route visas, the International Student Advice Team is here to help and guide you through the visa process.
Alexis The Student Housing team are also there if you ever need help finding flatmates or housing, dealing with contracts, landlords or neighbours.
Daniel And finally, as you're thinking about your next steps, the Careers and Employability Office here in the Rosalind Franklin Building is here for you if you ever need a job, help planning a career, or even start your own business.
And they're here for you as well up to five years after you graduate.
Alexis Whatever you need help with, the University of Portsmouth is here for you.
Daniel And don't worry about needing to remember everything.
The MyPort team is always your first port of call, so you don't need to go to different contacts or repeat yourself on multiple services.
They're available every weekday, either in person, via email, on the phone, or webchat.
Alexis Thanks for joining us.
We want you to have the best university experience and to set you up for success, so never be afraid to reach out
A designated advisor, bursaries, housing support and more
Read more on our support for care leavers
Our autism toolkit helps you make the most of your time at university
Our Autism at University toolkit
Accommodation, bursaries, designated advisors are more.
Our support for estranged students
Tuition fee support, scholarships and advisers to help.
Support for asylum seekers and refugees
The best ways to get in contact with the team are:
Please provide your student number when contacting us, this will help us to deal with your enquiry more promptly.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-facilities/teaching-and-learning-spaces:
Find out more about our teaching spaces and learning facilities, and the equipment available to our students, researchers and partner
Our teaching and learning spaces are essential to developing the knowledge, experience, and critical-thinking skills our students need to succeed in their studies, and in their careers after graduating.
Across all our subject areas and faculties, we're continuing to invest in new learning spaces and technologies that give our students valuable experiences using the same tools and methods that they'll use in their chosen profession.
Whether it's learning live broadcast practices, caring for the elderly in their own homes, or analysing financial markets using real-time data, our teaching spaces and learning expertise are designed to help students get the most from their time with us.
Our specialist facility staff and technicians are always happy to help students through using the equipment available, as well as offering technical guidance their coursework and projects.
Much of our equipment and many of our rooms are open access, so students are free to visit and work at a time that suits them, while other equipment and spaces can be booked in advance.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/choosing-where-to-live-at-uni:
Helping you choose between halls, private renting or staying at home
Going to uni might be the first time you move away home and your first taste of independence.
Choosing where to live at uni can be one of the most exciting parts of the build up.
But it can also be hard to decide where to live.
Should you live in student halls, private accommodation or stay at home?
This guide can help you take the next step towards starting your university life.
Find out what your options are and the pros and cons of choosing student halls, private renting or living at home.
Jump straight to:
Student halls
Private renting
Living at home
Most unis provide halls for first-year students that are either on-campus or close to the university.
They're usually separate flats with 6-8 student rooms in each flat, so you'll get to meet other students and make friends from the moment you move in.
Student halls are the best option for being at the centre of uni life.
As they're based close to uni, you'll have no problem making it to your morning lectures on time.
If you're preparing for your first year at uni, you'll probably find student halls the easiest accommodation option on offer.
Flats in student halls usually come with bills and wifi included, making calculating your rent straight forward.
And they're fully furnished with a desk, bed and storage so you can move straight in.
You can bring your own TV, video games or posters with you.
Halls are managed by the university, who often have a security team and residential support any time you need it.
You'll share a kitchen with other students if you chose self-catered student halls, or have access to a canteen if you prefer catered halls.
Most student hall rooms have en-suite bathrooms, but some have shared bathrooms, so look out for this when researching where to live.
If you're coming to Portsmouth, explore our halls of residence .
If you want to live with friends in a shared house or you want to live alone, you can choose to rent private accommodation that isn't managed by the university.
Private renting gives you more choice of where you live and who you live with, but you'll also have more responsibility.
Private accommodation means you'll need to manage your rent and bills directly with your landlord, not the university.
Not all landlords include bills and wifi in the rent either – so make sure to keep an eye out for this when you're looking for a place to live.
You should also think about how far you want to travel to uni, and what public transport is available.
Student halls are often situated close to campus, but private accommodation is usually further away.
Many students rent privately for their second and third years of uni, so they can live in a shared house with friends they made in first year.
But this is also an option for your first year, particularly if you've already got friends at your uni.
If you don't have friends to live with but don't want to live in student halls, you can find rooms in private shared houses available at the start of the year.
Some of the rooms will be in student houses – so you'll get to know other students from all different years of study.
You can also find private rooms in houses of people who live in the city.
This is called lodging and you'll be a lodger.
You'll live with the landlord and sometimes their family.
You're likely to be the only student in the house, although some landlords have more than one spare room they rent out.
Renting a spare room in someone's house can be a great way to get to know the city's residents and their friends, which can help you expand your social circle outside of uni.
If you need more advice on renting private accommodation at uni, we have a property viewing checklist and a guide on what to do before you move in .
If you decide not to move away for uni, you could continue to live at home.
You won't be living with other students, but you'll still get to take part in uni life.
Living at home while at uni can be a great way to save money on food shopping, rent and bills – especially if you don't have to pay rent at home.
But you might have less freedom than living away from home and fewer opportunities to develop your independence.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-renting:
Make yourself at home, whether you're sharing a house or moving in as a lodger
Renting privately means you get to choose exactly where you live and who you live with.
Portsmouth has lots of beautiful and buzzing places to live, from the picturesque seafront to the city centre and beyond.
It's a compact island city that only takes an hour to cross on foot or 20 minutes by bike, so exploring is easy too.
In fact, we'd recommend leaving your car at home – you probably won't need it and parking spaces can be scarce in Portsmouth.
Your budget, how far you want to commute and your interests play a big role when house-hunting.
Wherever you choose, you'll be close to everything you need.
And if you ever need help, you can always talk to us .
Our Student Housing Team can help even if you're not in halls.
Where to live
House sharing
Lodging
The central areas of Southsea and Fratton are the most popular locations for students.
They're home to much of the city's best nightlife, restaurants and culture, and the University is a short walk away.
Central Portsmouth offers a good mixture of student houses, converted flats, lodgings and studios.
To the east and north of Portsmouth are Eastney, Milton, North End and Hilsea.
They're slightly quieter than the city centre, but they've got everything you could need, and they offer great transport links into the city too.
In the north of the city, you'll find the residential areas Drayton, Farlington, Cosham, Fareham and Gosport.
There are great bike, bus and train connections between the first three locations, and again, each has every local amenity you need.
Gosport is across the water to west, but you can catch a 5-minute ferry to Gunwharf Quays – which is a short walk or bike ride from the campus.
You can take your bike on board for the journey.
From Fareham, there's a regular direct train to Portsmouth that takes about 20 minutes.
In all these places, you'll find good value residential accommodation that's particularly suited to students who are moving with a family.
You should expect to pay on average £95-£130 per week (bills excluded) to £120-£160 per week (bills included) per person.
You should also budget around £45+ per week for food/personal care items.
If you cannot provide a guarantor some landlords may request a large portion of the rent (six months+) upfront to guarantee rental payments.
The University works in partnership with Housing Hand , to help UK, EU and International students, provide a qualifying UK Guarantor when renting in the private sector & PBSA.
You can find rental properties through our Studentpad service.
Use Studentpad to search a database of student houses, flats, private halls providers and lodgings, all of which are officially registered to advertise with our Student Housing team.
Landlords have to sign up to our Code of Practice for Safety and Standards before we put their properties on Studentpad.
You can be sure of a fair deal if you find your house there.
Sharing a house with others is so much fun!
We all get on very well and have cooking nights, game nights and movie nights together.
Iona McMillan, BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
Lodgings are where you stay with a live-in landlord – for example, when you rent a spare room in a family's house.
Being a lodger is a cost-effective way to live while you study.
You can expect to pay £110-£150 a week, but all bills (and sometimes meals) are included.
We offer lots of support to help you adjust to renting in the private sector.
We put on housing events and drop-in sessions, and provide online resources and a student matching service.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/portsmouths-music-scene:
Love music?
Dive into Portsmouth's music scene
Festivals and venues
Music in the community
Music at the University
We're lucky enough to have two major music festivals right on our doorstep - Victorious Festival and Isle of Wight Festival - which bring acts like Biffy Clyro, Wet Leg, Jamie T and Muse to the south coast.
Southsea is home to smaller events showcasing local and upcoming talent too - check out Icebreaker , Golden Touch and Night Currents at iconic grassroots venue, the Wedgewood Rooms .
Other local venues include:
Victorious Festival
Kelly Jones from the band Stereophonics, performing at Isle of Wight Festival.
Dream Wife performing at the Wedgewood Rooms in Southsea
Hear from Pie and Vinyl owner, Steve Courtnell, and student Cerys, on why they love the record café and Portsmouth itself.
The passion was born through the love of music, but of course, 10 years ago, perhaps a physical format didn't have a life.
I wanted to create an experience.
The vinyl record, I think, is an experience.
It forces you to listen to it.
And then I thought of incorporating a food element.
So like a kind of a café culture where you sold music and we also played good music in the shop.
I think it's a really cool concept.
I don't know anywhere else that does pies and vinyl together, and I just think it's really cool and creative.
I'm really proud.
I'm Portsmouth through and through.
I love Portsmouth because it is one of the only island cities in the UK.
I'm originally from Cornwall and being by the sea was really important for me and the whole island is surrounded by it.
So whenever I miss home, it's so quick to go to the beach and I love that.
When we go out and we get invited to things like the 6 Music Festival, we do end up being more kind of TripAdvisor's than anything else.
Explore these opportunities to express your musical flair:
Discover how music can benefit communities by supporting these music charities:
When you study with us, you'll have access to our specialist music facilities and you can listen to or perform with our many music societies.
You can also hire instruments or arrange private tuition from our Music Department.
We have recording spaces, a live performance room, and recording control rooms on campus - all with industry-standard equipment.
Discover the studios
Looking for a course that'll help you start a career in music?
Combine musical creativity and technology to compose, design, and produce in a collaborative and creative environment
Explore the theory and practice of recording, production, composition, and music computing on this Music Technology Bachelor's degree.
Let loose your musical creativity with access to the latest professional engineering and production software on this Music Technology Master’s degree, directing and producing your own creative music projects.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/shopping-in-portsmouth:
Find great local businesses, designer brands, and more
Independent shops and clothing brands
Street markets and the high street
Southsea is an independent shopper's paradise.
You'll find everything from vintage clothes, to records, homeware, flowers and craft supplies.
Love Southsea Market and Hampshire Farmers' Market are markets where you'll find a range of items to buy.
From gifts, homeware and clothing to meats, cheeses, baked goods, fruits and vegetables.
Commercial Road is the main high street in Portsmouth, where you'll find a range of popular high street shops.
The street also hosts a market all day every Thursday, Friday and Saturday selling fruit, vegetables and flowers.
Gunwharf Quays is the biggest shopping outlet for designer brands in Portsmouth.
You'll find outlet stores from major international names such as Nike, Calvin Klein, Polo Ralph Lauren, Jack Wills and more.
Find inspiration by exploring our fashion and business degrees to find where your passion lies:
Gain the tools to bring value to the corporate world, or help you get your own business off the ground.
Hone your creative, critical, and technical skills in this Fashion and Textiles Master's course.
Gain full awareness of the commercial aspects of fashion.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-outside-study/beaches-piers-and-parks:
Explore parks, beaches, and green spaces in Portsmouth
Outdoor spots
Seafront Challenge
Student favourites
From the scenic Southsea Beach to the historic South Parade Pier, there's no shortage of stunning locations to enjoy the fresh sea air, including:
Portsmouth has plenty of neighbouring places to explore and connect with nature.
A trail that takes you to ten of the most iconic places across our island city, including places like:
Michaela : Hi guys, my name is Michaela, and today I'm going to be doing the Portsmouth Seafront Challenge.
I’ll be taking you to 10 places along the seafront of Portsmouth.
So come along and join me!
Michaela : This is Bath Square, the historic tip of old Portsmouth.
It used to be known as Spice Island because sailors hung out here when they wanted a spicy adventure.
Michaela : This is the Round Tower, built in 1418.
Its formidable structure was designed to defend Portsmouth Harbor and stop French ships from successfully mounting raids on the city.
Michaela : This is the Square Tower.
Originally the residence of Henry VII's military governor, this historic building has since served as a Navy ammunition store, a meat store, a semaphore tower, and even a wedding venue.
Michaela : This is the Royal Garrison Church, dating back to around 1212.
The building's roof was destroyed by a Nazi firebomb raid in 1941.
Its stained glass windows depict scenes from World War II and the church’s earlier history.
Michaela : This is Clarence Pier, one of the largest amusement parks on the south coast.
This particular amusement park is unusual because it extends along the coast rather than out to sea.
Michaela : This is Southsea Castle.
Henry VIII demanded this fort be built to defend England from invasion.
It was here in 1545 that the Mary Rose sank during an attack by French invaders.
Michaela : This is the Rock Garden, sheltered from coastal breezes but just a stone’s throw away from the promenade.
This little haven of calm dates back to the 1920s, when rock gardens were very popular.
Michaela : This is South Parade Pier.
Whether you want a place to eat, shop, fish, or just enjoy the spectacular views, this is the place for you.
Michaela : This is Canoe Lake, a peaceful park set slightly back from the seafront.
It’s the perfect place for a picnic.
Its white swan pedalos perfectly reflect the park’s role as a nursery home for swans.
Michaela : This is the Southsea Rose Garden.
Built on the site of an old fort, you can now find a variety of beautifully colored roses here.
Michaela : I hope you guys enjoyed the video and learned a little something about the historic sights on Portsmouth's seafront.
I really enjoyed the day, so I challenge you to do the Seafront Challenge!
Hear why our students love Portsmouth’s outdoor spaces.
“My favourite place in Portsmouth is the pier, its great in summertime with a group of people.”
Cartier Charles, BSc (Hons) Property Development
“My favourite place to walk/run is the seafront – the sunrises and sunsets are amazing."
Holly Baker, BSc (Hons) Marine Environmental Science
“I like Victoria Park and seeing all the animals.”
Leah Jackson, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Forensic Studies
Can’t visit in person?
Explore our beaches, parks and green spaces from wherever you are.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/outstanding-teaching:
Our teaching gives you everything you need to succeed on your course and thrive in your career, wherever it takes you
Our degrees are designed with your future career in mind.
75 percent of our undergraduates are studying courses that are accredited by professional, statutory and regulatory bodies.
That means you’ll graduate with skills employers are looking for.
University of Portsmouth awarded an overall rating of Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF 2023).
This is an independent review of teaching quality across higher education providers in England, undertaken by the Office for Students.
Gold is the highest possible rating.
Our students are taught directly by professional, qualified staff and world leading researchers.
Our highest areas of student satisfaction are in academic support and learning resources, placing us in the TOP 20 in England (NSS, 2023).
At Uni, you want to figure out a career that you are going to love.
Innovator.
Movie Maker.
City Trader.
Life Saver.
Investigator.
Whatever success looks like for you, stability, choice, freedom,
Portsmouth is the place to find it and if you're not ready to change the world just yet, it's all good, Portsmouth is the place for you too.
It's your time.
Yes, you!
It's your place.
This means our teaching, learning and student outcomes are outstanding, and among the highest quality in the UK.
Here's how we do it
Our expert lecturers have years of experience – in teaching, industry and frequently both.
Many remain active in their professions, and because they're continuously developing their knowledge, they'll teach you all the relevant, most-recent things you need to know, so you can hit the ground running in your career.
The majority of our research is rated as 'world leading' and 'internationally excellent' by the Research Excellence Framework (REF) , which independently assesses the quality of research in UK universities.
And because much of our research is carried out by the same people who'll be teaching you, the breakthroughs and discoveries we make will feed directly into our courses – so you'll be exploring the latest theories and developing original ideas as part of your studies.
It's not all classrooms and textbooks: at Portsmouth, you can also apply what you learn in our outstanding simulated work environments and learning spaces .
Law students practice their skills in our replica court, while students from disciplines such as criminology and social work can experience being an expert witness in a simulated legal case.
Other simulated environments include:
You can apply your skills in the local community too, like our dental students, who treat NHS patients in our Dental Academy; and our sport and exercise science students, who run coaching courses at local schools.
We involve employers and professional bodies in developing course content, so everything you learn will be relevant to your career when you graduate.
Many of our courses are accredited or validated by professional organisations, who make sure that these courses give you the relevant skills and abilities to work in the industry right away.
Many of our degrees also allow you to achieve chartered status or other professional qualifications faster: which can supercharge your career prospects and help you stand out from the crowd.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment/careers-and-employability-support:
Careers support during your degree and for 5 years after you graduate
You can meet with the Careers and Employability Service at any point during your degree for information, advice, and guidance, whether you're looking for part-time work, placements , volunteering opportunities , work experience or graduate jobs.
You'll be supported by careers advisers with an excellent track record — with 94% of our students in work and/or further study (HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey 2020/21).
Towards the end of your degree and after graduation you can access our Graduate Recruitment Consultancy, or you can get help applying for further study or to set up your own business .
of graduates in work or further study
(HESA graduate outcomes survey 2020/21)
The Careers Service helped prepare me for my graduate interview and gave me all the tools I needed to be successful and get the job on an extremely competitive graduate scheme.
You’ll receive tailored 1 to 1 support from career advisers to develop essential career skills, from creating your CV or portfolio to preparing for interviews.
Our term-time daily drop-in service means you can access support when it suits you, around your studies.
Our online career guides help you understand everything you need to know about getting into various industries.
We’ll guide you through the options available after your degree including providing dedicated support for starting your own business.
Using your new career skills, we’ll support you with your job search and applications, whether you’re looking to earn extra cash through part-time work, or securing a graduate position ready for finishing your degree.
Our in-house Graduate Recruitment Consultancy works with 3000 employers across the South Coast to support final-year students and graduates with their job search.
You’ll have access to all of our services for up to 5 years after you graduate, and our dedicated Graduate Careers Adviser will support you in achieving your career goals following your course.
Studying with us gives you more than dedicated careers and employability support — you'll also have access to work placement and experience opportunities, volunteering opportunities and business startup advice.
Increase your employment opportunities and strengthen your skills by taking a sandwich year degree with a placement.
Discover the benefits of volunteering for a charity or not-for-profit whilst at university.
Find a role that matches your interests and career ambitions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment/work-experience-opportunities:
Increase your employability skills and get work experience while studying
Employers look at more than your degree after you graduate, so our courses are packed with opportunities to build your work experience and transferable skills as you study.
As well as year-long placements on our connected degrees ®, many of our courses include long or short-term work experience placements, live client projects, and work-based modules to enhance your employability.
And if you want to be your own boss, we'll support you to set up your own business .
Find out about specific work experience opportunities and project for your course on your chosen course page , or explore the kinds of work experience you could take part in below.
The best place to find out about the work experience you can do on your course is on your chosen course page.
You'll prepare for your career in many ways throughout your degree — from undertaking paid and unpaid projects to working with clients, volunteering, and networking with professionals.
Our degrees already include ways to apply your learning and build your experience as part of your studies, and many courses have optional modules and additional opportunities that can benefit you too.
Some subjects work directly with live clients, while others support you to produce portfolios or websites, or encourage you to volunteer with a local business.
Depending on your subject, you could find a company or cause to work with during your final year project too.
Past final projects from students have been put to use in companies like the BBC, the Royal Navy, Portsmouth City Council, Locomatrix, Fort Nelson Museum and the Wildlife Aid Foundation.
If you're studying an accounting of finance course, you'll get to work in our Accounting Clinic in your second and final years.
You'll give accounting advice to charities, social enterprises and community interest groups in Hampshire.
You'll be supervised by a qualified accountant who specialises in charity audits.
You'll get accounting work experience in areas like independent examinations and annual reviews of internal controls, and potentially visit organisations in their workplace to give them finance training.
As well as direct work experience opportunities, you'll have access to our accounting and finance mentoring scheme , as well as your Women in Economics mentoring programme .
The Architecture Project Office is our in-house architectural consultancy based in the School of Architecture.
Led by academic staff and designers who work with students to provide architecture consultancy and innovative designs for clients, the Project Office gives our students experience working with real clients and supports our architecture research .
Open to undergraduates and postgraduates, joining the Architecture Project Office is an optional extra-curricular activity designed to enhance your architecture skills, boost your CV and help you build a network of contacts.
You'll work on real client projects, and could work with local organisations including charities, local authorities within Hampshire, private clients and the University Estates Department.
The projects you'll work on could be intensive, fast-paced design workshops, or consultancy projects focused on detailed design feasibility studies, production information packages, site inspection and supervision services.
Past projects have included:
As well as options to work on live clients projects as part of your course, you'll have the chance to take part in our Business and Management mentoring scheme and be paired with working professionals who will support your career journey and share their experiences with you.
Work for a client on a real brief in the optional Business Consultancy module.
You'll work in teams of 3-4 to bid for a business project from local organisations before working with the organisation to execute the project.
Clients include small-to-medium sized organisations that could be from the private, public or third sector (such as charities, not-for-profits and community organisations).
Each project is different but depending on your project and company, you could:
On many of our creative courses, you'll work on real client projects.
These projects are opportunities to apply the skills and knowledge learned on your degree, and to practice skills such as team working, client liaison and working to a brief.
The experience of working with clients looks great on your CV.
And you might develop business contacts to help you find employment when you graduate.
As well as the specific work experience opportunities available on your course, most CCI courses include the optional 'Professional Experience' module where you'll earn credits by taking part in paid and unpaid work, volunteering, research placements, internships and other work-related learning.
Previous students have done work experience like TV audience management on Britain’s Got Talent and The Million Pound Drop, Warner Brothers Film Studios operations assistant and freelance sports photography.
On our Dental courses, you'll train in practical teams in modern clinical facilities that replicate those in NHS dental practices.
You'll apply your training in our Dental Academy and Dental Clinic where you'll provide dental care and oral health promotions to patients from the University and the local community.
As part of our Engineering courses, you'll build your practical experience in labs that work alongside your lectures.
Our students organise and take part in competitions such as the Drone competition, as well as national competitions like Formula Student , where you'll work in a small team to design, build and race a single-seat racing car.
You can even grow your professional by joining the Students' Union Manufacturing club, where you'll have the chance to explore ideas, share your interests, and experiment with the materials, processes and facilities covered in your course.
With the optional Marketing Consultancy Project module on the BA (Hons) Marketing course, you'll work with an employer to design and create a practical marketing development plan to implement in the business.
You'll use your degree skills and knowledge, as you work independently to identify key deliverables and define your project plan.
In your final year of a Maths course, you can do a 5-day (or 10 half-day) placement in a local school or college, acting as a role-model for school students interested in pursuing Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) subjects.
This placement develops your confidence in communicating your knowledge of maths, as well as your understanding of teaching methods and adapting to individual student needs.
You'll work alongside experienced teachers in an educational environment from your choice of Primary to A Level.
You'll have plenty of chances to build your practical skills as you study, particularly with modules like 'Law in Practice', where you'll apply to work as a legal adviser and support live clients in our Legal Clinic , and the 'Community Lawyer' module — where you'll work with one of our partners in the third sector or private sector.
You could work with companies including the British Red Cross, Churchers Solicitors, Citizens Advice, Hampshire Fire and Rescue Services, Mercatis Law or Portsmouth Mediation Service.
If you're considering a career in teaching you'll need classroom experience — and university is an excellent time to start this process.
Our volunteer teaching scheme is a chance to teach first year GCSE students in local secondary schools about topics relating to your degree.
You'll experience teaching first-hand, and graduate with the experience you need to start your teaching journey.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment/volunteering-opportunities:
Volunteer for a local organisation and develop your employability skills
Are you looking for a way to make a difference in the community and learn new skills at university?
Volunteering is a great way to give make an impact in the community, boost your skills and meet new people.
Volunteering for a charity that you care about will enhance your time at uni — and improves you career prospects once you graduate.
Some students even receive a professional reference from the charities they volunteer with, which helps them stand out in the graduate job market.
As a student volunteer, you can:
There are loads of opportunities to volunteer a uni - whether you're working with a local or regional organisation, completing projects that support causes you care about, or volunteering at the University or Students' Union.
Use your free time to volunteer with a charity or a cause you care about.
Whether you want to help a local, regional or national charity there a plenty of chances to get involved as you study — some students even produce coursework that supports the charities they work with.
Become a Course Representative and take the opinions of your peers to the Students' Union and University.
Get to know students from your course and department, and be a part of making change at Portsmouth.
Become a committee member in a society or club with the Students' Union.
Most groups have roles like President, Treasurer, Social Secretary and Media Officer — so you can get experience specific to your goals.
Our Volunteering Team supports around 100 local and national charities and not-for-profit organisations, including local theatres, schools, small community groups, social enterprises, the prison service, and the NHS.
The team also offer 1-to-1 support with finding and applying for opportunities.
You can discuss volunteering opportunities that match your interests, whether you want to volunteer somewhere new, match your university coursework to a local cause, or prepare for your future career.
I wanted to make the most of opportunities outside of my course, and got involved with the Volunteer Reading Scheme.
I spent an afternoon each week helping in a local primary school to support kids struggling with reading.
I really enjoyed this scheme and found it very rewarding, so I kept up my position at the same school for two years.
Hannah Coombs, PhD Literary Studies

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/careers-and-employment/student-startup-advice:
Gain the skills to build a business while you study
If you're looking to develop your entrepreneurial skills, get startup advice or build a business, we're here to help.
As one of our students or graduates you'll join an enterprising community – Portsmouth was named the UK's most entrepreneurial city in 2020 (Instant Offices).
You'll have access to student startup advice, as well as student enterprise and startup programmes to help you develop your business skills and understanding.
And you'll benefit from our business enterprise support, where you'll get advice from established businesses and experienced entrepreneurs.
We're available to help you while you're at uni and for up to 5 years after you graduate, so if you launch your startup during your studies we'll support you both during and after your degree.
Startups are companies that are just starting out or in the early stages of operating.
Usually run by an individual or a small group of entrepreneurs, startups are great opportunities for students to make an impact on the industry.
Startups have a business, product or service idea that they want to bring to market.
Our free startup support will help put you and your business in the best shape to succeed.
Our Student StartUp team can give you support including:
On many of our courses, you can use your placement year to set up your own business instead of completing a placement year with a company .
As a student on placement you'll have access to our startup support, including enterprise clinics and weekly appointments to discuss your business idea, and access support both in-person or online.
Your Faculty's placement office can give you advice, support and information on doing a self-employed placement year and what this means for your degree to help you decide.
Some universities might just educate you and send you off into the world, but Portsmouth did so much more for me.
Its Innovation Space helped me properly launch the idea, even becoming my first client, rolling the app out to over 700 students before referring me to Cardiff University to roll out there as well.
Vincent Pericard, BA (Hons) Business and Enterprise Development
We offer free business advice for startups through a range of programmes, whether you're a current student or graduate.
These programmes give you enterprise skills, small business support, networking opportunities, and more — no matter what stage of the business journey you're in.
Innovation Connect offers business support, guidance and shared office space across the city.
We can also introduce you to new and exciting local companies and startups, as well as to business networks such as the Female Entrepreneurs Network.
Discover Innovation Connect
Our Entrepreneurs Society is run by students as part of the Students' Union.
The society is a space to network with like-minded students, listen to business owners’ experiences, or even starting a venture of your own.
Meet the society
Enactus Portsmouth is a non-profit student-led organisation, within the University of Portsmouth and part of the wider community of Enactus UK.
We aim to make a difference within the local community and wider society, by setting up social enterprises which tackle issues in and around Portsmouth.
Find out more more
Many courses across our Faculty of Business and Law offer our business consultancy project in your final year, where you'll take part in business consultancy projects for local business and charities.
As part of a small team, you'll investigate specific business challenges or opportunities and produce a report that offers practical solutions to the company.
This project combines research with training and mentoring for female entrepreneurs.
You can join if you have a business idea, or if you've already set up your business.
We're working to address the gender gap in entrepreneurship by helping women overcome the barriers they face when starting and growing businesses.
Explore our courses and projects
We support current and aspiring female business owners and welcome all women with an interest in enterprise and entrepreneurship.
We have an active Facebook group to connect local female-led businesses, and run monthly networking events to practice your networking skills as well as guest talks and mini-training sessions.
Meet the network
Meet some of our student startups.
16 February 2023

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/finance-and-money-support:
Taking responsibility for your finances is a big step, but our Student Finance Centre is here to help
When you go to uni, it's natural to have concerns about money.
You might be wondering about the cost of living, how to fund your studies or how to manage your money if it's your first time living away from home.
At Portsmouth, our finance team is dedicated to helping you manage your finances and access the funding you need throughout your studies.
Whether you need help applying for funding or managing your finances, we've got you covered.
Our student finance centre offers expert advice on a range of topics, including student loans, bursaries, funding applications, budgeting, state benefits, and debt management.
Our advisers are members of professional bodies, ensuring confidential and professional support, where we'll always put your needs first.
Explore our guidance below on topics including tuition fees, scholarships, cost of living support and more.
We understand that unexpected financial difficulties put a strain on your ability to focus on your studies.
So if you get into financial difficulty while studying with us or need emergency help to pay living costs, you can apply for help from our University Support Fund – once you're a registered undergraduate or postgraduate taught student.
You can request an application form by emailing studentfinance@port.ac.uk .
For more information, read our application guidance notes .
You'll be asked for:
Our team may contact you if we need to discuss your application further.
A successful award is usually paid by electronic bank transfer.
If your application is unsuccessful and you're unhappy with the outcome, there is a review procedure.
To find out more, email our team studentfinance@port.ac.uk .
We're here for you from when you start thinking about coming to uni to when you graduate.
We can support you with a range of issues, from information about student loans, bursaries and applications to money management and cost of living support.
If you need help from the Student Finance Team you can email us at studentfinance@port.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0) 2392 843014 .
Student Finance Centre University House Portsmouth PO1 2UP
Visit us

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-care-leavers:
See what's available if you've spent time in care
Going to university is exciting, but it can be daunting too.
And if you've spent time in care, you might find it more difficult to enter higher education.
For care leavers going to university, accessing the right support during your degree journey helps you prepare to succeed from the moment you apply.
We can make it easier for you to access the support and funding you need when you apply — and you'll get ongoing personal and financial support during your course so you can concentrate on your studies.
We've signed up to the Care Leaver Covenant – a pledge to provide support for care leavers.
To get care leaver support, you just need to declare your care status on your UCAS application.
If you haven't applied yet or you've already submitted your application, you can contact us to let us know you're a care leaver by email at independent@port.ac.uk or by phoning 023 9284 3076 .
We'll only use this information to give you the support you need — it won't affect how we assess your application.
Here's a summary of the help and support you'll get as a care leaver when you study with us.
We guarantee care leavers accommodation in a halls of residence all year round.
This means you don't have to worry about finding somewhere to live over the Christmas, Easter and summer holidays.
You'll need to cover the cost of your accommodation yourself, but you could apply for a Unite Scholarship to cover your halls fees.
This scholarship gives statutory Care Leavers or estranged students a free place in a Unite hall of residence for a maximum of 3 years, and is awarded by the Unite Foundation.
Full details are available online from the Unite Foundation .
There are a limited number of these scholarships, so not everyone who's eligible will be successful, but you can get this scholarship alongside the Stand Alone Bursary or Care Leavers Bursary.
Applications for 2024/25 have now closed.
Applications for 2025/26 are expected to open in January 2025.
It isn't based on your income and you don't need to pay this back.
An award of £1,700 a year if you’re a full-time undergraduate or postgraduate UK student and any of the following applies:
Recipients can also receive the University Bursary of £750 a year.
Students who are estranged from their parents (and have been assessed by Student Finance England as independent because of this) can apply for our Stand Alone bursary of £1,000 a year.
Please note you can only receive either the Care Leavers or the Stand Alone bursary.
You'll get a designated member of staff who'll advise and guide you on your support needs the whole time you're at university.
Our named adviser is Paula Bailey who can be contacted at independent@port.ac.uk
When you start your course, they'll make sure you have all the information you need to access the student support services including help with academic, disability and wellbeing needs.
Your designated advisor can also:
You'll receive a newsletter every term so you can stay up-to-date with opportunities and events to enhance your university experience.
As a care leaver, you're guaranteed an interview for a role as a University Student Ambassador.
Being a Student Ambassador is a great way to earn extra cash while promoting the benefits of university to prospective students.
You'll work at events such as Open Days and higher education fairs.
You'll also get priority status on our Careers and Employability Mentoring Scheme.
You'll get expert, tailored advice on getting a job and developing your career from our Careers and Employability service.
This advice is available throughout your course and for 5 years after you graduate.
You can get most of this care leaver support if you've lived in care at any stage of your life.
But one of the following will need to apply to you to access some of this support:
If you're unsure of your eligibility, we can check for you – contact us by email at i ndependent@port.ac.uk or phone us on 023 9284 3076 .
Get help with your next steps and hear from students with lived experiences of care and estrangement.
16 June 2021

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-estranged-students:
Support for you if you've lost touch with your parents
If you've lost touch with your parents, you might find it more difficult to get the personal and financial support you need at uni — so w e offer you additional help, guidance and support for estranged students.
If you're aged 18–24 and have had a breakdown in your relationship with your parents that's unlikely to change, you're considered an estranged student.
Around 40 estranged students take advantage of our help and support each year.
We're committed to support estranged students and are signed up to the Stand Alone Pledge .
To find out how to get support, contact us by email at independent@port.ac.uk or by phone on +44 (0)23 9284 30 76.
We'll only use this information to give you the support you need — it will not affect how we assess your university application.
Here's a summary of the help and support you'll get as an estranged student when you study with us.
You can also contact us for help and support during your application, even if we're not your first-choice uni.
We guarantee estranged students accommodation in a halls of residence all year round.
This scholarship gives statutory Care Leavers or estranged students a free place in a Unite hall of residence for a maximum of 3 years, awarded by the Unite Foundation.
There are a limited number of these scholarships, so not everyone who's eligible will be successful, but you can get this scholarship alongside the Stand Alone Bursary or Care Leavers Bursary.
Contact our Student Finance Centre for more information.
You could get a Stand Alone Bursary of £1,000 to help you cover your study costs.
This bursary is not based on your income and you don't need to pay it back.
You might not be able to get this bursary alongside some of our other bursaries and scholarships , but we'll help you understand which scholarships and bursaries are best for you.
Our named adviser is Paula Bailey who can be contacted at independent@port.ac.uk .
You'll receive a newsletter every term so you can stay up-to-date with opportunities and events to enhance your university experience
Other students have, like their parents, come down, help them move out, help them move in, give them money when they've run out of their loan and they've got somewhere to go for Christmas, I don't.
In a word, being an estranged student is hard.
Wellbeing are amazing, honestly.
So I think coming to uni is great, because you've also got all of the support services available and you can make friends.
(singing) I'm part of show choir and I know that if anything were to happen, I can go to them.
You don't want a formal wellbeing thing, you just want a hug.
I know that if I walked into choir and I needed a hug, I've got about 20 people who are going to form a line.
We like to support every student who has the capability of succeeding at university.
And we know we're aware that estranged students have particular challenges that they have to face.
And of course, naturally, we'd want to help them in every way we can.
And so we provide a bursary of a £1000 because we're also aware that they unlike other students, will want to stay for the whole year at the university, which we like to help them with.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-people-seeking-sanctuary:
Discover the support you can get if you're seeking sanctuary
We're committed to providing equal opportunities to higher education for people seeking sanctuary.
This page highlights the support we can give you to help you achieve your ambitions and meet your full potential.
The Sanctuary Scholarship is for students seeking asylum.
It covers all of your tuition fees for each year of your undergraduate (Bachelor's) degree, plus personal and financial support.
This scholarship It isn't based on your income and you don't need to pay it back.
Sanctuary scholarship
If you need to improve your English skills before starting your undergraduate degree with us, you could get a free place on a pre-sessional English course .
Our pre-sessional English language courses are available on campus or through distance learning.
Sanctuary language bursary
A designated member of staff will advise and guide you on your support needs during your time at university.
Your designated adviser can also:
To find out how to get support if you're seeking sanctuary, contact us by email at sanctuary@port.ac.uk or by phone on +44 (0) 2392 843072 .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students:
This toolkit is the result of a collaboration between the Autism Centre for Research on Employment at the University of Portsmouth and Autism&Uni at Leeds Beckett University.
This Autism at University toolkit is not merely informational, it is a toolkit to help you make the most of your time at University.
It is based on the following principles:
The full Autism&Uni toolkit also includes information about relevant facilities, people, services and buildings at a specific university.
To find out whether your university has adopted the toolkit or to enquire about adopting it, contact m.fabri@leedsbeckett.ac.uk .
The links below give you useful information to consider before you apply to university, as well as what to expect in classes once you arrive.
For more support for current students, including study tips and wellbeing advice, check out the MyPort Autism Toolkit below.
We would really value any feedback on this toolkit to help us to improve it.
Provide feedback on the toolkit .
This toolkit is an adaptation of the Autism&Uni project led by Marc Fabri from Leeds Beckett University, under license CC BY 4.0 .
The original Autism&Uni project was funded with support from the European Commission with partners in the UK, Finland, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain.
For more information about this project please visit the Autism&Uni website .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-students-with-caring-responsibilities:
How to balance study and personal growth when you're a primary carer
Having caring responsibilities doesn't mean that uni is out of reach for you — we offer plenty of support, guidance and flexibility, so you can succeed in your studies while providing care for someone.
According to the 2011 census, there are over 6.5 million carers in the UK and around 375,000 of them are young carers between 16 and 25 years old .
There are many benefits of studying as a carer — and earning a degree while caring for someone can be a really rewarding opportunity.
As part of your studies you'll develop new skills and knowledge, meet new people, gain a fresh perspective on new topics, and have the opportunity to work towards a qualification that could prepare you for a career in another field in the future.
To find out how to get support, contact us by email at studentfinance@port.ac.uk or by phone on +44 (0)23 9284 3014 .
We'll only use this information to give you the support you need – it won't affect how we assess your university application.
A carer is anyone who cares, paid or unpaid, for a friend or family member who due to illness, disability, mental health condition or addiction cannot cope without their support (Care's Trust, 2017).
The care you provide may be short-term, like supporting someone's recovery after an injury or accident, or long-term like supporting a person with a disability, illness or other ongoing condition.
This title doesn't include a parent caring for their child unless they have a learning difference, mental health condition or physical disability.
A government-recognised carer is a person who cares for someone for at least 35 hours a week and is eligible for or receives Carer's Allowance or Carer's Credit.
If you're receiving Carer's Allowance you can only study up to 21 hours a week including classes, lectures, tutorials, seminars and the independent study expected by the university.
If you study more than this it may impact your eligibility for Carer's Allowance.
You may want to consider studying a course part-time or online by distance learning .
If you have questions about receiving a carer payment and studying you can find out more on the government website or contact our Student Finance Centre for more information.
It's up to you when – and if – you tell us about your caring responsibilities.
Whenever you feel comfortable you can talk to us about your situation, and we can start offering you the support you need.
Balancing your budget while studying can be tricky for most students.
Studying when you have caring responsibilities means you may have a few more things to juggle than others.
We can give you financial guidance and support to help you manage your money.
Our Student Finance Centre can give you guidance on loans and bursaries like the Young Carer's Bursary, support with funding applications and government benefits as well as help with your personal personal money management.
You won't be able to get this bursary alongside the Care Leavers Bursary or the Stand Alone Bursary, but you can also receive the University Bursary.
Contact our Student Finance Centre by email at studentfinance@port.ac.uk or by phone on +44 (0)23 9284 3014 to apply for this bursary.
If you're caring you might run on a different timetable or study load so you can still meet your caring responsibilities.
If you choose to tell you your lecturers or personal tutor that you're a carer, they can offer you more flexibility so you can stay on top of everything such as directed you to resources online if you have to miss a class, or negotiating deadlines on your assessments.
They can also signpost you to dedicated services to make sure you're supported in the best way possible.
At Portsmouth, our learning support tutors can help with your coursework, managing your workload and other study skills that will be helpful.
Managing your caring responsibilities and coursework might mean you have less time to catch up with friends, chill out or exercise.
But keeping happy and healthy is important to staying on top of everything.
When you start uni you'll be paired up with a personal tutor who can offer guidance and support every step of the way.
You can also access other health and wellbeing support such as 1-to-1 sessions with counsellors and workshops to help you manage your emotions.
Sometimes you might look to charity and non-profit organisations for some help.
That support might look like speaking with someone about challenges you face, help organising alternative care or group social activities for carers.
Helpful organisations you can contact include:
You could tell us about your caring responsibilities in your personal statement, or give us a call after you apply.
It's your choice whether you want to tell us about your caring responsibilities when you apply — but if you do it can help us make sure we've got all the support in place you need to start your studies.
During your application you can highlight how being a carer has helped you develop valuable skills, or how being a carer makes you a great fit for your course, which will help us better understand your story and your potential to succeed.
When you're thinking about studying with us there are a few important things to consider:
Studying with caring responsibilities means you may have some additional things to consider during your degree.
Explore our advice to prepare for your degree and find out what support is available before you get here.
Everyone's studies are different, but we're here to help you throughout the process.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/advice-for-mature-students:
A degree can prepare for your next career move or launch you in an exciting new direction
What is a mature student?
| How to apply | A pplying for student finance | S tudent life
Getting a degree is something you can achieve at any stage of your life.
Choose Portsmouth and you'll be part of a thriving mature student community – more than a quarter of our students are 'mature' when they start their course.
Returning to education can unlock exciting opportunities.
Whether you're wanting to change career, boost your job prospects, or learn about a subject alongside like-minded students, going to uni can be one of the best decisions you can make for your future.
A mature student is anyone going to university who is over 21 years of age at their beginning of their undergraduate course, or 25 at the beginning of their postgraduate course.
If that's you, you might already be in work, or have other commitments to consider.
At Portsmouth, many of our courses have part-time or flexible study options, so you can fit your studies in with your lifestyle.
Find out why mature students choose to study at the University of Portsmouth.
It's never to late to study what you love.
[It's never too late to study what you love]
[Meet Caroline]
Caroline: After having a family, I decided to return to education.
The lecturers are so helpful, they want to help you and see you succeed.
It's changed me as a person and enriched my life.
[What will your Portsmouth be like?]
[Find out more]
I’m a mature student, 58, and decided to challenge myself.
I didn’t get the opportunity when I was younger.
I am the first in my family to go to uni.
It’s never too late.
I chose Portsmouth because of family commitments but it was the best decision.
Mandy Bentley, BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics
When choosing what to study, we have various courses to fit your needs and to give you flexibility to achieve a degree in a way that fits your lifestyle and commitments.
You can study part-time for lots of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and we also offer online degrees and distance learning courses to give you greater flexibility.
You could also study a work-based degree so you can work full-time and tailor your course to your employer's objectives.
When you study part-time, online or at work, you'll always receive the same high-level of support we give to all students.
They didn’t just look at my grades, they looked at me, the person behind them.
That personal approach was so important – I knew I’d made the right choice.
You'll find our entry requirements on every course page.
But as a mature student, we understand you might have different academic qualifications as students who just left college.
We accept various qualifications on our courses and can potentially take other factors into account such as your work experience.
Our decisions are never based purely on exam results – we consider every factor that we believe showcases your excellence and potential when we assess your application.
If you need extra qualifications to meet entry requirements, you can take an A Level or BTEC qualification at any age as a mature student.
Check with your local colleges to see if they take applications from mature students, or you might find your chosen A Level can be taught online.
If you already have A Levels, but you don't think your grades are good enough, you could take a course with a foundation year .
A foundation year will give you the skills to get back into your studies, and often have more attainable entry requirements.
If you're planning to join us from another country, most undergraduate courses require between 24 and 31 points in the International Baccalaureate (IB), depending on the degree you apply for.
Find out more about the qualifications we accept from your country .
If you don't meet the entry requirements for an undergraduate or postgraduate course, you can do a foundation or first-year degree programme or a pre-Master's programme at International College Portsmouth (ICP) for many of our courses.
There's no upper age limit for applying for student loans from Student Finance and you may be eligible for additional scholarships.
As a mature student, you can apply to Student Finance for a tuition fee loan for your undergraduate or postgraduate degree in the same way as any other student.
Your undergraduate tuition fee loan is paid directly to the University, while a postgraduate tuition fee loan is paid directly to you.
If you're over 25, your parents' income isn't considered when your maintenance loan allowance is allocated.
However, if you're married, in a civil partnership or living with a partner then your partner's income will be taken into account.
If you're over 60 years old at the start of your undergraduate course, you can only get a smaller maintenance loan, which is based on your income.
Find out more about applying for a student loan or maintenance loan from student finance.
We also offer various scholarships and bursaries that could help cut the cost of your studies and reduce your student loans.
Get more information
If you have children or support a dependent adult who has no income of their own, you can apply for additional support.
This could include the Parents Learning Allowance, the Adult Dependants' Grant, the Childcare Grant or Universal Credit.
Find out how to apply:
You usually can't get finance from Student Finance England if you've already studied for a degree, even if you didn't complete your degree.
If you're planning to study a second undergraduate degree, you may still be eligible for the University of Portsmouth Bursary .
Alternatively, you might be eligible to apply for one of our postgraduate courses using the funding outlined above.
Find out more about student finance eligibility .
Because I was finally studying a course I appreciated, I relished the opportunity to take on extracurricular activities like becoming a course rep and working with the University in organising events.
With the support from all my lecturers, I was able to balance these activities as well as a degree I felt truly passionate about.
Coline Lejeune, BA (Hons) Film Industries
At Portsmouth, you'll find all the resources and support you need to get started on this new chapter in your life.
When you join us, you'll be assigned a personal tutor.
They're available for personal and academic support and can signpost you to learning and academic support services such as the faculty learning support tutors.
You can also take advantage of our study skills resources before your course starts, so you can familiarise yourself with the practical elements of study.
Balancing studies with your lifestyle is an additional challenge for mature students – especially if you plan to study alongside work or have a family to care for.
We have plenty of resources to help you plan your time and embrace your new student lifestyle:
When you receive an offer from us and accept us as your firm choice, you're entitled to a guaranteed room in our halls (deadlines apply).
Our shared halls are all in the centre of Portsmouth, and all bills are included along with free WiFi and broadband.
If you're hoping for a quieter experience than student halls usually offer, you can request to be placed in a quiet zone when you apply for accommodation.
We try to accommodate every request.
If you want the benefit of living in the centre of Portsmouth but would prefer a bit more privacy, we also have studio flats within our halls.
If you want more control over where you live and who you live with, see our guide to private renting in Portsmouth .
When you rent privately, you can choose who you live with, bring your family or lodge.
See more accommodation options in our guide to where to live at uni .
Unsure of the difference between a Bachelor's degree and HNC?
Curious about what an MBA is, or what an LLB is for?
Make sense of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees and awards with this simple guide.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/coming-to-uni/making-friends-at-uni:
A big part of settling in at university is meeting new people and making friends.
When you arrive, you'll get plenty of help – from the University and the Students' Union – to make friends.
Your first couple of weeks will be full of events to help you meet people.
At Freshers' Fair, you'll find out about clubs and societies where you can meet students with similar interests.
Whatever you're studying, you'll meet people with different interests and hobbies who'll become close friends.
You could meet them in your halls, on your course or in the local community.
They'll make up your new social and support network.
A lot of other students will be trying to meet people and make new friends when they arrive at university.
Feeling nervous is normal and it helps to remember that other people are in the same boat as you – bear that in mind, and it'll give you the confidence to make the first move.
Your accommodation is one of the first places you'll meet new people when you arrive at uni.
Our halls of residence are buzzing every September with everybody hoping to make new friends.
If you're in private accommodation, you're likely to have housemates who'll want to chat and get to know you.
When you're in your room, leave your door open so you can say hello to housemates as they walk past.
It's more welcoming than keeping it closed and housemates are more likely to say hi through an open door than knock on a closed one.
Find opportunities to talk to your new roomies.
If you see a new housemate struggling to carry their stuff in, offer to help carry their belongings.
You'll probably strike up a conversation and might make your first friend.
Once you've met people in your accommodation, you could offer to cook a meal, suggest going out as a group, walk with them to lectures or organise a weekend day trip.
Freshers' Week will give you many opportunities to meet people at uni, with lots of events taking place all week.
You'll meet sports clubs and societies who are recruiting new students and want to meet you.
Keep an eye on the Students' Union website for freshers events and ask your housemates if they're attending any you might like.
You'll get to talk to some of our welcome ambassadors – current students who can share their experiences of uni.
If you want advice before you arrive at Portsmouth, you can ask questions to our welcome ambassadors on Facebook and Instagram .
After the dust settles from Freshers' Week, keep an eye on the university and Students' Union website for other events, especially in your first few weeks.
You could meet like-minded people attending the same guest lectures, at a networking lunch or on a pub crawl.
When at an event, talk to different people as well as the ones you arrived with.
If you stay in the same group, other people might think you're not open to making new friends.
You're at uni to get a degree, but classes are also a great way to meet new people and make friends.
Instead of sitting alone during lectures, ask if you can sit next to someone.
When you get to your seminars, sit at group tables with other students.
The time before the lecturer arrives is the perfect opportunity to introduce yourself and learn new names.
You might start to see the same faces at lectures.
When this happens, ask them if they want to grab a coffee after class instead of heading straight home.
You can also see if anyone wants to set up a library study group so you can bounce ideas off each other, rather than going home to study on your own.
When you start university, you'll automatically become a member of the Students' Union.
Visit the Union website and see if there are any societies or sports teams that interest you.
Sign up for something you're interested in even if you have little experience.
Most groups welcome beginners.
If you want to play competitive sport, you can join an official sports club that takes part in competitions.
Team sports are an ideal way to make friends.
Being part of a society is always fun and a great way to make friends.
I was part of the Arts and Crafts Society, where we met once a week and did different crafts, talked and relaxed.
I also took part in the student associate scheme where I volunteered in a primary school twice a week for a while.
Volunteering in the local community is another great way to meet new people.
Volunteering can also help you add valuable experiences to your CV.
When you volunteer, you'll contribute to local causes you're passionate about and meet other people with the same interests.
One way to meet new people at uni is to ask current friends if they know anyone who already goes to your uni.
The best thing about meeting a friend of a friend is that you already have your current friend in common.
Put a post up on social media when you arrive at uni, asking if anyone knows anyone at your uni or living in your city.
Once you start meeting people at uni, there are a few methods that make it easier to make friends:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/coming-to-uni/balancing-part-time-study-with-full-time-work:
Strategies and advice on making full-time work and part-time study fit together
Returning to study when you work full-time might seem like a daunting prospect.
Finding time to focus on study, managing your workload and keeping a healthy lifestyle are some of the challenges you could face.
But it is possible to balance full-time work with part-time study.
We've put together these strategies and tips to help you excel in your studies and your career.
Plan out your workload at the start of each term so you're on top of your time from the off.
Map out your class times and assignment deadlines and organise them into a calendar.
Then work out the time you need to do independent study such as reading, coursework and project prep.
Schedule this in your calendar with your work and other life commitments so you can see how everything fits in.
Once you've planned your workload, set time aside each week to plan your study sessions.
To map this out, ask yourself questions like:
Training yourself into working at the same times each week can be a massive help.
While forming the habit may take some time, with practice you'll find yourself getting on with it and procrastinating less.
Depending on how you get to work, studying during your commute is worth considering.
If you're travelling by train or bus you could catch up on essential readings on your phone, tablet or laptop on the journey.
It's worth checking out your employer's study policies and speaking with your manager to see how they can best support you.
Some of the things worth discussing include:
If you're doing a work-based degree or degree apprenticeship, you'll likely already have support from your employer.
If you don't have their support yet, highlight how you'll use the skills and knowledge you develop to become more effective in your role.
If you're clever with your annual leave you can maximise your study time.
Look at your key deadlines, and book time off in advance to prepare your assessments or revise for exams.
You can also combine public holidays with weekends and annual leave to give you a few days of focused study time.
Plonking yourself down for 8 hours straight doesn't always mean 8 hours of productive study.
Separate your study into smaller chunks, and work in short sharp bursts with breaks to use your mental energy more effectively.
Chunking your study time also helps you fit it into a busy schedule, allowing you to study when you only have a short window, say on your lunch break or first thing in the morning.
Setting yourself mammoth tasks with too little time likely leads to falling short and losing motivation.
Learn what you can realistically achieve in the early days of your study and set milestones based on that.
Crossing out those milestones is a great motivator.
Is there any way you can find extra time in your day to study?
Getting up earlier in the morning gives you some extra time to revise, catch up on reading, or prep for revision during your commute.
You could also chat with your manager to see if it's possible to compact your work hours – for example by working full-time hours over 4 days rather than 5 days – to give you a full day of focused study time.
Another way to find more time to study is eliminating unnecessary tasks like browsing social media or watching TV.
That time you spend mindlessly scrolling your social feeds soon adds up, and watching one less episode of your favourite box set every evening will give you a chunk of time to study.
When you're studying and working full-time, your relationships with the people close to you might change.
It's important to make sure you stay connected with family and friends.
But it's worth discussing how these might be affected temporarily while you're studying.
Getting to know other students on your course, and staying in regular contact with them, can be really motivating.
You can share ideas and be there to support each other when one of you is struggling.
Meet up with your classmates for study sessions if they live close to you, or online through video call apps.
Some courses will also have an online forum for students to chat, share ideas and ask questions – so make the most of this.
It can be difficult to concentrate on your study when you're balancing it with work and home life.
So getting yourself into the right mindset is key for a productive study session.
You could listen to instrumental music or a white noise app as a signal to yourself that you're in study mode.
When you're struggling with motivation to study, remind yourself why you chose to do the course.
Think about the benefits your course will bring you once you complete it and where it could lead you afterwards.
A dedicated study space will help get you into study mode.
This could be a separate study, your kitchen or dining table, a library or your local coffee shop.
Or make use of your university's study spaces.
You could also ask your employer if you can come into the office early or stay later to use your work computer and have a quiet space to study.
This could be a great solution if you have a family at home.
It can be easier to stay at the office for an hour or two after work, knowing you can relax when you get home and the rest of the evening is free.
(If you do this, make sure to take regular breaks away from your desk.)
It's difficult to focus when you're distracted.
And distractions pop up in the most unlikely places.
To avoid the temptation to check your phone while you're studying, put on silent or 'do not disturb' or leave it in another room.
When you're on a computer, use free apps such as Self Control or Cold Turkey to put limits on the time you spend on social media or websites not related to your study.
If you live with others make sure they know not to disturb you when you're studying.
And try to avoid getting distracted by those jobs around the house.
Put things like housework in your planner, alongside study and other commitments or find somewhere quiet away from home to study.
Despite your best intentions, you might run into competing crunch times from work and study.
If this happens, don't be afraid to ask for help.
You can ask your tutors or support staff for help with academic and course-based work.
Universities often offer health and wellbeing and academic support to manage the work and study balance too.
If a high workload in your job is causing issues, speak with your employer.
Is there any way you can negotiate deadlines so they fall when you're not so busy with study or any extra support you can get?
It's important to acknowledge that you're not just learning new skills and knowledge, but learning a new routine too.
Most people won't get work-study balance right from the get go.
It'll take time to figure out a way that fits your lifestyle.
Make sure you're aware of the course guidelines so if you miss a deadline or can't sit an exam you know what your options are.
For example, you might be able to defer one of your modules resit an exam in certain circumstances.
When you're studying and working, it's important not to forget about your health.
Set time to step away from work and study every few hours.
Activities that don't involve your brain processing information help you switch off and rejuvenate.
You could go for a walk, catch up on a box set or simply write in a journal.
Eating well is also key to staying healthy.
With a more compressed schedule, you might be tempted to just grab a ready meal or takeaway, especially around big deadlines or exams.
This is OK every now and then, but it's important to eat healthy, nutritious food.
Without it, your body and your brain don't have what they need to keep you at your best.
Keeping fit helps keep you healthy and on track with work and study.
As well as being good for your general health, exercise releases endorphins which help you destress, clear your mind, and stimulate your brain.
Whether it's hitting the gym, a spot of yoga or kicking a ball with some friends, exercise is a welcome break that can keep you going or get you back into gear during a rough spot.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/coming-to-uni/living-at-home-while-studying:
You won't be missing out
You don't have to move away from home to go to university.
You can stay at home and just go to uni for lectures or to use the library, or you could take a distance learning course.
There are lots of advantages to living at home while you study.
Whether you're studying via distance learning or living away from campus and traveling to uni for your lecturers and seminars, you need to consider how you'll study during your course.
Research how you'll get to campus.
You could travel by:
Maps and directions
It's easy to feel like you're missing out on the full university experience when you're living at home, but it doesn't have to be that way.
You can still make the most of freshers' week, meet new people, join clubs and societies, use campus facilities, and more.
Great ways to meet people:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/coming-to-uni/coming-to-uni-with-a-family:
Settle into campus life and your university studies with your family beside you
Going to university is an enriching experience for you and your family – and having your children with you while you work towards your degree can make your uni years even more special.
As a student-parent, you'll have a few extra things to consider, compared to many of your classmates.
At your uni, you should find the support and facilities you need to succeed in your studies, while fulfilling your family responsibilities.
Before coming to uni, there are a few things you should look into – such as where you plan to live, who will look after your children while you're in class and how you'll fund your studies.
University halls can be a busy place to live.
Some universities offer family halls but you might find private accommodation offers you more comfort and space than living on campus – particularly if you have a baby or small child to care for.
When looking for accommodation for your family, consider:
Our house hunting guide is a great place to start when looking for the perfect new home for your family.
Also take a look at our guide to moving into private accommodation during coronavirus for advice on how to keep your home clean for your family.
Opening hours
Our normal operating hours are 8.30am to 5.30pm.
As a student with dependent children, make sure you know what extra funding is available to you.
You can apply for the Parents Learning Allowance and the Childcare Grant at the same time you apply for your tuition fee and maintenance loans through Student Finance England.
You don't have to pay either grant back, so it won't affect your income once you graduate.
The Childcare Grant will go directly to your childcare provider and if you're eligible for the Parents Learning Allowance it will be paid into your bank account in 3 instalments during the academic year.
Discover financial support for students with dependents
Once you've registered on your new course, it's time to get settled into life at university with your family.
Your support network is a group of people from across the university – including friends, lecturers and support staff – who you can turn to when you need help.
They might include:
When you start uni you'll get a personal tutor who's there to guide you when you need advice.
They'll be an academic member of staff but they'll also be well-connected to services across the university, so they should be the first person you talk to if you're having difficulties.
If you mentioned your family in your personal statement, they might already know you're coming to uni with children and can support you with this in mind.
You can go to them with anything you need – including academic issues, financial struggles, health-related worries or worries about studying as a parent.
If your personal tutor can't help you directly, they'll direct you to other university services whenever you need them.
All universities have guidance and support services including counsellors, careers advisers, disability advisers, and immigration, housing, money and welfare specialists.
If you find you're struggling to focus on your studies and care for your family there are learning and academic support services who can give you the skills to manage your workload.
Health and wellbeing support services and the university chaplaincy can support you if you're feeling overwhelmed.
And your student finance centre are available to help you make the most of your family budget.
All our guidance and support services can offer face-to-face support if needed, and support over the phone or online.
Get to know your lecturers at the start of your course and let them know you're studying while raising a family.
Knowing that your lecturers understand your responsibilities will take a huge weight off you if you need to miss class or leave early to support your children.
You'll also have a virtual learning environment where you can catch up on recorded classes you might miss.
Ask your lecturers where to find the virtual learning environment for their course and discuss suitable arrangements for catching up on your studies if you need to.
Remember, they want you to succeed.
Getting around campus takes a little bit of extra consideration when you have a family, especially if you need to keep a car close-by for school runs.
Most universities are in cities with great public transport links and many universities run their own free bus service for students.
Talk to your uni to find out if your children can also ride for free.
If you're planning to travel with your family on public transport, see our guide to getting around campus safely .
If you need to use a pram to get around campus with your family, explore our accessibility profile to find out where lifts and ramps are available in all our buildings.
At Portsmouth, we encourage all students to be sustainable and use public transport or cycle where possible.
But we understand this might not always be possible if you have a family, especially if you need easy access to schools or campus from home.
If you need to keep a car on campus, contact the university estates service to find out about available parking spaces.
You'll likely have to buy a parking permit, so factor this into your uni budget.
Make the most out of the experience by exploring your new home together.
Wherever you choose to study, there'll be times when you're not studying and when the kids aren't at school – so take the time to discover places where you can all have fun outside in your city.
If you're coming to Portsmouth you'll find so many natural spaces to enjoy as a family.
Take an afternoon off to spend on the beach, have a BBQ on Southsea common or enjoy the rides and amusement arcades on South Parade and Clarence piers.
And no matter where you choose to live on our island, you'll be sure to find a park close by, whether it's one of our smaller parks tucked away behind residential streets or a big park with plenty of room to play like Canoe Lake or Milton Common.
If you need a family activity on a rainy day, Portsmouth is full of fun art galleries and museums with plenty of activities for kids.
Independent artists also run workshops across the city where your children can paint their own ceramics, make paper crafts, learn to crochet or go on a photo walk with their friends.
Explore our life outside study section to find out about all of this and more for you and your family to enjoy in Portsmouth.
If you're planning on moving to university from a country outside the UK, you'll need to apply for visas for your children or spouse to join you.
You can bring your family to University in the UK if:
You'll want to get your family's visa process started as soon as possible before you come to the UK and also find places for your children in local schools and nurseries.
The sooner you prepare, the easier the transition will be.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) has a full guide to bringing your family to the UK and our International Team have further visa information .
Depending on where you're travelling from, all members of your family entering the UK and yourself may have to self-isolate according to the government's guide to entering the UK .
Regardless of where you travel from, you'll also need to provide your journey and contact details by completing the passenger locator form within 48 hours before your time of travel.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/life-on-campus/studying-on-campus:
Explore the many spots around campus where you can study
From the University library to one of our many on-campus cafes , find out more about where to go when you need to concentrate on an assignment.
The University Library is a central space for study, research and support.
There are meeting pods, tables across the floors for solo work, and plenty of open access computers.
There is currently a booking system in operation in the Library for study spaces.
Our Students' Union building Third Space – a casual, open plan area that's perfect for a spot of relaxed studying.
As well as these, there are lots of spots across campus buildings where you can sit and work:
What is sharing?

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/school-leavers-hub-registration:
Advice on study skills, subjects and decisions at post-16
There are many exciting opportunities waiting for you at post-16, even if you're undecided about going to uni one day.
Here in the School Leavers' Hub, you'll find advice on pathways, study skills, choosing subjects and life at university.
Sign in below.
Explore your options, then choose what's right for your future.
If you're looking for some extra help with planning your next steps at post-16, look no further than the School Leavers' Hub.
Video showing what you can access when you register for our School Leavers' Hub – tips to decide your next steps, advice and support, career guidance and what student life is really like.
No dialogue.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/how-is-uni-different-to-school-and-college:
Our guide on how university will differ from your time at school and college
If you’re in your last years of school, or studying at college, you may have already started thinking about whether you’d like to go to university.
Going to university can be a big change so it’s good to be aware of all the things that make it different from school.
Then, if you do decide to go, you can adapt quickly and make the most out of your experience.
From the way you learn, to the increased independence you’ll get, university can take a while to get used to, but by thinking ahead you can make the transition a lot easier.
We’ll talk you through all of the differences between school or college and university to help you decide if university is the right fit for you, and to prove that it’s not as scary as you may think.
The most important thing to remember while reading this article is ‘Would this work for me?’.
University may not always be the best choice for you, and that’s ok.
We want to help you make the right decision for you.
Teaching at uni
Where you'll live
Life outside of uni
The main difference with university from school and college is the way that you’re taught.
Compared to school, you’ll have a lot more independence at university.
At school you have a set curriculum that you follow, you don’t get any choice in the subjects you learn about until you choose your GCSEs.
At university you choose the course you want to study straight away.
This is a great opportunity to pick a subject that you really enjoy and want to focus on.
After you finish your 1st year you’ll usually get the chance to choose your classes and the specific topics you want to study.
You’re probably used to having a weekly timetable with lessons all day from Monday to Friday.
In University your schedule will be very different.
You’ll have fewer scheduled lessons during the week.
You may also have long breaks between your lessons, or even a whole day off.
In years 2 and 3 of your degree you'll get even more free time, but you'll be expected to do a lot more independent study.
At school and college you’ll have the same teacher for a whole lesson, in a classroom, who gives you a lot of help and support.
At university you’ll have more teachers, who are called lecturers, for each of your lessons.
You also won’t be learning in a classroom.
At university you’ll have a mixture of lectures and seminars.
Lectures can be class sizes of up to 200  students with 1 teacher.
This is where you learn the majority of the course information.
You’ll then have seminars with groups of around 5 – 30 students with 1 teacher where you’re able to ask questions and work through activities based on what you learnt in the lecture.
You'll also start to do more learning online.
We use an online learning platform called Moodle where you can access course information and recorded lectures.
You won’t get any set homework at university, but you’ll have deadlines to complete assignments and essays throughout the year.
You'll be expected to do a lot of independent work at home to prepare for these assignments, so it’s important to make sure that you manage your time well.
Although you'll be doing a lot of work independently, you'll still be able to get plenty of help.
At the university we have personal tutors and support staff who can offer you academic skills support, library support, IT and computing help, Maths help and much more.
Find out more about the learning and academic support we offer our students.
One big difference you’ll notice is that you no longer have to wear a uniform.
You can wear any of your own clothes you like.
A university campus will be a lot bigger than your school or college.
This will mean you may have to walk quite far in between lectures and seminars.
At Portsmouth we have a city campus, this means our academic buildings are across the city and not all in 1 place.
At school you may have access to a small library and limited facilities for sport and learning.
At university you’ll be on a campus that has almost everything you could need to make the most out of your life at Uni.
We are aware that this H5P component is not fully accessible.
If you would like a copy of this item, please email websupport@port.ac.uk .
Please also refer to our Accessibility Statement
One of the scary, but exciting, changes about starting University is the thought of moving away from home .
For a lot of people this will be their first experience of not living with their parents.
Living on your own means a lot more freedom, but also a lot more responsibility.
You’ll have to cook and clean for yourself, as well having to manage your own time and schedule.
Unlike living with your parents at school and college, there’s no rules around when you can see your friends and go out at university.
It’s up to you to make sensible decisions on when you should go out and when you should study.
You may also have to take on a part-time job to help pay for everything, which can be a lot to balance.
It’s important that you find a balance between studying, work and your social life to ensure you have the best experience possible.
At school you may have some after-school and sports clubs, but at university you have a lot more choice in how you spend your free time.
At universities we have societies, which are like after-school clubs but they’re run by students.
You also have the opportunity to go on social nights out with the people in your society, and compete in competitions.
At the University of Portsmouth we have over 150 societies, ranging from Football and Surf, to Self-Defence and the Harry Potter society.
At school you may have a guidance counsellor, or access to some career support in your final years.
At University we have an extensive range of support for students.
Whether you need help getting a placement, health and wellbeing support or financial support, we have people to help you.
If you need personal and emotional support we have a dedicated Student Wellbeing Service that offers 1-to-1 sessions and workshops throughout the year.
If you run into financial issues while at university, you'll be able to get lots of support in planning a way forward.
We also have a careers and employment team that will help you find a job, find work experience and voluntary opportunities or set up your own business.
You can find out more about the support we offer our students in our Guidance and Support pages .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/reasons-to-get-a-degree:
Discover the benefits of getting a degree and the opportunities you'll get at uni
Choosing to go to university is a big decision and a big investment in your future.
And you might be wondering if it's the right decision for you.
Going to uni can give you many opportunities, from boosting your career prospects to making new friends.
But if you're unsure whether you should get a degree or not, take a look at the many benefits going to uni can give you.
Getting a degree unlocks doors to exciting careers.
And you're more likely to get a job and a higher salary if you have a degree.
At Portsmouth, 94% of our students are in work and/or further study (HESA Graduate Outcomes Survey conducted in 2019/20).
University gives you lots of opportunities to gain work experience and improve your CV.
Depending on the course you choose, you could do a short work experience element or a year-long, paid placement in industry.
If getting work experience on your course is important to you, make sure to keep this in mind when searching for a course .
Find out more about work experience opportunities at Portsmouth .
Some universities offer help with setting up businesses, including offering mentoring programmes and networking opportunities.
So you could create your own start-up while you study.
Take a look at the startup help our students can get , and Vincent Pericard's story of starting a business as a student .
You'll pick up loads of useful, transferable skills at uni that will help you in whatever job you choose.
You'll get better at things like problem-solving, money-management, time-management and presenting.
You'll also have access to lots of resources and support to develop your skills.
International students from all over the world come to uni in the UK.
You'll get to meet them on your course, in societies and sports clubs, and socialising around campus.
Making friends from other countries will open your eyes to all kinds of new things like different cultures, music and food.
Uni is an opportunity before you start your career to travel abroad to work or study.
You could spend a summer overseas or go for a whole year of your course to another country.
You could learn a new language and you'll make memories for life.
Discover which countries you could go to on an exchange or study abroad programme when you're a student at Portsmouth.
At uni, you can explore a topic you're passionate about.
You don't have to study things you didn't enjoy in school or college.
You get to pick something that really excites you.
You get to choose your optional modules based on your interests.
And you get access to thousands of books, films and online journals so you can really dig deep into what you care about.
You'll be taught by lecturers who've worked or researched in the field you want to work in.
And you'll study with other students who have the same interests as you.
With thousands of students and hundreds of clubs and societies, you're bound to find an activity you'll enjoy at uni.
Universities and students' unions have sports teams and clubs where you can play a sport for fun or competitively.
You could take up a new sport or keep playing the sport you already love.
To get an idea of the sports clubs you could join, see our page on sport in Portsmouth .
If sports aren't your thing but you're keen to meet people into the same things as you, join one of the student societies.
You'll find everything from language societies, to board games, drama, dance, cookery and film.
You can get involved in the management of the society and develop skills like leadership, organisation management and communications.
And if you don't find a society that interests you, you can set one up yourself.
Find out more about societies at Portsmouth .
Going to uni might be your first time living away from your parents.
You'll learn how to manage your money, pay your bills, cook for yourself, possibly even do the laundry.
You'll be exposed to different ways of thinking and seeing the world.
And you'll grow your mind as an independent thinker.
If you want to gain independence and grow as an individual, uni could be the path for you.
It's ok to need a bit of extra support now and again.
And universities offer loads of support services.
We want to make sure you're happy and healthy at uni, so you can focus on your studies and enjoy yourself.
Whether you need help managing your money, finding a place to live or getting support with things like your mental health or learning differences, there's someone to help you at uni.
You'll also get access to careers support to help with finding part-time work, volunteering roles and a graduate job.
Careers support will also help with your CV and preparing for interviews.
And you can attend events to meet employers and pick up job-hunting skills.
Our Careers and Employability Service offer support from your first day at uni until 5 years after graduation.
Discover the support available to you at Portsmouth to see all the ways you can get support when you need it.
There are also lots of personal reasons people choose to go to uni.
If you're still not sure about getting a degree, ask yourself these questions:
Remember, going to uni isn't the only way to get a degree.
Take a look at some of the alternative ways to get a degree .
And if you're still unsure, we've got a guide to overcoming barriers such as worries about tuition fees and making friends.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/pathways-to-uni:
Find out the different ways you can go to uni, including what to do if you don't have A-levels
There's more than one way to get into university.
And you don't have to follow the traditional routes.
Once you know your options, you can choose the best route for you.
Learning about your options when you're at school can help you choose your subjects wisely and prepare for uni.
Depending which study pathway you choose you'll earn different qualifications, but they can all lead to university study.
Your path to university is unique to you.
You can follow one of the study routes below or combine different options to suit you.
For example, you could start studying vocationally and switch to an academic route later on.
There are 3 main study pathways:
Before we look at the different pathways in detail, let's talk about qualifications and study levels.
At school and college, you usually call qualifications by their name, like ‘GCSE’ and 'A Level'.
The same qualifications are referred to by their level in college, university and employment, such as 'Level 3'.
You'll need to complete studies at Level 3 before you apply to university.
Level 3 studies equate to A levels.
All of the Level 3 study options below can make you eligible for university:
Find out more about your level 3 choices and what you can do at 16 from UCAS or Career Pilot , or explore work-based learning options with all about school leavers .
Traditional academic study involves getting your GCSEs, progressing to A Levels, then doing an undergraduate degree at university.
You'll choose some GCSE subjects to study alongside your core courses at 13 years old.
Choosing subjects that relate to the degree you want to do can help you prepare for university, and give you a better chance of getting accepted to the course you want to study.
But don't worry if you don't know what you want to do a degree in yet.
Lots of degrees have minimum GCSE requirements in core subjects like English and Maths, but usually don't have requirements for optional subjects.
Studying A Levels at Level 3 is a good choice if you want to study a range of subjects and prefer exams to ongoing assessments.
You'll study 3 subjects equally and complete some coursework, but most of your assessments will be exams at the end of Year 13.
To study A Levels, you usually need GCSE Maths and English at Grade 4 or above, and you may need Grade 5 in specific subjects you want to continue.
Discover some of the subjects you can study with us at degree level .
And explore the careers they could lead to.
Vocational courses are great if you learn best by doing things and prefer coursework to exams.
You'll study one subject area and gain work experience as part of your course.
If you're not sure what kind of learner you are, take our Learning Preferences Quiz .
Vocational study involves:
You'll be assessed by regular practical assessments, coursework, and some exams on most qualifications.
You might choose Level 2 subjects to study between 13 and 16 alongside your core GCSEs.
You'll usually need 4 to 6 GCSEs at grades 4 – 9 including English and Maths in order to do vocational study at Level 3.
You can re-take GCSE English or Maths alongside vocational qualifications if you meet all other entry criteria.
T Levels are a great choice at Level 3 if you like a mixture of classroom teaching and hands-on, practical learning.
If you choose to study T Levels, you'll study one subject and undertake industry placements during your course.
You'll spend 20% of your time in the workplace and the rest of your time in college.
You'll be assessed through a mixture of technical qualifications, similar to apprenticeships, and be tested on specialist industry skills you've learnt in the classroom.
To apply for T Levels, you might need a Grade 5 in specific subjects you want to study.
There are several vocational study options which allow you to move into a degree on completion.
Higher National Certificates (HNCs) are equivalent to the first year of study of an undergraduate degree.
They usually take 1 year to complete.
Higher National Diplomas (HNDs) are equivalent to the first 2 years of an undergraduate degree.
They usually take 2 years to complete.
If you do an HNC or HND, you can start working as soon as you qualify, or you can join an undergraduate degree programme 1 or 2 years into the programme.
HNCs and HNDs boost your theoretical understanding and skills for your career.
You can also do a Foundation degree (FdA), which is equivalent to 2 years of an undergraduate degree.
Once you finish your foundation course, you can study a top-up degree to reach the same study level as an undergraduate degree.
Entry requirements for most FdAs depend on your subject.
Sometimes you'll need specific qualifications or industry experience, but you'll usually be assessed individually when you apply.
Work-based learning is ideal for you if you have a particular career in mind and want to work and learn at the same time.
Work-based learning includes:
This kind of learning involves studying alongside your job.
For example, you study a subject relating to your career and spend 20% of your time at college during an advanced apprenticeship.
You complete most of your assessments in the workplace, including coursework units and practical assessments.
You usually need 4 to 6 GCSEs at grades 4 – 9, including English and Maths, to apply for Level 3 work-based learning.
If you don't have your GCSE English or Maths, but meet the other entry criteria, you may be able to take a Level 2 functional skills qualification to meet the entry requirements.
Explore the degree apprenticeships and work based degrees you could do at Portsmouth.
See if you know your A Levels from your T Levels, and what's true and false about going to uni.
Drag the qualification boxes to the correct place on the table below to check your knowledge of different pathways and study levels.
There are lots of myths around going to university.
Take our Pathways Quiz to figure out if you know myth from reality.
University study includes full-time undergraduate degrees and other qualifications and study options.
You'll use UCAS to apply for most undergraduate courses but you should check how to apply on individual course pages .
Your university study choices include:
You don't have to start university straight away – you can take time out between completing your previous studies and starting your degree.
Some students take a year out (known as a gap year) to travel, start working, retake some qualifications or earn some work experience.
You can also take a longer break from studying and return as a mature student.
If you've already studied at Level 4 or above, or gained relevant Level 4 experience through work, you can apply for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) when you apply for your course.
RPL converts your university-level knowledge, skills and experience into credits to put towards your new qualification so you can start your course at the appropriate level.
This also reduces the credits and time you need to study to complete your course.
Find out more about RPL and how to apply .
Take a look at our Student Ambassador blogs to find out about their GCSE and A level choices, and how they made their uni decision.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/study-and-student-life/alternative-ways-to-get-a-degree:
But this approach doesn't suit everyone.
Maybe you can't get to campus and don't want to move to a new city.
Maybe you're well set in your career.
Maybe you have family commitments.
Or maybe you don't meet the entry requirements for a degree course yet.
So what are the other ways to get a degree if studying full-time isn't for you?
From degree apprenticeships and work-based degrees that allow you to earn a salary while you study, to foundation years, which usually have lower entry requirements, there are several alternatives to the standard 3-year Bachelor's or 1-year Master's degree.
Want to earn a salary while you get your Bachelor's or Master's degree and not pay a single pound in tuition fees?
Degree apprenticeships blend part-time study with practical workplace experience.
The Government and your employer cover your tuition fees and some of your other study costs.
The usual setup on a degree apprenticeship is you go to uni 1 day a week on day release and learn on the job with your employer for the other 4 days.
During university holidays, you still spend around 20% of your time learning away from your working environment.
Most degree apprenticeships are in subjects where the skills and expertise you develop are in high demand.
To do a degree apprenticeship, you can apply for a role with a company that offers them or ask your employer to set one up with the University.
If you're already in employment, a work-based 'Learning at Work' course allows you to get a degree alongside your job, without going to university full-time.
You do most of your learning through work-based projects, which benefit your employer.
You can also study modules on campus or by distance learning.
You study at a pace that's best for you and apply the knowledge and skills you gain straightaway in your job.
You can often claim recognition of prior learning (RPL) to put learning from training courses, employment, voluntary work, private study, and previous attendance at college and university towards your work-based degree.
This cuts down the length of time you need to study for.
Katie Raine, Former Lieutenant in the Royal Navy, PgCert Occupational Health and Safety Management
Interested in getting a degree on campus but need to balance it with your other commitments?
Many postgraduate Master's courses are available to study part-time.
There are a growing number of part-time undergraduate courses too.
Obviously, a part-time degree takes longer to complete – you can find out how long each of our part-time degrees take on the relevant course page .
Also bear in mind you may need to attend campus during the day, which may need some planning to fit in around a job and other commitments.
You can usually still get tuition fee and maintenance loans on a part-time undergraduate degree, as long as you're studying at least 25% of a full-time course.
If you do a part-time Master's degree, you could still be eligible for a Government Postgraduate Master's Loan .
Don't meet the entry requirements for a Bachelor's degree or returning to study after a break?
A foundation year course might be for you.
These let you get a taste for what university is like.
You study a broad area in your chosen field, which can help you decide what subject to study at degree level.
You also learn the core study skills you need for degree-level study.
After you complete your foundation year successfully you can do a full Bachelor's degree in a related subject.
Note that foundation years and foundation degrees aren't the same thing.
A foundation year prepares you for degree-level study while a foundation degree (FdA) is a qualification equivalent to 2 years of a 3-year Bachelor's degree.
Looking for a more practical route into higher education?
An HND qualification is equivalent to a foundation degree (FdA) or 2 years of a 3-year Bachelor's degree.
Once you complete an HND, you can use your qualification to go straight into work.
Or use your knowledge and skills to top-up your HND to a Bachelor's degree.
Top-up degrees allow you to 'top up' an existing qualification – typically an HND, foundation degree or diploma – to a full Bachelor's or Master's degree.
They usually last 1 year, full-time.
Distance learning means you study online at a time that fits your schedule and commitments.
You learn using digital course material, streamed lectures and online forums, and live chats with your teachers and peers.
Distance learning has great benefits, such as:
Whatever your ambition or passion, we'll help you go further: search our undergraduate, postgraduate and learning at work courses today.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/structure-and-governance/legal/terms-and-conditions/webpay-terms-and-conditions:
Please read these terms carefully before using our online payment facility - Webpay.
Using this facility on this website indicates that you accept these terms.
All Terms and Conditions shown below are secondary to the rules and regulations of the University as defined in the Student Handbook.
A payment made via the online facility does not on it's own constitute an agreement between you and the University.
A contract will only come into being when separate conditions for the provision of a service have been fulfilled, for example the completion of a registration form or residential licence agreement.
Your payment will normally reach your University account on the next working day following the completion of your payment authorisation.
We cannot accept liability for any payment that does not reach the correct account due to incorrect account number or personal details being provided.
Should your provider decline payment, the University is not obliged to bring this to your attention.
If you fail to receive a payment confirmation email, you should check with your card provider that payment has been processed through your account.
In the event that an overpayment is made, the credit balance arising may be used to offset any debt or outstanding invoice on the student’s account (whether arising from tuition, accommodation fees, or any other legitimate charge).
The credit balance will be offset against the oldest outstanding invoice.
Applications for a refund should be submitted to income@port.ac.uk or telephone 023 9284 5533
If there is no other debt or outstanding invoice, the credit balance will be refunded in accordance with the University’s normal procedures, as follows:-
Refunds, if applicable, will only be made to the debit/credit card used for the original transaction.
If, at the time of the refund, the card has expired or the account closed, documentary evidence will be required from the card holder before the refund can be made.
The University provides this online payment facility as a service to you and is committed to respecting and protecting your privacy.
We will only use information entered on this site for the following purposes:
Occasionally, we may need to share your information with other organisations to fulfil the above purposes.
We will not otherwise sell, licence or trade your personal information to others.
We do not provide your personal information to direct marketing companies.
We do not store your credit or debit card information after payments have been processed.
By using this facility you consent to the collection and use of your personal information as detailed above.
The processing of personal data is regulated by the Data Protection Act 2018.
All payment details which are entered through this facility are encrypted when the student or third party makes a payment.
The University does not collect the payment directly from the payer; the payment is collected by our Payment Service Provider.
Communications to and from the Payment Service Provider’s site are encrypted.
The University shall not be liable for any failure of the student or third party making payment of fees to properly protect data from being seen on their screen by other persons, or otherwise obtained by such other persons during the online payment process.
Furthermore the University shall not be liable for any omission to provide accurate information in the course of the online payment process.
If you have any queries regarding this online payment facility please contact the Finance team.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/bateson-hall:
Self-catered, shared bathroom, from £118 per week
We guarantee you a room in halls – if you make us your firm first choice, and meet our accommodation deadlines.
132 standard rooms and 33 large rooms arranged in self-contained flats of five students with shared bathrooms in each single-sex flat within mixed-sex blocks.
*Prices are estimated and subject to confirmation and rounded to the nearest pound for clarity.
Bedroom
Exterior
Kitchen
Laundrette
Join Law student Miriama on a virtual tour, or take your own 360 tour around Bateson Hall.
Explore Bateson Hall with this guided 360 tour, one of our self-catered halls, close to the city centre of Portsmouth.
Miriana: Hi, everyone, it's Miriana here.
I'm a second-year law student at the University of Portsmouth, and today I'll be guiding you through Bateson Hall, which you can see in front of your screens at the moment.
I used to live here in my first year at university.
And to be fair, I did like it because of the good location and the good price.
So, as you can see, the hall is divided into separate blocks.
It goes from A-block, which is the highest one.
Obviously, students can use the lift provided inside.
And it goes from A-block up to E-block over there.
Another important thing to mention is that in here and in here, you can find the main office of the resident's life team.
Their objective is to support students and provide their welfare.
You can contact them if you have any issues whatsoever.
They also organise various events.
Which help students to integrate into the university's life.
So before proceeding with the tour, I just wanted to show you a couple of buildings which are in a close link to Bateson.
So just opposite you can see Harry Law, and Harry Law and Bateson are the only halls which are owned by the University.
Down the road, you can see the Guildhall, and from there you have access to various high street shops, supermarkets, nightclubs are extremely close as well.
We now proceed to reception.
So, this is the place you will need to first come to as the staff will provide you with all of the necessary keys for your room and your flats.
If you have any issues, you can contact the reception as well.
An important thing to note is that the reception usually closes at 8.00pm, but the security guys are here 24/7.
But if there isn't anyone around, there is a phone right in front of the entrance over here, and you can call, and someone will show up with short notice.
Another thing to mention is that if you are receiving any parcels, they will be stored here and you will have to come with your student card and confirm that it is your parcel.
If you are receiving any other post, it will be in your lockers which are situated in each of the blocks.
Unfortunately, the common room is not included in this 360 virtual tour, but it is right below the reception.
There you can also find the launderette.
You can easily download the app, which allows you to transfer money from your bank account to the app, and you can easily do your washing.
The common room is not as big as in the other halls, but it is a nice place for students to gather around and have fun and integrate and make new friends.
So, we are now proceeding to the bedrooms.
We are now looking at a large room in Bateson hall.
The price of it is £111 per week, which should be £4440 for the whole academic year.
There is also a standard size room which is cheaper and it's £99 per week, which is £3960 per academic year.
Usually, they are paid in three instalments and there are various ways in which you can pay for your accommodation.
Another important thing is that you will need to provide your own bedding and your own stuff and make it your own place.
This is important because it will help you to adjust easier.
We are now proceeding to the kitchen.
As you can see, the kitchen is quite a decent size.
The microwave is provided but apart from that, you will need to provide your own cutlery and crockery.
There is an important thing to mention, students are obliged to clean the common areas themselves or otherwise they will be penalised for not doing that.
I would say that you need around £35 per week for food but obviously this depends on your preferences.
Unfortunately, again, the bathrooms and the toilets are not included in the tour, but they are shared.
So, you will share your bathroom and toilet with four more people as the flat consists of five people.
The flats are single-sex.
So, this is the end of our tour.
I hope that the information I've given you is helpful to you and have a great rest of the day.
I hope to welcome you on campus in October.
Student Housing

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/langstone-flats:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £131 per week
*Prices are estimated and subject to confirmation, and rounded to the nearest pound for clarity.
Communal dining and living area
Personal work space
En-suite bathroom
Take our 360 virtual tour of Langstone Flats and see if this is the right place for you.
Take the tour

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/burrell-house:
Catered, shared bathroom, from £159 per week
* Prices are estimated and subject to confirmation, and rounded to the nearest pound for clarity.
Social space
Take our 360 virtual tour of Burrell House and see if this is the right place for you.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/catherine-house:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £170 per week
Desk
Follow student David for a virtual walk around Catherine House.
David
Welcome to Catherine House.
My name is David and I'll be your guide today.
Catherine House is located right in the centre of Portsmouth, overlooking the beautiful Victoria Park, right next to the train station and only a 5 to 10 minute walk from most university buildings.
Catherine House is separated into flats for 4 to 6 people with kitchens, so you can prepare your own meals or cook together as flatmates.
Each room has its own en-suite bathroom and is furnished with a bed, desk and drawers.
You have free broadband and Wi-Fi and all the bills will be included in the cost of your room.
There are indoor and outdoor spaces available, equipped with televisions and games, including the gorgeous Sky Lounge, which hosts regular social and wellbeing events.
Catherine House has laundry services onsite, bike storage and 24 hour security in operation, so that you always feel safe and secure during your stay.
You can always find up to date information on our hall's pricing and their facilities on port.ac.uk/accommodation.
Thank you very much for joining me and if you have any questions, feel free to reach out to our student housing team at any time.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/greetham-street-hall:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £185 per week
Study space
Join Portsmouth student Bea on a walking tour around Greetham Street Hall
Bea Welcome to our tour of Unite Students halls.
My name is Bea and I will be your guide today.
Unite Students operate four of our official student housing.
They're all located in the city centre with easy access to the local shops and train station and a short walk to just about every building on campus.
Unite students halls are separated into flats with kitchens so that you can prepare your own meals or cook together as flatmates.
Every room has its own en-suite and is fitted with a bed, desk and drawers.
You'll have access to free Wi-Fi and broadband and all your bills will be included within the price of your room.
Each Unite Students hall has his own slightly different flavour, with different exteriors and social areas with seating, as well as study spaces and entertainment, like pool and table football.
Every hall has 24 hour security in operation, so you will always feel safe and secure during your stay.
Each halls also have their own laundry room and bike storage and most of them have printing facilities too.
Chaucer House even has a gym.
You can always find up to date information on our pricing and facilities at our halls by visiting port.ac.uk/accommodation.
Thanks for joining me and if you have any questions, remember you can contact the student housing team at any time.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/harry-law-hall:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £151 per week
Bathroom
Accessible cooking space
Join student Rossy on a walking tour around Harry Law Hall.
Rossy Welcome to Harry Law hall.
My name is Rossy and I'm going to be your tour guide today.
This is also where I live.
Harry Law is located right in the centre of Portsmouth, next to the Guildhall Square.
It is surrounded by shops, bars and entertainment venues.
The train station is just up the road and most university buildings are just a 5 to 10 minute walk away.
Harry Law is ideal for students who want the city right on their doorstep at an affordable price.
In Harry Law, you live in an individual room along a communal corridor, sharing a kitchen with 5 to 7 people so you can cook your own meals or cook together as flat mates.
You'll have access to free broadband and Wi-Fi and all bills are included in the cost of your room.
Every room has its own en-suite bathroom and it's furnished with a bed, desk and drawers.
There are laundry facilities onsite and you have access to residential and support services just across the road.
You can always find up to date information on pricing and facilities at our halls by visiting port.ac.uk/accommodation.
Thanks for joining me and if you have any questions, you can reach out to our student housing team any time.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/margaret-rule-hall:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £171 per week
Please note that during the 2025 -26 academic year Unite are planning to carry out building works, including the external facade of these properties, between 8am and 6pm Monday to Friday.
You will hear some noise disruption during working hours, and experience some reduced light to your room at times.
Unite will communicate notice of these works ahead of them starting and update you through the process.
They will also hold face to face drop-in sessions for students throughout the year.
Take our 360 virtual tour of Margaret Rule Hall and see if this is the right place for you.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/rees-hall:
Catered, en suite bathroom, from £195 per week (for September 2025)
Cafeteria
Join Portsmouth student Jenny on a walking tour around Rees Halls.
Jenny Welcome to Rees Hall.
My name is Jenny and I'll be your guide today.
Rees Hall is just a stone's throw from the seafront, right on the edge of the common, beautiful views and fresh sea air, but still less than a 15 minute walk from the heart of campus.
It's also one of our only catered accommodations.
Rees hall provides you with your daily breakfast and dinner so you can stay fully focused on your studies.
Rather than separating into flats, everyone has their own individual room with an en-suite bathroom along a communal corridor.
As with all our halls, Rees hall’s bedrooms are furnished with a bed, desk and drawers, with free broadband and Wi-Fi and all bills are included in the cost of your room.
Rees hall has two comfy social spaces, equipped with TV and games for you and your friends to enjoy.
There is also a laundry and pantries on every floor where you can get access to a kettle and a microwave so you can heat up meals in between catering times.
Rees hall has a desk is manned than 24 hours, ensuring that you'll never be locked out and you can always find support if you need it.
You can find up to date information on our pricing and facilities at our halls by visiting port.ac.uk/accommodation.
Thanks for joining me.
If you have any questions, remember to reach out to our student housing team any time.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/rosalind-franklin-halls:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £165 per week
652 en suite rooms arranged in self-contained flats for four to six students and 21 studio rooms
Take our 360 virtual tour of Rosalind Franklin Halls and see if this is the right place for you.
Join student Bea on a walking tour around Rosalind Franklin Hall

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/trafalgar-hall:
Self-catered, en suite bathroom, from £153 per week
276 en suite rooms arranged in self-contained flats for six students and 38 studio rooms

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/our-halls-of-residence/trust-hall:
Self-catered, shared bathroom, from £110 per week
Living space

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-renting/house-hunting:
Looking for a new home in Portsmouth?
Here's a handy guide of important things to consider.
For student house hunters, Portsmouth offers plenty of great places to live – from vibrant Southsea to the quieter outer neighbourhoods.
You can cross our island city in an hour on foot or within 20 minutes by bike, so it's easy to get around.
The right student house for you will depend on what you want to spend, how far you want to commute and what you want to do in your spare time, but wherever you find it, you'll have everything you need not far from your doorstep.
Choosing who to live with
Finding the right house for you
Private renting jargon
Before the serious business of house hunting begins, you need to pick your housemates.
When you’re doing that, consider the following:
Once you’ve decided where you want to live and who you want to share a house with, you need to find the right house for you.
Here are some things to think about when searching for a place to live:
Once you've found a few properties you like, the next step is to arrange viewings.
When you view any property, look out for these three important things:
Can’t find the right place for you on our StudentPad ?
Search online for student letting agents in Portsmouth or contact our Student Housing team for help.
If you're new to the world of private renting, you'll encounter words and phrases that you probably haven't heard before.
Our glossary can guide you through the common terms.
This relates to late rent payment or failure to pay rent on the specified date agreed in your tenancy agreement.
ASTs are one of the most common tenancy types in the private rented sector.
ASTs apply to a property for which you pay rent, have exclusive possession to all common areas in the house, such as the kitchen, and the landlord does not reside in the property.
This relates to a term often used in tenancy agreements, which allows both parties to end a tenancy before its due date.
Although this is beneficial to the tenant, it must be agreed by the landlord.
But they are uncommon in student contracts.
Properties occupied by full time students are council tax exempt.
If you're a part time student, you'll be liable for paying Council Tax but on a reduced rate.
If you're in a house where most of you are students and one person is either part time or not studying at all, you'll all become liable for paying council tax due to this person living in the house.
Further information can be found from Portsmouth City Council .
This can be defined as ‘the condition of being in need of repair’.
As a tenant, you have the right to have your accommodation kept in a reasonable state of repair.
You also have an obligation to look after the accommodation.
The tenancy agreement may give details of both your and your landlord’s responsibilities in carrying out repairs, so you should check this.
This is a complex area relating to housing law where a landlord must request through the courts to have an order directing a tenant to leave the landlord’s premises.
There are specific procedures that a landlord must follow before a tenant can be evicted.
Trying to illegally evict someone is protected by law under the Prevention of Eviction Act 1977 .
For further advice if you feel you are under the threat of eviction, please come into the office and speak to one of the Student Housing Officers straight away.
This clause is often in place in most tenancy agreements to protect the tenant and make allowances for the original age, quality and condition of any item at the start of the tenancy, the average lifespan of the item, the number and type of occupants in the property and the length of the tenants’ occupancy.
A good example would be faded paintwork, slight markings from furniture or a well-used oven.
A good inventory will note the condition of fixtures and furnishings before a tenant moves into a property.
The majority of student agreements will be for a fixed term, from a (legal) minimum of six months up to 12 months.
Once you've signed a fixed term agreement, you're obliged to pay rent to the landlord for the duration of the tenancy.
Likewise, the landlord is bound by the fixed term on the contract.
Some fixed term contracts will state a ‘minimum fixed term’.
In such cases, it's advisable that you give your landlord at least one month’s written notice (or however much is stated in your agreement) prior to the end of the fixed term.
Failure to give adequate notice can result in the landlord holding you responsible for a further month’s rent (or until sufficient notice has been received).
If you're happy to stay at the property, there may be a clause in the contract which states that once the fixed term has passed you will then be on a ‘statutory periodic tenancy’ i.e.
rolling the tenancy on a month by month basis until either the tenant or landlord gives notice to quit.
Quite literally, guarantees rent payments and other tenancy obligations on a rental property.
It's standard practice for landlords to ask for a UK based guarantor for student tenants.
It's normally a parent or a guardian of the tenant who takes on this responsibility.
If you can't get a UK based guarantor, you may be asked to pay sets of rent in advance, for example, three to four months’ rent as a guarantee that the rent will be paid.
This is a classification of houses which have three or more bedrooms and all occupants are unrelated, i.e.
student sharers.
In August 2013, an additional licensing scheme was introduced within the PO1, PO4 and PO5 areas in Portsmouth, which means that smaller HMOs with three or more tenants belonging to two or more households also require a licence.
These properties are required to be licensed by Portsmouth City Council and are subjected to checks by the council following the Housing Health and Safety Rating System (HHSRS) before a licence is granted.
This is a detailed list produced by the landlord that states the items in the property and their present condition.
This includes furniture, fixtures and fittings in the property from doors and windows, to carpets and walls – ideally right down to the number of picture hooks on a wall.
When a group of tenants sign a joint contract (all tenants sign one contract rather than separate ones each), they ( and their guarantors) are all equally responsible for the total amount of rent payable to the landlord (not just their share) and for the condition of the property.
For example, all must contribute towards any repairs/ replacements required to items in the property once the tenancy ends and during the period of occupation.
A lodger is a person who rents a room in a private house from a landlord/lady who resides on the premises OR a family member of the property owner who resides there and shares the communal facilities.
You generally will not sign a contract, maybe just a lodger’s agreement or a set of house rules.
Lodgings agreements are generally very flexible, as you do not have a fixed term agreement, though please note, lodgers are not protected by the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 .
Your deposit is also not protected in one of the protection schemes, as you will not have an Assured Shorthold Tenancy.
This is the amount of time that your landlord gives you OR that you give before ending a tenancy.
Landlords normally have to give two months’ notice and tenants one month, but this can vary depending on what's in your contract.
A resident landlord is classed as the property owner or a relative of the property owner, who lives in the same property as the person they are renting to.
The tenancy agreement is a form of consumer contract and, as such, it must be in plain language, which is clear and easy to understand.
It must not contain any terms which could be ‘unfair’, e.g.
the tenancy agreement must not put you or your landlord in a disadvantageous position, enable one party to change terms permanently and bind you to terms that you have had no time to become familiar with.
An unfair term is not valid in law and cannot be enforced.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-renting/viewing-a-property:
Use our property viewing checklist and don't miss a thing when you're looking round a potential new home
There's plenty to think about when you view potential new homes.
Use our list of important things to check – and important questions to ask – when you're looking around.
If there's anything you're not sure about before or after you've looked around a property, our Student Housing team can offer advice and information.
They can also help you with your tenancy contract if you don't understand all the clauses.
Do you have the name of the landlord and their contact number?

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-renting/moving-in:
Our advice on everything from signing your tenancy agreement, to how to be a good neighbour
You've found your perfect home and you're ready to sign on the dotted line and move in – here's what to expect next and what to do before moving day.
Before you move in
Once you've got the keys
After you've settled in
When you find your perfect home, you'll have more than just your monthly rent to think about.
Before you get your foot in the door, you'll need to pay a number of fees and charges.
Generally speaking, when you sign up to a property, you should expect to pay a damage deposit (no more than five weeks' worth of rent) and the first month’s rent up front.
The descriptions below will help you understand what you're paying for and why.
This is a one-off sum paid to the landlord (or accommodation agency) to guarantee your tenancy.
It's non-refundable, so you shouldn’t pay it until you're absolutely certain you'll sign the contract.
If you're happy to proceed with the property, the holding deposit amount will often go towards the damage deposit amount.
Under legislation brought into place under the Tenant Fees Act, letting agencies and landlords cannot charge additional fees to tenants.
More information about this can be found on the government website .
Tenancy agreements are a highly specialised area of law, and this is only a brief guide to contracts – so if you need more information, please seek professional advice.
Our Student Housing team also offer a free contract checking service.
Your landlord is not required to provide a written tenancy agreement, but all landlords registered for advertising on Portsmouth Studentpad will.
In any situation, you should always ask for a tenancy agreement, because it states the terms and conditions of the tenancy, and this is crucial in case of a dispute.
Your landlord must provide you with a copy to read before you sign it and take on the property.
Joint tenancy agreements are contracts where all persons intending to share a house commit to one agreement and have shared responsibility.
It's a common type of contract offered by landlords, and there are important joint tenancy implications to remember.
You can tell if you're on a joint tenancy if all the tenants’ names are listed on one agreement, not on separate agreements.
If someone leaves during the tenancy period, they and your household will normally be expected to find someone else to replace them – but the person who leaves is still obliged to pay rent until a replacement is found.
All tenants have shared responsibility for the rent.
Remaining tenants are expected to cover the rent if someone leaves during the tenancy and no-one else moves in.
In such situations the landlord would generally approach any remaining resident tenants for outstanding rent.
If you're renting a room in the same house where the homeowner (or a direct relative of the homeowner) lives, then you'll be in a set up known as ‘lodgings’.
As a lodger, you'll be living in the house under the permission of the homeowner.
You should expect to agree to and sign a set of basic house rules or a more formal licence agreement, at the very minimum.
You'll also more than likely sign a fixed term tenancy agreement.
You'll still be expected to pay a damage deposit in most lodgings accommodation.
This is typically 2–4 weeks’ worth of rent, but there is no set rule.
As you're not classed as a tenant (and therefore don’t have an Assured Shorthold Tenancy), your deposit can't be protected in one of the Deposit Protection Schemes – so if you pay a deposit, make sure you get a receipt to confirm the payment and exactly what it's for.
There are certain things that must be included on your tenancy agreement, otherwise it could be deemed invalid.
If you aren’t sure of anything, please get in touch with Student Housing, but here are the main things to check for:
Here’s some helpful advice for when the big move is about to begin.
An inventory is a list of furniture and furnishings that come with the property.
It must describe the condition of each item listed, including the wall and floor coverings.
It's very important that an inventory is compiled, either by yourself or the landlord, as it's both evidence of the condition of the property at the start of your tenancy, and an important item of proof at the end of it, in the event of a dispute over your deposit.
If the landlord won't provide an inventory, create one yourself and ask someone to witness and agree its contents.
Back it up with photographic evidence and get the landlord to agree to and sign the document.
If you are a full-time student and you only live with other full-time students, then your house is exempt from paying Council Tax while you are on your course.
If you live within the PO1 – PO6 postcode area of Portsmouth, the University will automatically let Portsmouth City Council know that you are a student and may be exempt from paying Council Tax.
If your landlord asks for confirmation that you're a student, you can request it from the University.
If you live outside the PO1 – PO6 postcode area, or in a different town or city, then you'll need to request confirmation you are a student from us and send it to your local council yourself.
One of the first things to do when you move into a new property is locate the meters.
If you're not sure where they are, ask your landlord or agent.
You’ll have a meter for electricity, gas (if installed at the property) and possibly water too.
Take a reading from all of them and then inform the relevant utility companies.
If you're not sure who supplies what in your house, check with your landlord or agency.
If you're liable for the water bills, Portsmouth has two water companies – Portsmouth Water for fresh water and Southern Water for wastewater – so you’ll get two separate bills.
Remember: all tenants on the contract are liable for the utility bills from the start date of the contract until the end date, even if you are not living in the property anymore.
Whether you live in a shared house or lodgings, you’ll have to communicate with your landlord.
Here are our tips for dealing with your landlord if you have any issues:
Your landlord is responsible for making sure your new home meets fire safety standards.
But you and your housemates are responsible for making sure you don’t create fire hazards in your home.
Follow our ten top tips for making sure you're prepared for fire safety and know what to do in an emergency.
Living in a shared house with friends can be a great experience, but you don't need to be best friends to be good housemates.
Respect is what matters most, so be considerate, a good communicator and prepared to compromise – you can’t expect to move into a shared house and have everything just the way you like it.
Organise together how you'll pay household bills, start a cleaning rota for communal areas, and consider starting a household ’kitty’ for items everyone uses such as toilet roll, cleaning products and milk.
Consider how you live and how the others like to live too – because things can break down over lifestyle differences.
You're not going to agree on everything, and sometimes you'll find that your social life and academic timetable is out of sync with your friends: they may have plenty of free time just when you don't, and that can create tension unless you're all considerate and understanding of each other.
It also pays to be really open about the big and little things that matter to you.
For example, you may be a vegetarian and you may not want meat to be cut on your chopping board, even if your housemates promise they'll wash it thoroughly afterwards.
Rather than waiting for something like that to happen and then dealing with the fallout, let them know up-front that your chopping board is for veg only.
The University is in the heart of the city, so when you become a member of the University, you'll become a member of the local community too.
It might be the first time you’ve had neighbours of your own that aren't students, and it's important that you have a good relationship with them.
Get in touch with at Student Housing

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances:
Explore the support available to University of Portsmouth students and applicants

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-care-leavers/moving-up:
Hear from students with lived experiences of care and estrangement
Moving UP has been co-created with University of Portsmouth students that have their own lived experiences of living without parental support.
Individual experiences of care can impact people in many different ways.
If you're living without the support of a family or network, you're not alone.
Moving UP is here to give you advice and guidance on all the important big steps in your life.
Thinking about going to university?
Or in the middle of exciting future plans?
Our students will help you prepare for what's ahead.
Coming from all walks of life – their voices will guide you through things like living independently after leaving care, getting student finance support after separating from your parents and lots more.
Check out their stories below.
If you're a professional working with young people have care experience, then we’d love for you to join us at our annual information event.
The aim of the event is to support the supporters.
That could be anyone working as a foster carer, a social worker, a designated teacher or anyone else supporting young people.
With themes put forward by students themselves, and their voices shared throughout, we collaborate to develop understanding, as well as to provide support, guidance and ideas for the future.
For more information and to register your interest, please contact Kim Skinner, Outreach Coordinator kimberley.skinner@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/applying-to-university:
Find out about applying to University generally, and more specifically about our university’s admission process.
Once you have chosen which course(s) you would be interested in studying you need to make an application to your chosen University.
Depending on the course your application will need to be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) or directly to the University.
Applications procedures will differ depending on the University and the course you have chosen to study but you may be invited to attend an interview, complete tests or submit examples of your work as part of this process.
You should also think about declaring your autism on your application form, this will not impact on the Universities decision to offer/not offer a place but it will enable you to access support and adjustments if required.
Knowing more about the application and admissions process will enable you to prepare, and think about whether you require any support or adjustments through this process e.g.
extra time for interviews.
If you have any concerns about the admissions process and would like to talk about your options for support, you can contact the Disability Advice team.
A current UoP student, Holly, has given us some advice about the challenges she faced when applying to university:
Many universities will ask you to submit a personal statement as part of your application.
This statement is your opportunity to explain why you believe you are a strong candidate for a particular course of study.
Write your statement in rough to start with, and get someone to check it over before you submit it; remember that first impressions count!
Research the course that you are applying for thoroughly, and identify the skills and interests that you will need to study it.
Your statement should highlight:
You can find out more about the admissions procedures at University of Portsmouth Admissions Centre .
You can declare your autism on your application form or contact the Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre team directly.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/before-you-apply:
What is university really like?
Here is a brief view, based on what students told us they wish they had known.
This article aims to help you decide what to study, and at which university.
Find out more about applying to university generally, and about our university’s admission process.
This section provides an overview of the funding and funded support available.
This section provides an overview of the University of Portsmouth.
Read advice from two current students as they reflect on their experience of the first year at uni.
You can request a FREE cognitive profile assessment of your strengths and any challenges you may face while at university.
Request a profiling assessment

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/choosing-a-course-and-a-university:
This page aims to help you decide what to study, and at which university.
We provide practical tips on how to compare universities, how to prepare for open days and who to talk to at these events.
When choosing a course, it is important that you are interested in the subject.
Although not vital, it also helps to think of what career or further study you intend to pursue in order to give you the best possible chance of success in that area.
Courses are taught via a variety of different methods including lectures, seminars, and practical sessions.
Your course may include placement, field trips and residentials, which will take place off campus in a wide variety of locations.
Most courses are assessed by a variety of methods which could include exams, written work, presentations, projects, practical assessments.
It is likely that your course will include some group work.
You will usually study 6 modules every academic year -these are subtopics of your overall course.
Some of these you will be able to choose and some will be compulsory.
By passing your modules you will collect credits which will enable you to progress on your course.
It is common that all students enjoy and excel in some areas above others, however each module is as important as another and all will contribute to your progression.
Choosing the right course for you is the most important choice you make when deciding whether or not to go to University.
Being informed about the content of the course, how it is taught and the methods of assessment may help you to decide which course is right for you.
Once you have decided on a course of study, you then have the often-tricky task of finding a suitable university at which to study it!
There are many factors to take into account when deciding on a university; probably the first question you need to ask yourself is, ‘Do I want to live away from home?’ This is a major consideration for any student, and autistic students can find it particularly challenging.
If you start a course and you find it is not the one for you, there are options to change or start an alternative course.
Take up opportunities to visit the different universities, look around the campuses, visit the accommodation, and try and speak to the tutors… really try and get a feel for what life there would be like.
Find out what is important to you about the university and the course (e.g., how it is taught and assessed) before deciding if it is the right course for you.
If you are visiting several different universities, it can become confusing, and easy to lose track of what was on offer at each; take a camera and note pad, and jot down important details.
Some students have found it useful to have a spreadsheet to compare the facilities and courses on offer; you may want to consider things like:
Each student will have their own priorities when it comes to what is important for them!
Autistic students have told us that they often struggle with understanding how the different modules or units in a course relate to each other, and why they are all required.
When you go to an open day, ask the relevant course leader to explain this.
Often the names of modules within a course do not reveal much about the content – again ask the course leader or module tutor to give you more information.
Often, open days are hosted by current students, sometimes called ‘Student Ambassadors’.
Have a chat with them if possible, to get their first-hand impressions of how it is to study there.
Our advice is to be open about your autism, and explain what you like, what you don’t like, and what you’re good at.
It is also helpful to contact the Disability Advice team before visiting, to ensure you can speak with them on the day, so that they can explain their support policies.
They may also be able to provide you with particular support for the open day, should you require it.
They may even be able to arrange for you to meet another autistic student who can tell you about his/her personal experiences.
Leeds Beckett University has put together a set of Best Practice Guides for academics and disability staff to help them support autistic students better.
They are full of practical tips and you can use these guides as references when talking to professionals – to find out what the university already does in terms of support, and what they could do better in the future.
You can download the guides at www.autism-uni.org/bestpractice.
Some points to consider when choosing where and what to study:
This article was adapted from an article written by Jackie Hagan, Learning Support Coordinator at the University for the Creative Arts at Rochester.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/what-financial-support-is-available:
This section provides an overview of the funding and support available to you in your studies and also contains advice about how and when to apply for this support.
Students are often eligible to apply for a loan which can help to pay for university tuition fees and to help with living costs.
Funding arrangements differ depending on the personal circumstances of the student and the chosen course.
Applying for your student finance is the most important aspect of your application to University, you need to know that the application process can take from 6-8 weeks.
So, make sure you do it as soon as possible to give you the best possible chance of having funding in place in time for the start of your course.
Disabled Students Allowance is government funding intended to cover the extra costs of having a disability, long-term condition, mental health condition, or specific learning difficulty such as an autistic spectrum condition, dyslexia or dyspraxia.
We recognise that not everyone who has an autistic spectrum condition would use the word ‘disabled’ about themselves.
This includes a lot of the students we spoke to in our surveys.
However, Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) is the main way to access support for your study needs at the start of your course and beyond, so it is important to know all about it.
Most autistic students who have been officially diagnosed with an autistic spectrum condition, and are studying on an eligible course, are entitled to DSA – it is not related to any other benefits (even DLA or PIP) or means-tested.
DSA can help with the cost of any additional support you might require whilst studying, such as:
DSA won’t cover costs that all students would have to pay for, like buying textbooks or standard laptops or tickets for the bus to and from university.
DSA is not usually paid directly to the student.
Instead, the money goes directly to the providers of the support recommended for you, whether that is support workers or software or equipment.
The main exception would be if you are entitled to funding for ‘consumables’ like the cost of printing, as some students need to print more than the average student in order to meet their study needs.
In that case, you pay yourself for these things and keep the receipts and the money would be paid back into your bank account later.
Your student loan is important, it pays for your course, it pays for your accommodation and it will help you pay towards food and drink while living in your student accommodation.
Without it you may struggle to attend University.
Autistic students who claim DSA are less likely to drop out of university and more likely to achieve their full potential.
Whether or not you received, or felt you needed support during school or college, university life is very different from the type of study you have been used to and getting the right support in place can make your life a lot easier.
DSA is intended to level the playing field for students who have disabilities, long-term conditions, mental health conditions, autism and specific learning difficulties like dyslexia and ADHD.
Students in the Autism&Uni survey conducted by Leeds Beckett University who told the university about their autism and got support early in their course were more likely to enjoy their time at university and graduate with good grades than those who didn’t get any support.
The timing of the support is important too – students who had all their support in place before the end of the first semester had a much better experience than those students who did not access support.
This means applying for DSA and Student finance as early as you can is a very good idea – it doesn’t matter if the university you end up going to changes.
You can also choose to access support at any point throughout your studies, even if you haven’t previously told the university about your autism, or you receive a diagnosis of autism after starting your studies.
Your support can also be reviewed and amended at any time if you find your needs have changed during your course or the support you have in place is not really working for you.
You can contact your Disability Officer to discuss this.
Apply for Student loan and DSA as early as possible.
The quickest and easiest way to apply for student fees and maintenance loan is on the Government's student finance website .
You can apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance DSA to your funding body (e.g.
Student Finance England).
You can also find further information on applying for the allowance online.
Once your application has been approved you will receive a DSA letter advising you to book a Study Needs Assessment.
The University of Portsmouth Additional Support and Disability Advice Centre (ASDAC) provides extensive advice and guidance for students.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/what-is-the-university-of-portsmouth-like:
This page gives you some information about our University to make it easier for you to decide whether the University of Portsmouth is the right choice for you.
Choosing which university you may want to go to can be a tricky task as there are many factors involved in the decision.
You need to think about the courses the university offers, the quality of teaching, the facilities, opportunities for research, career prospects, student experience, financial factors and distance from home, to name a few.
Although Portsmouth city covers a wide geographical area, university life takes place in a rather small area which makes it very easy to navigate.
Despite being rather small, it is a vibrant city that can cater for almost any taste - from maritime history in the Historic Dockyard to clubs, restaurants, small cafes and award-winning pubs.
Portsmouth is also great for shopping.
There are the designer brands of Gunwharf Quays, well-known high-street shops on Commercial Road and quirky independent boutiques in Southsea.
For the culture inclined, Portsmouth has a thriving cultural life with theatres and cinemas, including an independent cinema, and smaller venues with regular gigs.
But probably the most important feature is the 4 mile stretch of coast and its beautiful beach.
The city hosts major sporting and cultural events too, from summer festivals such as Victorious Festival or the Isle of Wight Festival -which is only a ferry ride away- to the Great South Run and the America's Cup.
The University of Portsmouth is a lively community of researchers, lecturers and students which boasts excellent research as well as above-national average in student satisfaction; a combination that is hard to find.
This is so because research is seen as an integral part of teaching and learning activities.
Our students have the opportunity to be involved in research and are taught by expert researchers.
Despite our focus on producing high-quality research, students are at the heart of most of our activities and services.
There is a wide range of support services for all our students including IT support, careers support, academic skills support, maths support, wellbeing services, housing services, financial services and disability support.
All our students have an academic tutor to help you make the most of your time with us.
You will meet regularly with your tutor who will be able to give you academic support as well as helping you access any personal support services you may need.
If you are concerned about career prospects, the University of Portsmouth has an excellent Placement scheme to boost your career prospects after you graduate and we offer career support up to 5 years after graduation.
Book your place on one of the Open Days at our University here .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/what-is-the-first-year-like-autism-toolkit:
As an autistic student, I found starting university to be incredibly difficult, but it got much easier as time went on.
This was for a multitude of reasons, the main one being how different it was.
I hadn’t done anything like it before, even college was more structured than university which has a scattered timetable, and it being up to you to navigate the day.
The first few weeks were tough, but I started to learn how to manage my time and establish a routine, which was very important to me.
During the first few weeks I found it incredibly helpful to print the following weeks timetable off on Sunday and to plan what I would do in each break that I had.
I spoke with my parents and friends frequently and let them know how I was feeling, as well as any concerns I had.
I also made time for things that I enjoy each day to unwind and relax, for me playing online with friends in the evening.
After a month or two, I had started to settle into a routine and get the hang of how university works.
However, I still had problems with doing “too much” work in the day while on campus to try and meet deadlines ahead of time.
I had the realisation that I was overworking myself to get stuff done as soon as possible, and so I started to give myself breaks.
For me, this was going to a coffee shop to read non course related books.
Coffee shops like Costa can be quite busy and loud, and I found that the Waterstones Café on Commercial Road to usually be quieter.
My two main pieces of advice for the first year would be to talk to your close contacts when starting, as it is a very different, and try to establish a routine as soon as you can if that is important to you.
The second would be that you need to take breaks to avoid over working yourself, as it's important to rest yourself mentally during the day to avoid burn out.
Starting university is a major change in the daily life of everyone, but in my experience the difficulties that are presented with moving to a new city away from your existing support networks are especially difficult to deal with when you already struggle with social interactions.
I’ve known that I was on the autism spectrum for a good 5 or 6 years before coming to university, this knowledge of being on the spectrum acted as a double-edged sword with how I dealt with going to university.
I say this because for my first year I had persistent thoughts in the back of my mind that I wouldn’t be good enough or would struggle with making friends.
Personally, this created a self-fulfilling prophecy of sorts.
I became even more reclusive and didn’t form any new social connections that would have helped me deal with the problems I ran into.
Looking back on it, I can largely attribute this to trying to change too much too quickly.
Trying new things consumes much more of my social battery than re-experiencing past scenarios, so in hindsight I should have tried to stick to what I knew I had the energy to participate in without burning myself out.
While this may seem like I’m saying not to try new things, that’s not what I mean to say.
A notable part of university is that you have 3 years to explore yourself as a person and try things you wouldn’t have been able to if you were working full time.
This is especially true considering that first year is the time when you have the least work academically and ergo the most freedom for hobbies.
What I would recommend therefore is to not overexert yourself when it comes to social obligations.
I have a limited social battery and in first year I overused it to the point that the metaphorical charging port broke.
There was weeks where I didn’t leave my room because I just didn’t have the energy to force myself into doing anything, sleeping away days like nights because I’d completely drained myself socially.
A good analogy for this is that it isn’t recommended for you to deplete your phone battery from 100-0 because it damages the integrity of the battery.
I think people are very similar in this respect because setting output to 100% for too long is unsustainable in the long run.
This connects lightly with my second point.
If you feel like you need help with something, academically, socially or mentally, the university has support mechanisms available to help for a variety of issues you may be experiencing.
In my first year I was prideful and didn’t let on to anyone that I was struggling with mental health issues from burnout.
In hindsight, even just having someone to talk through my thoughts with would have made sorting through said thoughts notably easier and less intrusive.
Lesson learned from this is that even if you think you can deal with any issues you’re having on your own, where’s the harm in getting outside assistance?
The university is bound by law to retain anonymity in these cases similar to how a doctor’s surgery would be.
So while you could work through those problems by yourself, why do that when there is professional help available, for free, that could speed up the process?
On a lighter, mostly unrelated note, food’s an interesting thing to think about.
Uni’s probably the best time to learn how to cook as even if you don’t know how to, most of your peers won’t know how to either.
So it not only makes a good bonding experience with flatmates/house-mates but it’s one of those skills that realistically, everyone needs to learn at some point.
For me it was easier to learn during second year because I had house-mates that actually knew what they were doing when it came to cooking so I got one of them to teach me a few things.
See Get Cooking: Recipes for by far the easiest thing I learnt how to cook, Ramen.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/what-is-university-like:
It’s hard to know what university is like until you get there, and all universities are different.
In some ways it’s easier to describe what university isn’t!
Well, everyone says that it is not like school or college.
So, what IS university really like?
Here we aim to give you a brief realistic view, based on what students told us they wish they had known.
Studying at University is a new experience for everybody.
Whilst all students look forward to the prospect of becoming more independent; the reality of making new friends and getting used to a new environment and way of
studying, can be challenging and takes time to get used to.
However, studying at university can be a very positive experience too as the student below says:
University has increased my confidence in many ways.
I am more comfortable around people, more able to work in groups and thanks to the employability unit of my course I feel more confident in my ability to gain employment upon completion of my degree.
University has also helped me make new friends.
Through my tutor group I have met some nice people who are very understanding of my issues and are always there for support.
Finally, being at university has showed me others have the same issues I do.
Before coming to university, I felt quite isolated and that I was alone in my thoughts and feelings but it is easy to see that a lot of people have the same worries and you are all in a new environment together.
Holly, current University of Portsmouth student
One of the best (and in some ways scariest!) things at university is that nobody checks up on you or tells you what to do.
You are given coursework, obviously, but often with long deadlines, and while lectures and tutorials have sign-in sheets, nobody calls home if you don’t turn up.
Students taking part in a survey conducted by the Autism&Uni team at Leeds Beckett University have highlighted some of the most typical challenges:
Choosing the right course and university for you can be a difficult process.
In the following link you can find a universities’ guide, which may help you to make a decision: Which?
Guide to universities .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/support-for-your-circumstances/support-for-autistic-students/teaching-and-learning:
This activity will help you to make the most out of lectures.
This section looks at how to prepare for a seminar/tutorial.
Read this article to learn more about the nature of lab sessions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/guidance-and-support/chaplaincy:
Confidential support, whatever your religion or beliefs
Life can be full of surprises and sometimes it can be difficult to cope.
Whatever troubles you face whilst at uni – a sudden change in circumstances, a loss of some kind or a tough decision – our University Chaplains can offer support, guidance and a willing ear.
The Chaplaincy Centre and Prayer Rooms can be found on St Pauls Road.
It is open to all students and staff for a confidential chat, somewhere to have lunch with friends, as a place to pray or just find some quiet space.
We'll listen to you confidentially about whatever you want to explore.
Our Chaplains have pastoral skills that can help with establishing values, meaning and purpose for living.
The Chaplaincy Centre & Prayer Rooms are now open with the following times:
This area is a great place to get away and to meet new friends.
If you need a talk, this is the place.
If you want to join a religious society, this is the place.
I enjoy this place because the atmosphere is stress-free and you can always talk to staff.
2nd year student, Anonymous
The Chaplaincy is a safe and inclusive social space.
We're open to all students, regardless of your values and beliefs.
Free tea and coffee is available every day during the week.
We offer:
Our Chaplains will listen and support you.
We'll:
Your visit and conversations are kept confidential unless you give us permission to tell someone else.
If we think you're a risk to yourself or others, we may need to tell someone, but we'll discuss this with you first if we can.
We provide support and can tell you about other services across the University and city for issues such as:
The Chaplaincy offers you an opportunity to build relationships with people from other cultures, faiths and religions.
We also have the resources and contact details for local faith groups.
If you are unsure about how to approach someone from a different cultural or faith background to yourself, then the Chaplains will be able to help.
There are guidelines for building relations with people of different faiths and beliefs, available both nationally, and within the University.
We can direct you to groups and organisations that specialise in building interfaith relationships.
The Chaplaincy is a marvellous place to spend some free time.
If you want, you can get into conversation with others, play games or seek advice about something.
Or if you prefer, you can sit on your own, quietly, reading a book or simply listening to Classic FM Radio, recovering from the exertion of university life.
Whichever you choose, you will be glad you went.
Staff member, Anonymous
Throughout the year, the Chaplaincy team organise social events for students and staff to meet new people within a peaceful and impartial environment.
Activities include:
Everyone in the University community is welcome to visit and participate in our social events, speak to us, socialise with friends or use the space for quiet time and reflection.
Call us on +44 (0)23 9284 3030 , or email us at chaplains@port.ac.uk .
You can also follow us on Instagram @uopstudentlife , or visit us at the Chaplaincy Centre & Prayer Rooms, St Pauls Road, Southsea PO5 4AQ.
We are open 9.00am to 5.00pm Monday to Thursday, and Fridays from 9.00am to 4.00pm.
If you need support out of hours, you can call the University Security Lodge on 023 9284 3418 and ask for Student Support.
University Chaplaincy
023 9284 3030
chaplains@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/discovery-series:
Find your passion and discover where your future could take you
These decisions affect options at GCSE and A level – and eventually your course uni and career.
Discovery Series let's you see what it's like to study different degrees, and the exciting places they could take you.
Try interactive challenges and get insight from current students.
Then build a skyscraper and become a master encrypter.
Here, you can take your knowledge to the next level and make the best decisions for your future.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/discovery-series/study-accounting-and-finance:
Learn analytical and problem-solving techniques that will be invaluable in any business environment
They use their expertise to make insightful business decisions.
They create value for everyone involved in the organisation and help shape the world around us.
If you're thinking about pursuing a career in the financial sector or becoming a chartered accountant, we're here to help you get there.
Explore our interactive workshops to learn about studying accounting and finance, what analytical and problem-solving skills you'll develop, and how to kick-start your future.
The workshops are available on demand.
Just write your name and go to the interactive learning platform.
Follow the instructions, watch the videos and discover where the subjects could take you.
Accounting is a language that all industries – from sport to theatre to pharmaceuticals – use to help their businesses function.
Explore how accounting is used in the real world and why it matters to everyone.
Prepare for your career in accounting or the financial industry with a degree course that caters to your ambition.
Choose a course with accreditations from relevant professional bodies such as the CIMA and the ACCA.
University offers so many opportunities to learn, network and grow and this is what I’m the most grateful for.
7 July 2020
3 mins read

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/discovery-series/study-astrophysics-and-cosmology:
Explore the universe through the fundamental aspects of physics, astrophysics and cosmology
We're expanding our knowledge of our universe all the time.
But 95% of it exists in a form we still don’t understand.
If you want to deepen our knowledge of the fundamental laws of physics, and apply this to the structure and behaviour of some of the largest and smallest elements of existence, then there's plenty left for you to discover.
And here's a chance to get a taste of what that could look like for you in the future.
Ever wondered how astronomers know so much about the universe when everything in space is so far away?
They can't always go there to do experiments, but it's possible to explore the universe from earth.
In this workshop, you'll become a cosmic detective and use physics to understand what's going on in some of the distant objects we can see through our telescopes.
On this course, deepen your understanding of the fundamental laws of physics and apply what you learn to the structure and behaviour of some of the largest and smallest elements of existence.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/thinking-about-uni/discovery-series/study-business:
Learn what it takes excel in the world of business
Gain the expertise and entrepreneurial spirit to influence local and global economies.
Make lasting positive impacts on societies and the lives of individuals.
That's what you could if you study business.
You'll also develop transferable skills that you'll use throughout your professional life in areas such as team working, prioritisation, planning, IT, entrepreneurship and communication.
Here, you can learn a little about what it takes to start your own online business, and the things you could do with business degree.
How do online business owners make money?
Learn the methods that online entrepreneurs use to attract people to their websites and make sales.
Through the use of shopping carts, pricing and menu pages, you'll see how they develop a range of tools to shape their brands and make a profit.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/student-life/graduation/graduation-faqs:
Our graduation pages provide essential details, including preparation tips, ticket booking procedures, academic dress requirements, eligibility, and more.
But if you still have questions, please refer to our FAQs below.
Ceremonies
Tickets
Academic dress
Eligibility
Deferral
Photography
Student Speakers
Other
Graduation ceremonies will take place between 22 July to 31 July 2025 (excluding the weekend).
Find ceremony date (graduates)
Find ceremony date (guests)
The Portsmouth Guildhall hosts our graduation ceremonies.
It is located within a very short walk of Portsmouth & Southsea train station and next to the University’s Park Building.
The entrance to Portsmouth Guildhall is on the ground floor level with a gentle ramp into the main foyer area.
All areas are accessible by lift.
We will be opening the ticket booking system in mid-April.
Graduates will be able to book a place and two free guest tickets at this time.
We then temporarily close the booking system at the beginning of May to review the numbers for each ceremony and to confirm the final schedule.
We hope we don't need to make any changes, but sometimes this cannot be avoided.
If we do need to make any changes to the ceremonies schedule, we will inform anyone affected as soon as possible.
Once we've done, graduates may be able to purchase extra tickets (dependent on capacity).
All of our ceremonies will be streamed live via YouTube.
Be sure to check back soon for the 2025 ceremony playlist link.
We'll send you regular emails, to your student email address, advising you on how to prepare for graduation, when to book your tickets, your gown and other relevant information.
We will also update the graduation web pages regularly with information on how to prepare for before, during and after graduation , and what to expect on the day .
If you're a guest attending a graduation ceremony, find out how to prepare by exploring our guest information page .
During the booking for your graduation ceremony, you would have been asked if you gave consent to appear in both the printed class list and the online Order of Candidates.
Neither of these consents affects if you will be read out for your ceremony.
Our supplier, Graduation Attire, has a dedicated booking page where graduates can book graduation attire.
Book Gowning
As a graduate, you can check details about the eligibility criteria to attend graduation on our graduation pages .
If you're still unsure or have any concerns about your eligibility contact myport@port.ac.uk .
Please contact us at graduation@port.ac.uk and we will respond as soon as possible.
Your entitlement to attend graduation depends on your course of study, and your eligibility to attend is based on your academic achievement.
Details on eligibility can be found on our graduation page .
In general, if you are studying a course at the University of Portsmouth, either in Portsmouth, distance learning or at our London campus that has one of the following award designations, you should be entitled to attend a graduation ceremony:
In some cases, if you are studying at one of our partner institutions, you may also be entitled to attend a University of Portsmouth graduation ceremony.
You should check with your home institution first.
For any other queries about whether your course of study entitles you to attend a graduation ceremony or about academic eligibility, please contact the MyPort Information Hub at myport@port.ac.uk .
If you can’t or don't want to attend graduation, graduates should select “Attend in absentia” via MyGraduation on Student View .
Graduate names will still be printed in the class list (provided consent has been given), but will not be read out.
Please note that the times listed on the schedule are the start times for the ceremony.
To ensure a smooth and stress-free experience, we kindly ask that graduates and guests arrive with plenty of time to spare.
The doors of the Guildhall will open about one hour before the ceremony begins, and you should be seated 10 minutes before the ceremony starts.
If you or your guests are late arriving, you may not be allowed into the ceremony.
We understand that you may have many questions as the ceremony day approaches, and we’re here to keep you informed.
As we get closer to the ceremony dates, we’ll be updating the website with more detailed information to help graduates and guests prepare.
Please check back regularly, and don't hesitate to reach out if you need any support in the meantime.
If both courses are eligible, graduates can celebrate achievements for each course if they fall in the same year.
Graduates should receive an invitation from the Graduation Team to book a ticket for each course studied.
Partner institutions may hold their own graduation ceremonies.
The Graduation team will be in contact if you are eligible to attend a graduation ceremony at the University of Portsmouth.
If you have a query about your eligibility to attend a University of Portsmouth graduation ceremony, contact the home institution for more details, or contact the Graduation Team on graduation@port.ac.uk .
Graduates will not be able to attend graduation with any outstanding tuition fees or other University-related debt, such as library fines or halls fees.
Any outstanding debt should be settled before 11 July 2025 and graduates can make payments via Student View.
Make a payment
Graduates can also contact the finance team by email at income@port.ac.uk , or by calling +44 (0) 23 9284 5533 .
We appreciate managing debt can be challenging and stressful.
Support and advice is available from our Student Support Services team by contacting them below.
Email us Call us
We will consider requests to defer attendance at graduation in exceptional circumstances, such as (but not limited to):
Deferral would usually only be granted for one academic year.
A deferral will not normally be granted due to attendance at other events (such as holidays).
Graduates due to graduate this year will be able to submit a deferral request when the MyGraduation booking system opens.
Evidence of exceptional circumstances must be provided, and supporting documents can be uploaded when filling in the form.
Deferrals should be submitted before the booking system closes.
Graduates who were unable to attend and due to graduate last year, please contact the graduation team to discuss your options.
The decision is made on behalf of the Academic Registrar and cannot be changed once it has been confirmed.
We appreciate that not all circumstances can be predicted.
Any issues, after 27 June, that will affect your attendance, please contact the Graduation team as soon as possible.
Request deferral
Ticket bookings will open in mid-April.
At this time, graduates will be able to confirm attendance and book two complimentary guest tickets for the ceremony.
Tickets may be available on the day via the Helpdesk located in Ravelin Sports Hall.
These will be available on a first-come, first-served basis and will not be located with any seating already booked for guests.
The following ceremonies will not have tickets available on the day
Tickets are booked through the MyGraduation page on Student View.
Please note that graduates must book a place for themselves as well as for their guests.
We appreciate that graduates may want to bring extended family, including children.
Please bear in mind that ceremonies are formal events that last up to an hour and a half, and this can be challenging for young children to sit through.
However, there will be space on campus, at the White Swan Studio behind the New Theatre Royal on Guildhall Walk, for additional guests to watch the ceremonies on screen for free.
Children 14 and under must be accompanied by an adult guest (18 or over).
Book in Student View
The deadline for guaranteeing a place at this year’s graduation ceremonies is 2 May 2025.
If graduates do not book a place by the deadline, we cannot guarantee a space will be available on the same ceremony as fellow coursemates.
We will try to find a space at a suitable alternative ceremony as necessary.
It may be possible to purchase additional tickets if there is capacity at the Guildhall at a later date.
If additional tickets are available, these will be on sale no later than 19 May 2025.
The deadline for purchasing additional tickets is 27 June 2025.
When ticket bookings open on 14 April 2025, graduates will be able to book complimentary tickets for themselves and two guests.
Please note that graduates will not be sitting with guests during the ceremony.
Once the initial booking period closes on 2 May 2025, we will email graduates if additional guest tickets are available to purchase.
Ticket bookings will re-open no later than 19 May 2025.
Additional tickets will cost £20 for persons aged 15 and over and £5 for those under 15.
To give everybody the same opportunity, additional tickets, where available, will initially be limited to two guests per student.
If more become available, graduates will be contacted by email.
Please do not wait until you know your results to book tickets, formal photography and/or academic dress.
If graduates do not book tickets before the deadline, we cannot guarantee a space at a ceremony with fellow coursemates.
If graduates can’t attend a graduation ceremony due to academic reasons, a full refund from the University and its external providers will be issued.
Please bear in mind that the ceremony is a formal occasion and lasts for around 1-1.5 hours.
Depending on whether a child is comfortable sitting for that long, guests with young children may wish to watch the ceremony live online.
The ceremony will be live-streamed on the University’s YouTube channel for any guests who are unable to attend in person.
We will also have a viewing room in White Swan Building for those guests who are unable to get tickets for the Guildhall.
The capacity of this room is approximately 75 and seats are available on a first come first served basis.
There is space at the front of the room to accommodate prams/pushchairs and wheelchairs/mobility scooters.
Once the room is full we will be unable to accommodate any additional people
There is no space for prams/pushchairs in the main auditorium, and these will need to be left in the Octagon area of the Guildhall.
Please note that children cannot be left unattended and must be accompanied by a responsible adult at all times.
First guest tickets must be an adult ticket (15 and over).
Please be aware that children under 14 must be accompanied by an adult guest over the age of 18 (unfortunately, graduates can't supervise children, as guests are seated in a different area of the auditorium).
Children are not permitted to sit in the student seating area.
The safety and well-being of children are the responsibility of accompanying adults.
Children cannot be cared for by the University of Portsmouth or Portsmouth Guildhall members of staff.
Children are not allowed to accompany graduates across the stage.
If graduates or guests need specific seating or need help accessing the venue, let us know when you book your tickets by using the ‘additional requirements’ fields.
We’ll do our best to accommodate your request.
If you’ve already booked tickets, graduates can update bookings by logging into MyGraduation via Student View .
If graduates or guests have a registered carer, we’ll provide an additional free companion ticket.
Let us know if you need a companion ticket by providing details in the ‘additional requirements’ field when booking guest tickets using the "My Graduation" tab in S tudent View .
We may contact graduates to confirm exactly what requirements are needed so you have the best possible experience on the day.
If graduates or guests use a wheelchair, let us know by using the ‘additional requirements’ field when you book your tickets.
If graduates haven’t booked tickets by the deadline, please contact the Graduation team on graduation@port.ac.uk.
It may not be possible for graduates to attend a ceremony if tickets are not booked within the ticket booking period.
To cancel tickets, graduates should log in to Student View and select the MyGraduation tab.
If graduates have made any other bookings, such as for gown hire or photography, please remember to cancel them.
Refunds for these services are handled directly by the respective companies, and the University cannot be held responsible for any funds lost.
We encourage you to reach out to those companies as soon as possible to discuss options.
Any graduate who is unable to attend a graduation ceremony due to academic reasons will automatically receive a full refund of any monies paid to the University or any of its external suppliers.
Otherwise, refunds will only be given in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement, illness (family member or graduate), deployment, visa refusal, or jury service.
As a rule, refunds will not be given if graduates decide to attend another event (such as a holiday or wedding) rather than graduation.
If graduates make any other bookings, such as for gown hire or photography, please remember to cancel them.
Any request for a refund should be submitted within 30 days of the last graduation ceremony by contacting the Graduation team at graduation@port.ac.uk .
Supporting evidence will be required for the refund to be considered.
All refunds will be credited to the account used when making the original payment.
If you’re unable to attend your Graduation ceremony due to academic reasons, you’ll automatically receive a full refund of any monies paid to the University or any of its external suppliers.
(This doesn’t include if you’re eligible to attend the Graduation ceremony if you’ve been awarded an Ordinary Degree.)
If graduates or any guests receive a visa refusal, graduates should cancel the relevant tickets via MyGraduation on Student View and upload evidence of the visa refusal.
We’ll then review the request for a refund of your ticket bookings.
You will need to arrange for refunds with other companies e.g.
academic dress and photography suppliers.
Exceptional circumstances Exceptional circumstances that could result in a refund include (but are not limited to):
To request a refund for exceptional circumstances, cancel the relevant tickets via MyGraduation on Student View and upload evidence of the exceptional circumstances.
We’ll then review the request for a refund.
Typically, graduates and guests are only allowed to attend the ceremony that is scheduled for a specific school or department.
If graduates are unable to attend a designated ceremony due to exceptional circumstances, request a deferral to a different day or the following year.
This can be done through the MyGraduation section on Student View .
Our official gowning company is Graduation Attire .
Bookings will open 14 April 2025.
Graduates will receive an email from the Graduation team when the booking system is available.
As our official gowning company, Graduation Attire has an in-depth knowledge of the University’s academic attire requirements and will provide the correct gown and hood based on the award.
It is recommended that graduates hire or purchase the appropriate academic dress as soon as possible after the booking system opens.
This ensures enough time to correct any errors and answer any queries.
The booking system will close on 6 June 2025.
Whilst graduates may be able to book academic attire after this date, it is likely to incur a late booking fee.
If graduates do not book academic dress in good time, we cannot guarantee that the appropriate academic dress will be available on the day.
Availability on the day is not guaranteed, and costs may be different from the advance booking prices.
Academic dress will be available for collection in advance of graduation ceremonies.
Graduation Attire staff will be on hand in Ravelin Sports Centre to assist with gowning.
We recommend you give yourself at least an hour to collect and get dressed in your academic attire.
Graduates will also receive a text when the academic dress is ready to collect.
More detailed information will be available on the Graduation Attire booking site , once you start your booking
The prices below are for Graduation 2025 and are for guidance only:
*Extended hire means returning your gown using the pre-paid Royal Mail bag within 7 days of your ceremony.
Graduation is a formal event, so we recommend graduates and guests dress smartly, however, it is also important that you are comfortable and can move easily.
Gowns and hoods often come with a button loop at the front.
This enables graduates to secure the attire to a top button and stops it from sliding backwards.
Safety pins are a handy thing to bring if you are planning on wearing something with no buttons!
Ideally, we would like graduates to pre-book photography packages online as this will save time on the day.
Even if photography has not been booked, do come along on the day of the ceremony with family/guests to the studios, which will be located on the first floor of the Ravelin Sports Centre.
Note, there may be a short wait time for a studio to be available.
Book Photography
Please note that Graduation Attire pays the University a commission.
This is standard across the university sector.
This commission is reinvested by the University into the running and organisation of the graduation event.
All Graduation Attire’s photographers are experts and will know how to get the best pictures.
Listen carefully to the photographer's instructions and try not to be distracted by others.
The photography packages allow up to two "poses", with the opportunity to arrange additional "poses" on the day of the event by consulting with the photography team.
Graduation Attire’s photographers will capture a variety of shots for each "pose", offering a selection of images to choose from.
We recommend that there be no more than seven people in a group picture.
Groups with more than seven individuals (graduates included) will be charged an additional £25.00.
The maximum number of people we can accommodate in a single photograph is fifteen.
This policy ensures that each person is professionally positioned against the backdrop for optimal presentation.
For those wanting to have larger groups, we recommend contacting the customer service team at service@graduationattire.co.uk in advance of the ceremony for further advice.
Group photographs take time as everyone needs to be ready to have their picture taken.
Make sure everyone is listening to the photographer as they direct everyone where to stand or sit (if required) for the photograph, and when they are ready to take the pictures, everyone must stop talking, and look towards the photographer.
There are plenty of locations which we think make for a lovely background for photos.
Here are some suggestions:
We also know how amazing the exterior of Ravelin Sports Centre is, we just ask that no photographs are taken right in front of the windows of the swimming pool or gym, as members of the public will be using the facilities.
Student speakers commit to engage in a professional process, speaking on behalf of their cohort to celebrate their time at university, and their achievements, and to thank the University and its services on behalf of all the students at the ceremony.
To be selected, speeches need to fulfil certain requirements, and speakers will be asked to attend a series of training events.
As part of the application process, an outline of what you would like to say must be provided.
To be successful, the Student Speech needs to reflect some key elements, which are outlined below.
Please note the University reserves the right to require amendments to content which does not meet the terms of the speech, or withdraw speakers if they have difficulties adhering to the terms of the speech.
Applications open until midday on 7 March 2025.
Any applications received after this time may not be considered.
Before applying, please:
If you think you have what it takes, complete this form below to apply.
Apply to be a Student Speaker
Graduates selected for interviews will be notified by 17 March 2025.
We regret that we cannot give further feedback to those who are unsuccessful.
Please ensure that you have access to your Student View .
If you haven't used Student View before, please sign in with the same username and password you used for the old student portal.
If you have forgotten your username or password, please contact the IS Service Desk on +44 (0)23 9284 7777 or via email on servicedesk@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise:
Delve deeper into the research work we're doing in our areas of expertise
Collaborative, multi-disciplinary and always relevant, our work seeks answers to big questions shaping the future of the planet and society.
We're already making an impact with several recent major breakthroughs – from the discovery of a new mutant enzyme that could help defeat plastic pollution, to pioneering work exploring the mysteries of the earliest moments of the Universe.
Browse our areas of expertise below and learn more about our research, our publication highlights and our research projects.
Find out more about research at the University of Portsmouth.
Discover our research groups, centres, institutes, clusters, networks and labs, exploring pressing global issues and ground-breaking research.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/podcasts/life-solved:
Life Solved is set to spark conversation for curious thinkers and those who like to be in the know on the latest innovations in technology, medicine, the environment, social theory and beyond.
In each weekly episode, researchers talk in-depth about pioneering research, tackle thought-provoking questions, and explore life-changing innovations - from outsmarting criminals with VR and the evolution of cybersexualities , to how failure informs space research , and science could help you survive a zombie apocalypse.
You can listen to Life Solved on all major podcast players, whether via Apple, Spotify, Google Podcasts or other apps.
Just search for ‘Life Solved’ and press the subscribe button.
Use the links below to jump between each series of Life Solved.
How to join in with the University's research:
Work with us
Support us
Study with us
Contact the Life Solved team for more information, on lifesolved@port.ac.uk .
Series 1
Series 2
Series 3
Series 4
Series 5
Series 6
Series 7
Series 8
Series 9
Series 10
Series 11
Series 12
Series 13
Series 14
In the latest series of the Life Solved podcast we peer inside prisons, examine our wasteful water habits, take a journey to the South Pole for science, ask what architecture has to offer the world, and speak to female rowers trying to save our seas.
21 March 2024
22 min listen
28 March 2024
4 April 2024
18 min listen
18 April 2024
25 min listen
24 April 2024
2 May 2024
20 min listen
23 May 2024
30 min listen
In the latest series of the Life Solved podcast we discuss the History of the Horror Genre, the reality of radiation and address Fukushima fake news, are UFOs real, Incels and TikTok, how cravings affect our senses, and when will the cost of living crisis end?
26 October 2023
21 min listen
16 November 2023
19 min listen
23 November 2023
23 min listen
30 November 2023
11 January 2024
25 January 2024
24 min listen
10 August 2023
37 min listen
17 August 2023
24 August 2023
31 August 2023
7 September 2023
14 September 2023
21 September 2023
20 April 2023
27 April 2023
11 May 2023
18 May 2023
15 min listen
25 May 2023
13 min Listen
8 June 2023
19 min Listen
5 January 2023
16 min listen
In this episode of Life Solved, Dr Fay Couceiro shares the latest on an exciting partnership between the University of Portsmouth and a 2,000 mile competitive rowing event!
12 January 2023
19 January 2023
34 min listen
26 January 2023
17 min listen
2 February 2023
9 February 2023
23 February 2023
27 min listen
1 March 2023
9 March 2023
16 March 2023
14 min listen
22 December 2022
27 min Listen
8 September 2022
15 September 2022
21 min read
29 September 2022
31 min read
6 October 2022
14 min read
13 October 2022
20 October 2022
18 min Listen
27 October 2022
3 November 2022
10 November 2022
Dr Bethany Simmonds and Dr Emma Maynard share their insights, perspectives and solutions on two vital areas of social support in the UK
26 April 2022
Dr Ian Hendy shares some insights into the incredible capacity these natural ecosystems hold in the fight against climate change
3 May 2022
32 min listen
Dr Vasileios Karagiannopoulos explains what we mean by crime in the ‘cyber’ world and how we can protect ourselves and our organisations
10 May 2022
Professor Deborah Sugg Ryan and Dr Melanie Bassett discuss insights revealed by the 1921 Census and a few of the mysteries they've been following through the archives too
17 May 2022
40 min listen
Professor Adam Amara shares an inspirational chat about why he loves astronomy, from dark matter to pub-table debates and discovering planets
24 May 2022
Top historians and researchers from the University of Portsmouth discuss the pattern of events of 1982 Falklands War and ask whether such a conflict could happen again
31 May 2022
Researcher Christina Scott is taking a closer look at a pathogen that might be doing some mysterious good in our ecosystems
6 June 2022
In this episode, we meet up with Professor Steve Fletcher to explore a step-change in the way we’re thinking about the oceans as a natural resource
14 June 2022
24 minute listen
In this special new series of Life Solved, we explore the trends, changes and innovations that are taking place in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Across 5 episodes, find out how life is changing for all of us, and University of Portsmouth researchers share their findings, ideas and observations on what a post-Covid future might look like.
For the rest of this series of Life Solved, we’re delving into the world of wildlife crime.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/fellowships:
Take the steps to further your career
If you are considering a fellowship as your next career move here are some steps to take:
Fellowships come in all shapes and sizes and are often aimed at specific career stages and prioritise different activities.
You will need to find organisations that fund research in your discipline and check out the opportunities on offer.
Details of some of the more common fellowship opportunities can be accessed here:
The UK Research Councils also have other fellowship opportunities that can be found on their Funding Finder .
Explore our research areas
Then make contact with someone from that area who you feel could be your supervisor or mentor (as appropriate) for the fellowship opportunity you wish to apply for.
Work with your internal contact and our professional support colleagues to complete your application.
If you have any questions on pursuing fellowship opportunities at Portsmouth, please contact us by email at grants@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/space:
Discover pioneering research work taking place at the University — and meet some of the researchers behind it
Public imagination is often focused on space exploration such as rockets, spacecraft, and Mars missions, and in Portsmouth we have developed a new Mission Design facility to help people design spacecraft and missions.
In addition to these exciting and inspiring missions, space science has a huge impact on our lives on Earth keeping us connected, improving our health and protecting the environment.
Through our globally-important research and innovation in space technologies, the University of Portsmouth is helping to strengthen the UK as a world-class space nation.
We are working to develop a Portsmouth Research Institute for Space Missions (PRISM) which will bring all our space activity under one roof, including mission design, and will be closely connected to our Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation (ICG) .
The ICG is a world-leading astronomy centre with an international reputation for research excellence that covers theoretical cosmology, observational cosmology, extragalactic astrophysics, and gravitational waves.
ICG scientists are also turning their expertise to analysing astronomical data to solve problems on Earth.
For example, they work with geographers and others to predict natural disasters and combat climate change and are using algorithms used for detecting exploding stars to spot changes in moles to detect early warning signs for skin cancer.
The University also plays a critical role in supporting space industries in the UK: we're home to ASTA Technology , the UK’s only ESA-accredited provider of space engineering training, and a founding partner of Space South Central .
Partnering with industry to make the UK a leading space nation.
Find out more, and how you can partner with us, in our brochure.
Download brochure
Find out more about how our space research contributes to the commercial space industry and entrepreneurship.
The first study in the University of Portsmouth’s new Space Mission Incubator saw science and engineering experts working together in real time to rapidly develop a space mission that will place a small satellite in orbit around the Moon.
18 July 2023
A unique new mission design service, inspired by NASA JPL, has won £100k funding from the UK Space Agency for its set-up phase at the University of Portsmouth.
7 June 2023
19 March 2025
20 September 2024
9 October 2023
4 October 2023
8 August 2023
5 February 2024
13 October 2023
Dr Lucinda King
13 June 2023
Christopher Pattison
8 March 2023
Find out more about our innovation activities and space-related projects, including our partnerships with Space South Central, ASTA Technology, and the Horizons 5G network.
We champion regional space cluster activity.
The University is an integral part of locally-led innovation clusters working to fulfil the space sector’s ambitions.
We’re a founding partner of Space South Central , a partnership between industry and academia, designed to catalyse investment and deliver missions and capability.
We also launched Mission Space in 2022, an exciting strategy promoting cohesion among key players in the South of England to drive growth in the sector.
Our research has been undertaken with various industry partners including aerospace primes such as Airbus, BAE Systems and QinetiQ.
Our software team in ICG explores innovative applications of astrophysics data analytics tools, and plays leading roles in the science requirements, design and analysis of data from many space and ground-based telescopes.
This includes major international projects such as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST), the European Space Agency Euclid satellite , the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO), and the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA).
The University of Portsmouth is well-placed to help the space industry — from our wealth of world-leading space expertise and track record of successful partnerships in space-related research and innovation, to our location at the heart of the UK space sector.
The National Space Strategy recognises that academia and research institutes are a vital component to growing the UK space sector.
The strategy acknowledges the contribution of universities to world-class Earth and space research, nurturing talent and space engineers, and unleashing innovation.
Explore the Solent area's contribution to the space sector, from rockets to satellite data.
See how we're contributing to knowledge, training and industry outreach.
Download Solent Space brochure
Explore our Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation (ICG) and the space-related research taking place in our Future & Emerging Technologies theme.
Read in-depth features on the pioneering work being done by our researchers.
Find out more about the research work being done by three of our leading space-focused researchers.
Together, we can take a giant leap towards realising the ambitions of the UK Space Strategy.
We would love to discuss your projects with you to explore how research and innovation can deliver your goals for investment, product and talent development, and business growth.
Lucinda King Space Project Manager lucinda.king@port.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)23 9284 5151

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/agile-centre-for-equitable-sustainability:
Exploring scalable solutions for sustainable development challenges
The Centre for Equitable Sustainability at the University of Portsmouth aims to achieve world-class standing in the field of sustainability, focusing on engendering action and innovation to address the challenges that hinder our journey toward an equitable and sustainable society.
At the heart of our centre’s objectives is the proposal of scalable solutions for sustainable development challenges.
We aim to provide agile and evidence-based response to sustainability police needs and wicked sustainability problems.
We will prioritize areas such as sustainable consumption and production, global equity, justice and inclusion, sustainable infrastructure, energy, climate change governance, as well as biodiversity and wildlife protection.
Overall, the Centre will develop and facilitate inter-disciplinary research activities to create opportunities for impactful research that not only drives knowledge exchange but also engages communities and establishes key partnerships with local organisations and beyond.
Sub-topics include:
James, T.
J., Mayes, H., Alnajjar, M., Newell, Y., Kohlert, E., Shute, J., Perissiou, M., Corbett, J., Costello, J.
T., Neupert, E., Moore, J.
M., Morgan, P.
T., Simms, C., Saynor, Z.
L., Shepherd, A.
I.
15 May 2025, In: The Journal of Nutritional Physiology.
1, 11p., 100003
Research output: Article
Kesgin, M., Can, A.
S., Ding, L., Legg, M., Schuler, D.
1 Apr 2025, In: International Journal of Hospitality Management.
126, 13p., 104037
Ozer, M., Can, A.
S., Ekinci, Y., Özer, A.
21 Jan 2025, In: Journal of Travel Research
Arshad, R., Chakhar, S., Hedaux, S., Williams, N.
L., Smart, E., Simms, C., Bolle, J.
17 Jan 2025,
Research output: Conference contribution
Haddy, E.
C., Burden, F., Raw, Z., Rodrigues, J., Zappi, H., Brown, J., Kaminski, J., Proops, L.
1 Jan 2025, In: Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science.
28, 1, p.
116–134
Abrishami, S., Cinar, E., Ghaffari, M., Simms, C., Vazquez-Brust, D.
31/03/2025 → 31/03/2026
Alberti, F., Bailey-Ross, C., Cox, J., McBride, K.
04/09/2023 → 04/09/2026
The PlastiCity project aimed to increase commercial and industrial plastic recycling rates in the 2 Seas Region (United-Kingdom, France, Netherlands and Belgium) from 20-30% to 50%.
It developed new solutions and strategies for localising, collecting, recycling, and reusing “lost plastics” in urban environments.
Karen.Middleton@port.ac.uk
Sepehr.Abrishami@port.ac.uk
School of Civil Engineering and Surveying
Faculty of Technology
Associate Dean (Research and Innovation)
Diego.Vazquez-Brust@port.ac.uk
Ali.Can@port.ac.uk
Associate Head (Global)
Rui.Yang@port.ac.uk
Organisation Studies and Human Resource Management
Myropi.Garri@port.ac.uk
Strategy Enterprise and Innovation
Professor of Marketing and Sales
Yuksel.Ekinci@port.ac.uk
Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research
Jana.Ries@port.ac.uk
Professor of Power Systems Engineering
Victor.Becerra@port.ac.uk
School of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering
Mahsa.Ghaffari@port.ac.uk
Matthew.Anderson@port.ac.uk
Professor of Innovation Management and New Product Development
Chris.Simms@port.ac.uk
Roza.Sagitova@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Architectural Heritage
Tarek.Teba@port.ac.uk
Professor of International Law
Theme Professor (Democratic Citizenship)
Leila.Choukroune@port.ac.uk
School of Law
Professor of Accounting
Karen.McBride@port.ac.uk
School of Accounting, Economics and Finance
Professor of Economics
Pierre.Failler@port.ac.uk
Economics and Finance
Barry.Smart@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Urban Studies and Architecture
Guido.Robazza@port.ac.uk
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation)
Nigel.Williams@port.ac.uk
School of Organisations, Systems, and People
Director of Innovation
Nick.Pamment@port.ac.uk
Lester.Hunt@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Arts and Sustainability
Cressida.Bowyer@port.ac.uk
For research-related enquiries, please contact: diego.vazquez-brust@port.ac.uk
For postgraduate research enquiries, please contact: ali.can@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/aipa-hub:
Find out more about our expertise in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
The University of Portsmouth’s Artificial Intelligence and its Practical Applications (AIPA) Hub brings together diverse areas of expertise in the development and use of AI from across the university.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has long been an active and exciting branch of research.
Now more than ever, AI is in the spotlight as a technology that is about to make a significant impact on all aspects of life.
AI’s practical applications touch us all on a daily basis, and its effects spread across a whole range of societal and industrial sectors.
From health and wellbeing to entertainment and education, from business and logistics, recent and ongoing advancements in the field mean that businesses and industries are increasingly looking at the ways that AI research can be used to innovate the workplace and society in general.
The Hub comprises more than 50 academic staff from all five faculties of the university.
The Hub has been formed at an exciting time for both the development and application of AI.
The UK’s first National AI Strategy sets out the use of AI to increase resilience, productivity, growth and innovation across the private and public sectors.
The University of Portsmouth is well aligned to the strategy through its work on AI's fundamentals and applications across diverse sectors and industries.
The UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Challenge Fund addresses big societal challenges grouped around four core topics; artificial intelligence and data, ageing society, clean growth, and the future of mobility.
While the first of these challenges aims to put the UK at the forefront of the AI and data revolution, the other three are all likely to be increasingly influenced by the developments in AI.
The AIPA Hub is strategically well-placed to support cross-disciplinary collaboration, as well as encouraging external projects and partnerships, thereby stimulating economic growth within the wider community.
The AIPA Hub aims to consolidate capability in the development and use of AI across the University of Portsmouth.
It brings together dispersed colleagues with expertise in AI techniques or an interest in the application of AI in their own disciplines.
By bringing together such a spectrum of experience and expertise in the development and use of AI, the Hub helps to provide coherence and coordination to the University’s research and innovation objectives.
It helps to build cross-disciplinary linkages, facilitate external partnerships, and attract AI-related funding.
Expertise in AI at the University is dispersed among areas where it can make a positive impact, from business to health and from engineering to the arts.
I am excited about the AIPA Hub as it brings together those practical perspectives and our fundamental AI research specialisms in a coordinated manner.
AIPA comprises more than 50 academics across the disciplines.
The diffuse nature of the University’s expertise could have been a weakness, but AIPA turns it into a strength.
Professor Adrian Hopgood, Theme Director, Future & Emerging Technologies
The AIPA Hub has been set up with two key aims in mind; the development of tools and the development of applications.
Take a closer look at the work we're doing across our related Research Themes and Research Areas.
We're fuelling technological advances in animation, visual effects (VFX), cross reality (XR), user experience (UX), computer and video games, and visual computing.
Discover the work we do.
We're improving the design of computer systems and wellbeing services to make the delivery of healthcare more efficient and cost-effective, and we're exploring how technology can influence lifestyle choices and reduce health risks.
The cross-faculty Intelligent Transport Cluster unites innovators and users with academics across the University, to promote long-term competitiveness in Land, Air and Marine transport systems.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/autism-centre-for-research-on-employment:
Supporting autistic adults in finding and retaining employment
ACRE was developed to address the gap in provision for autistic adults in terms of employment, and to facilitate job retention by developing tools to support employers in the process of making work adaptations tailored to their autistic employees.
In an interview for Autism Awareness month, Beatriz Lopez explains about the work undertaken by the Autism Centre for Research on Employment, which was recognised by the National Autistic Society with the award for Outstanding Adult Services in 2016.
ACRE works to empower and support autistic people to realise their full employment potential.
Specially we aim to:
The Autism Centre for Research Employment (ACRE) focuses on conducting employment research and developing services to improve the job opportunities of people on the Autism Spectrum without, or with mild, learning disabilities.
The Autism Employment Toolkit aims to introduce you, or the person you support, to the most relevant issues you need to know about when preparing, looking or staying at work.
ACRE offers a comprehensive assessment service to autistic people in employment or actively seeking employment.
The assessment covers different areas as Career Interests, Employability Skills, Executive functioning, Sensory Sensitivities and Social and Communication skills.
The assessment tools have been developed by the ACRE team specifically for work settings.
The Individual Employment Profile report resulting from the assessment process offers information about the individual profile of the autistic person and also offers specific recommendations to employers regarding strengths and adaptations in the work place needed.
We provide specialist training to professionals from employment agencies, local authorities and charitable organisations.
The training provided can be tailored to the particular organisation but will always be based on the best evidence research practice available as well as providing practical tips for supporting this population.
We also provide person-centred training to employers with the aim to create a supportive and productive working environment, and help to overcome any potential challenges that may arise in the initial stages of employment.
If you would like to apply for our services or receive more information, please contact us by email at acre@port.ac.uk or call us directly at +44 (0) 23 9284 2016 .
It has been long established that autistic people may find it difficult reading other people's emotions.
Similarly, it has also been shown that non-autistic people have a limited understanding of the emotional reactions of people on the Autism Spectrum.
To date, however, there is little information about how communication works on mixed pairs of autistic and non-autistic people.
This project aims to test precisely that.
The outcome of this project will have important implications for workplace relations between employees on the Autism Spectrum and other workers.
The grant awarded from the Department of Health: Autism Innovation Fund to the Autism Centre for Research on Employment at the University of Portsmouth has been employed in the creation of an innovative cost-effective Profiling Assessment© service, developed to enhance the job prospects of people on the Autism Spectrum without learning disabilities.
The main outcomes of this project were:
(i) Production of employment and autism-specific Profiling Assessment© tools.
(ii) An evaluation report which demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of the PA© tools in increased rates of clients reporting that the employer had made the right adjustments.
(iii) Provision of fifteen work placements for people on the Autism Spectrum.
This programme is supported by European Union, DWP, Princes Trust, Autism Hampshire and SCC.
The programme focus is to inform, inspire and connect local employers, organisations who provide volunteer opportunities and training, employment agencies.
ACRE will conduct an research study to identify predictors of employment outcomes and to evaluate the impact of the programme on wellbeing and employment outcomes.
Milton, D., Gurbuz, E., Lopez, B.
(2022) "The ‘double empathy problem’: ten years on", Autism
Lopez, B., Kargas, N., Udell, J., Rubin, T., Byrgess, L., Drew, D., McDonald, I., O'Brien, A., Templeton-Mepstead, K.
(2021) "Evaluation of the ACE employment programme: helping employers to make tailored adjustments for their autistic employees", Advances in Autism
Mac Cárthaigh, S., Lopez, B.
(2020) "Factually based autism awareness campaigns may not always be effective in changing attitudes towards autism: evidence from British and South Korean nursing students", Autism
Raymaker, D.M., Sharer, M., Maslak, J., Powers, L.E., McDonald, K.E., Kapp, S.K., Moura, I., Wallington, A.F., Nicolaidis, C.
(2023) "“[I] don’t wanna just be like a cog in the machine”: Narratives of autism and skilled employment", Autism
Azevedo, F., Middleton, S., Mai Phan, J., Kapp, S.K., Gourdon-Kanhukamwe, A., Iley, B., Elsherif, M.M., Shaw, J.J.
(2022) "Navigating academia as neurodivergent researchers: promoting neurodiversity within open scholarship", Association for Psychological Science
Cheriyan, C., Shevchuk-Hill, S., Riccio, A., Vincent, J., Kapp, S.K., Cage, E., Dwyer, P., Kofner, B., Attwood, H., Gillespie-Lynch, K.
(2021) "Exploring the career motivations, strengths, and challenges of autistic and non-autistic university students: insights from a participatory study", Frontiers in Psychology
Waisman, T.C., Williams, Z.J., Cage, E., Santhanam, S.P., Magiati, I., Dwyer, P., Stockwell, K.M., Kofner, B.
Brown, H., Davidson, D., Herrell, J., Shore, S.M., Caudel, D., Gurbuz, E., Gillespie-Lynch, K.
(2023) "Learning from the experts: evaluating a participatory autism and universal design training for university educators", Autism
Professor of Developmental Psychology
Beatriz.Lopez@port.ac.uk
Emine.Gurbuz@port.ac.uk
Steven.Kapp@port.ac.uk
Mark.Haydon-Laurelut@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-applied-geosciences:
Research that helps communities adapt to environmental change and improves sustainability
The Centre for Applied Geoscience (CAG) brings together applied geoscience research and consultancy activities across four departments.
We specialise in the investigation and management of natural and manmade hazards and the conservation of our geo-heritage.
We study our planet – from its oceans and rivers, to its complex geology.
We investigate the atmosphere above us, and delve into the depths of our planet's metallic core.
We observe how animals and living things — including humans — impact Earth, and measure the past, present, and future behaviour of our planet.
There's never been more of a global focus on improving sustainability, tackling climate change and managing the changes to our planet caused by human activity.
Our research has a direct impact on communities, helping them adapt to environmental change and improve the resilience and sustainability of homes, jobs and cultures.
Members of the team are internationally recognised experts in the fields of Engineering Geology & Geomorphology, Geotechnical Engineering, Remote Sensing, Disaster Management and Geographical Analyses.
See our related research groups:
We're looking at the Earth's changing environment and the influence of human activity on climate and ecosystems.
We're exploring how fossil records can help us understand past climates and environments, and effectively predict and model climate change and its impact on the Earth’s ecosystems.
Along with research commissioned by industrial partners, our work is supported by:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-blue-governance:
Securing the future of the planet's marine and freshwaters
Aquatic environments cover more than 70% of our planet's surface, and the value of the global oceans is estimated to be US$24 trillion.
Our international community of inter-disciplinary researchers are working to tackle challenges impacting aquatic systems worldwide.
These include the climate, pollution, and biodiversity crises, and the safeguarding of human health and wellbeing.
We are committed to research that supports evidence-driven policy and decision-making, and better governance of our aquatic environments for the common good.
New holistic solutions are urgently needed.
Use the links below to jump to different sections of the page
Our mission
UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance
Research projects
Affiliated research centres and groups
Publication highlights
Latest news and blogs
Recent events and seminars
Centre management
Research themes
Our PhD students
The Blue Review newsletter
See our latest research
Subscribe to our newsletter
Collaborate and learn with us
The Centre for Blue Governance (CBG) aims to promote sustainable aquatic resource management through research, policy development, social and environmental justice, and education.
We provide inter-disciplinary expertise to create and implement blue growth strategies in countries and political entities around the world.
We also strive to expand blue economic perspectives by encompassing marine and freshwater systems and conceptualising them as development spaces.
The CBG tackles current research themes as well as elaborating on and supplementing established ideas.
Our work encompasses numerous sub-topics within five central themes.
Explore our themes below.
The blue economy is an economic term relating to the sustainable exploitation of marine and freshwater resources for economic growth, improved livelihoods and jobs, and overall aquatic ecosystem health.
Blue governance is an emerging concept which integrates Blue Economy and Blue Growth with the governance principle.
Governance refers to structures and processes which ensure accountability, transparency, responsiveness, rule of law, stability, equity and inclusiveness, empowerment, and broad-based participation.
Blue Governance therefore relates to the public and private institutional mechanisms (such as institutional coordination, private-public partnerships and institutional arrangements) required to implement Blue Economy and Blue Growth initiatives, strategies and policies.
A UNESCO Chair is a team led by a higher education or research institution that partners with UNESCO on a project to advance knowledge and practice in an area of common priority.
The UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance is led by the Centre for Blue Governance, University of Portsmouth, to develop around the domain of Ocean and inland waters governance (Blue Governance) that is transdisciplinary by nature and includes disciplines such as economics, management, law, policy, ecology, marine biology, geography, transport logistics and information science.
Professor Pierre Failler was appointed as the Chairholder of the UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance in December 2021.
A set of areas relating to education (PhD programme and visiting fellowship), the natural and social sciences, culture and communication, started to develop since then.
Follow us on X @UNESCOChair_OG
The UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance develops around the domain of Ocean and inland waters governance (Blue Governance) that is transdisciplinary by nature.
Dutta Roy, A., Mohan, M., Hendy, I., AlMealla, R., Watt, M.
S., Burt, J.
A., Torres-Florez, J.
P., Almansoori, A., Alzahlawi, N., Abdullah, M., Ali, T., Nithyanandan, M., Aboobacker, V.
M., De-Miguel, S.
1 Aug 2025, In: Science of the Total Environment.
988, 13p., 179805
Evans, T.
R., Ferraro, G., Failler, P.
21 Jul 2025, In: Ocean and Society.
2, 21p., 10319
Currie, H.
A.
L., White, P.
R., Leighton, T.
G., Kemp, P.
S.
11 Jul 2025, In: PLoS One.
20, 7, 19p., e0327092
Clubley, C.
H., Knights, A.
M., Allen, J., Bilton, D.
T., Foggo, A., Hanley, M.
E., Murphy, J., Wood, L.
E., Firth, L.
B.
10 Jul 2025, In: Science of the Total Environment.
985, 13p., 179738
Marx, L., Hale, M., Cael, B.
B., Reynolds, S.
1 Jul 2025, In: Marine Pollution Bulletin.
216, 10p., 117982
12 June 2025
5 December 2024
9 August 2024
19 June 2024
20 November 2023
30 June 2022
Chaired by UoP CBG Theme Lead Dr Gianluca Ferraro, with keynote speakers Professor Raoul Beunen (Open Universiteit, the Netherlands) and Professor Kristof Van Assche (University of Alberta), this BlueGreen Governance webinar introduced 'Evolutionary Governance Theory' and developing strategies for sustainability transitions in coastal governance.
Took place: Tuesday, April 30., 3.30-4.30pm GMT, online
During #GreenWeek2024 at the UoP, the Centre for Blue Governance was delighted to host a free screening of "Deep Rising", a film by Matthieu Rytz, and narrated by Jason Momoa.
This visually stunning film took our viewers inside the companies and technologies seeking to mine the ocean floor, and exposed the inner workings of the international organisation that is writing the rules for seabed mining, scrutinizing the case for and against that exploitation while exploring innovative solutions to both combat climate change and conserve the deep ocean.
It was lovely to see a fantastic turn-out of UoP staff and students at our CBG social event, and it has certainly sparked some interesting follow-on conversations.
Check out our April newsletter for more info!!
Took place: Wednesday, April 24., 4.00-6.00pm GMT, Buckingham Building, Lecture Theatre 1.01
The Centre for Blue Governance and No.6 Cinema were proud to screen the award-winning film Io Capitano , directed by Matteo Garrone, which explores the theme of migration and the plight of migrants on their perilous journey across Africa to reach European shores.
To introduce the central theme of migration, identities and cinematic journeys, the screening was preceded by a short presentation by the CBG Labour and Human Rights Theme Leads, namely Professor Dr Leïla Choukroune (Professor of International Law and Director of the Centre for Global Justice and Rights) and Dr Sophie Quintin (Maritime security expert).
Took place: Thursday 28 November at 7pm at No.6 Cinema, Portsmouth (Bar from 6pm).
Professor Pierre Failler
Director and UNESCO Chairholder
pierre.failler@port.ac.uk
Dr Julia Brown
Deputy Director
Julia.Brown@port.ac.uk
Dr Helen Currie
Centre Manager
helen.currie@port.ac.uk
Dr He Yuan
UNESCO Chair Research Fellow
he.yuan @port.ac.uk
Mr Keiran Deane
Communication
cbg-comms@port.ac.uk
Professor Gordon Watso n
gordon.watson@port.ac.uk
Dr J onathan Potts
Education
jonathan.potts@port.ac.uk
Mr Oliver Hughes
PhD Representative
oliver.hughes@port.ac.uk
For more details on the work of the Centre, please contact Helen Currie by emailing helen.currie@port.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)2392 844184
Sub-topics
Marine and freshwater policies
Maritime security
Spatial planning
Theme lead: Dr Gianluca Ferraro
Deputy: Dr Tegan Evans
Theme lead: Prof.
Leila Choukroune Deputy: Dr Sophie Quintin
Theme lead: Dr Ben Drakeford
Deputy: Andy Forse
Theme lead: Dr Negar Akbari
Deputy: Open chair
Joanne Preston
About: Gregoire’s PhD is centred around three main and interdependent components of Blue Governance, as defined by the CBG.
These components occur at different levels of intervention including: the “decision-making” aspect, i.e., how public policies can positively impact environment management;  marine resources and the public policies which govern them; specific management tools, highlighting how public policies are implemented.
Grégoire is doing a PhD by publication.
Expected completion: 2024
About: Daisy's PhD will be exploring stakeholder and community interactions with marine and coastal nature-based solutions (NbS).
The success of NbS has been connected to the inclusion of the community that surrounds them, with the rationale that by including the community as stakeholders, NbS may be developed with increased longevity, ecosystem services, benefits and acceptance.
The project will evaluate how stakeholder understanding can impact the designation and implementation of marine and coastal nature-based solutions.
Expected completion: 2025
About: Oliver’s PhD focuses on the chemical profiling of polar organics (e.g., pesticides, pharmaceuticals, PFAS, tyre compounds) in chalk-stream rivers using ChemCatcher passive sampling.
The project aims to establish links between the presence and concentration of chemical contaminants and their mixtures, and the health and diversity of macroinvertebrate species.
This work will provide valuable insights into the effects of chemical mixtures on aquatic ecosystems.
Expected completion: 2026
About: Due to post Brexit border control changes, those wishing to seek asylum in the UK are having to use increasingly high risk methods to do so;  mirroring migrant crossings in the Mediterranean.
Using the marine migratory route for small boats in the English Channel, Toby's PhD will investigate the proliferation of drone technology and whether its use propagates the securitisation of asylum seekers and refugees.
Drone technology can be used to search wide areas of the sea, either as part of border control operations or rescue missions.
By investigating the experiences of NGOs, those seeking asylum and governmental organisations the aim is to inform policies and ethical frameworks on the use of drones in the English Channel.
The PhD is funded by the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership, with funds from the UK ESRC, and sitting within the Citizenship, Governance & Security thematic cluster.
About: Henry’s PhD studies emerging environmental contaminants which are used as additives in making car tires.
He is working with other experts to develop priority areas of research within this scope to find sustainable solutions to the rising issues.
His work includes the chemical profiling of UK waters that collect road runoff from major highways.
He also explores the behavioural effects of these contaminants on marine organisms.
About: William’s PhD research will consider three key concepts; Blue Economy, Sustainable Finance and Climate Litigation.
Investors and policymakers are beginning to recognize the growth prospects for the ocean economy, its potential for future employment creation and innovation, and its role in addressing global challenges.
The results of activities connected to ocean, if well-managed, can positively contribute to the continent’s economic take off.
However, these activities including the exploitation of marine resources are mostly capital intensive and do have associated climate/environmental, economic and social impacts.
This brings to fore the need for sustainable financing .
Specific to the associated environmental impacts of ocean activities, this research will look into the concept of climate litigation which is increasingly becoming a focus for the climate change mitigation.
The objective is to establish the nexus between the three concepts and how they feed into sustainable marine resource management.
Expected completion: 2027
Do you have an ambition to combat the challenges facing our coastlines?
Learn about solutions and develop your own strategies to manage our marine resources.
Start date: September 2026 January 2027
Dive into our MSc in Applied Aquatic Biology.
Get set for an exciting career in conservation, consultancy, or research.
Our regular newsletter, the Blue Review, provides an update of CBG activities, recent publications, and project updates.
It also includes a wealth of opportunities such as events to attend, courses, job opportunities and conferences.
Sign up to our newsletter View our newsletter archives
Reach out to us, or follow us on social media
Email us at CBG@port.ac.uk
Follow us on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-comparative-and-evolutionary-psychology:
Discover our research in the Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology (CCEP)
The Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology (CCEP) is a multidisciplinary team of psychologists (developmental, cognitive, social and biological) and behavioural biologists.
Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology is the scientific study of the origins of mind and behaviour, and our work explores the evolutionary processes underpinning human behaviour and the comparison of humans with other animals.
We have particular expertise in comparative social and spatial cognition, emotion, communication and facial expression.
Within the Centre (and in our Dog Cognition Centre ) we are exploring the origins of mind and behaviour through the consideration of evolutionary processes and the comparison of humans with other animals.
We're interested in how social structures are formed and how we can apply evolutionary thinking to understand today's problems.
And through a deeper understanding of the minds and behaviours of animals, we're exploring how humans have evolved – from how social structures are formed, to the ways in which evolutionary thinking can help solve the problems of today.
Our research portal, Pure, has a full list of our staff and researchers working in this area.
You can also follow the Centre on Twitter @UoP_CCEP or email the Centre directly at ccep@port.ac.uk .
Our evolutionary psychology research c overs the following topics:
Lockey-Kennedy, K., West-Brownbill, A., Kaminski, J.
5 Aug 2025, In: Applied Animal Behaviour Science.
292, 6p., 106778
Correia-Caeiro, C., Romero, T., Guo, K., Mills, D.
1 Aug 2025, In: Acta Psychologica.
258, 14p., 105221
Loyant, L., Collins, L.
M., Joly, M.
28 Jul 2025, In: Biological Reviews
Radford, H., Reidinger, B., Kapp, S.
K., de Marchena, A.
20, 7, 21p., e0325465
Waller, B.
M., O’Callaghan, O., Micheletta, J., Whitehouse, J.
16 Jun 2025, In: Nature Reviews Psychology
Haux, L.
M., Engelmann, J.
M., Arslan, R.
C., Hertwig, R., and Herrmann, E.
(2023) "Chimpanzee and human risk preferences show key similarities", Psychological Science.
Clark, P.
R., Waller, B., Agil, M.,and Micheletta, J.
(2022) "Crested macaque facial movements are more intense and stereotyped in potentially risky social interactions", Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B
Taylor, D., Gustafsson, E., Dezecache, G., and Davila-Ross, M.
(2022) "Directedness and engagement in chimpanzee vocal ontogeny", Developmental Science
Grinsted, L., Schou, M.
F., Settepani, V., Holm, C., Chobolo, L., Dintwe, G., and Bilde, T.
(2022) "Diverging cooperative prey capture strategies in convergently evolved social spiders", Journal of Arachnology
Kaminski, J.
(2021) "Domestic dogs: born human whisperers", Current Biology
Bard, K.
A., Keller, H., Ross, K.
M., Hewlett, B., Butler, L., Boysen, S.
T., and Matsuzawa, T.
(2021) "Joint attention in human and chimpanzee infants in varied socio-ecological contexts", Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Developmen t
Lewis, K.
E., Parker, M., Proops, L., and McBride, S.
D.
(2022), "Risk factors for stereotypic behaviour in captive ungulates", Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences
ManyPrimates, Herrmann, E., Joly, M., and Loyant, L.
(Accepted/In press) "The evolution of primate short-term memory", Animal Behavior and Cognition
Associate Professor in Comparative Psychology
Juliane.Kaminski@port.ac.uk
Marina.Davila-Ross@port.ac.uk
Lena.Grinsted@port.ac.uk
Esther.Herrmann@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Cognitive Ethology
Marine.Joly@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Animal Behaviour
Jerome.Micheletta@port.ac.uk
Sophie.Milward@port.ac.uk
Paul.Morris@port.ac.uk
Ed.Morrison@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Animal Behaviour and Welfare
Leanne.Proops@port.ac.uk
Lucy.Bates@port.ac.uk
Teresa.Romero@port.ac.uk
Current postdoctoral researchers: Alan Rincon
Current postgraduate researchers: Olivia Barber, Violet Burek, James Clay, Madeleine Cleal, Peter Clark, Fabio Crepaldi, Melody Darblade, Barbara Fontana, Alexander Freemantle, Emily Haddy, Jennifer Leighton, Kate Lewis, Louise Loyant, Claire Perez, Florence Rocque, Jasmine Rollings, Laura Saunders, Derry Taylor
Browse our postgraduate research projects at our Psychology research degrees page, visit the MRes Science and Health page, or search our Master's degrees in Psychology.
We also offer internships and volunteering opportunities, please contact one of our member directly or the CCEP director, Juliane Kaminski .
Our partnerships include:
Our recent funders include the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Leverhulme Trust, Marie Curie, the British Academy , The Leakey Foundation, The Waltham Foundation and the Royal Society.
You can also see a full list of our recent funding awards at our research portal.
We're always looking for volunteers to join our research study programmes.
If you're an adult interested in registering for a research study, please fill in the following form.
Register now
If you're interested in registering a child for a research study, please fill in the following form.
Discover the School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences, where we're exploring health and exercise science, sport science, and the impact of psychology.
Researchers in the Department of Psychology are studying macaque cognition and behaviour.
Find out more about this research project.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/ccixr:
bringing together a full suite of the latest XR technologies under one roof
Building on our long-standing expertise in creative research and innovation, our world-leading facility places us at the forefront of innovations in the next generation of digital technologies of virtual, augmented and extended realities.
We’re making Extended Reality (XR) more accessible to all.
From training solutions to immersive art, we’re supporting others to innovate with XR.
As well as equipping our graduates with highly sought-after skills in a rapidly evolving field, CCIXR provides support for organisations to explore how XR can work for them.
Use the links below to jump to different sections of the page.
CCIXR lowers the barrier to entry for businesses who are looking to understand what immersive XR is.
It exists to better show what XR can do for a business – and give organisations access to world-leading facilities that would other be out of their reach, or require significant budgets.
There is a critical shortage of digital skills – which CCIXR addresses from a student and industrial perspective – providing access to facilities and technologies, and allowing students to enter the workplace with the skills industry needs in these cutting edge technologies.
Early adoption of nascent XR is already transforming priority sectors, and market analysis demonstrates significant and sustained economic opportunity for its application.
CCIXR supports the development and adoption of digital and creative technologies into other priority sectors, expanding and developing the creative/digital sector of the region.
By building on our excellent reputation and record for graduate employability and employment, CCIXR aims to create a step-change in skills training and development, which will in turn support the creation of high-value jobs within the region, and beyond.
If you’ve ever seen a behind-the-scenes programme about a film with lots of special effects, you may be familiar with Mo-Cap.
Performers wear special suits and their movement is ‘captured’ to then be used in a virtual environment, for example, to bring a computer game character to life.
Our new studio features facilities for full-body, facial and hand capture.
We have three new, purpose-built studios featuring a Neve Genesys Black G96, a Dolby Atmos Surround Sound Studio, five SSL editing pods and high-end outboard gear including a Manley Massive Passive EQ and a Maselec Multi-Band Compressor.
Photogrammetry is the process of scanning people, objects or locations using specialist software and multiple cameras to create accurate 3D imagery of the subject.
Here, the person being scanned is a student modelling an outfit by one of our BA Fashion and Textiles undergraduates.
Our Photogrammetry & Scanning Studio includes a custom-designed full-body scanning rig with 144 Canon EOS RP Cameras.
Volumetric video uses lots of cameras and specialist software to capture 3D footage of moving people or objects, which can then be added to virtual locations.
Our Volumetric Video Studio features a 4DViews Holosys system with 32 4K resolution cameras that can capture high-detail Volumetric Video at up to 60 frames per second.
CCIXR has a full Virtual Production and Mixed Reality Studio powered by White Light SmartStage®  technology, enabling the development of the latest techniques for in-camera visual effects (ICVFX), XR television broadcasts and next-generation conference presentations.
Our XR Studio features a range of systems and equipment including haptic gloves, VR headsets and a 360-degree treadmill to create fully-immersive experiences, for example, the thrill of a rollercoaster ride seen here.
Motion Capture is at the core of a large proportion of the CCIXR’s activities, allowing and enabling innovative developments across the Creative Industries and beyond.
In addition to Full Body motion capture, the CCIXR Motion Capture Studio features facilities for Facial and Hand capture (full performance capture), in real-time using multiple tracking solutions (optical and inertial) to cater for a wide range of performance capture.
The large-scale studio also has a viewing gallery to allow easier communication and collaboration, and features optical and inertia based motion capture systems.
A variety of tracking solutions are needed for different locations/tasks - and so a balance of passive and active systems are utilised to ensure maximum flexibility for companies and skills acquisition for our students.
The new studio also explores innovative alternative motion capture solutions, which are only currently available in the USA - including electromagnetic motion capture (Sixense).
Exploring these options adds further options to the toolkit of resources which we can make available through CCIXR.
Bringing LBE facilities to the Solent region increases the ability for UK based companies to develop for this medium, and enable us to develop the talent pipeline within this area.
Location Based experiences are key to the growth of the XR market, as they enable consumers to experience the content, without the need to invest in expensive headsets - due to their multiplayer style, they also offer a way to share the experience.
Our current innovation research in partnership with the RSC is another form of Location Based experience, and this facility enables us to develop and innovate for the entire experience.
This technology incorporates motion capture (Vicon Origin system or similar), backpack PCs, VR headsets, haptic peripherals, face and hand tracking solutions and development computing.
Green screen space has also be incorporated for full mixed-reality tracking.
These facilities will be key to leveraging future funding for research and innovation, enabling the CCIXR to be at the forefront of innovation in this sector.
Combining Volumetrics with CCIXR’s photogrammetry and motion capture expertise and facilities means that for the first time all of these options can be used together to achieve ground-breaking results.
Establishing volumetric capture facilities in the Solent region creates the UK's first facility outside London.
The photogrammetry system is a metal rig, with a large number of cameras fixed at certain points.
All of these cameras are synchronised, so that at the push of one button all the cameras take a photo simultaneously.
The rig is calibrated and positioned for detailed facial capture, in addition to an upright person.
This enables full body and facial capture, the resulting digital data can then be utilised across the different disciplines and digital applications.
Photogrammetry is now widely used by global industry and, this facility will enable us to train a workforce who have the specialist skills that are needed to develop this in the UK.
Photogrammetry is a key central resource that will greatly enhance the graphical capabilities of the CCIXR, and will be a very valuable service to industry particularly for games, film, animation, graphics, architecture and marketing.
This specialist service is not currently easily available outside of London.
Due to our partnership with Magic Leap, we have the expertise and skills to have developed the first Spatial Computing Lab in the UK.
This unique facility is key in enabling creation of spatial computing/mixed reality content and research and innovation in this field.
LEP involvement enables the skills development, talent pipeline and further secures this region as a centre of expertise for this emerging technology.
UoP has been given early-access developer status by Magic Leap, and as part of that agreement, sustainability of the equipment within this Lab will be ensured, as Magic Leap ensures that headsets are updated with the latest models.
Development bays have been created in order to enable XR technology development and production.
LEP support enables CCIXR to have commercial licenses for a proportion of these bays, so that industry collaborators and partners can use these facilities on a short-term project basis.
These development bays are equipped with console development kits, VR headsets and other technologies in order to ensure developments can be fully tested on site.
These state-of-the-art facilities include multiple spaces incorporating mixing desks, spatial audio and binaural sound areas, recording studios, musical computing and synthesis.
This enables sound and vision to be understood within a context of human interaction and creative coding – ensuring that sound remains central within immersive XR.
These facilities support and enable the core strengths within the team in relation to music computing and coding, production and engineering, and composition and performance of sound, and are essential in order to enable skills acquisition and development for sounds XR.
The VR Lab is designed for multiple applications including simulation and training, healthcare and medical, entertainment and media outputs.
It incorporates between 4 and 6 degrees of freedom platforms and chairs, haptic devices, mobile development spaces and a virtual production projection mapping system.
This also includes VR chairs, allowing new areas of innovation to be supported.
Simulation facilities enable a wide range of industry project applications, in purpose built development facilities, which includes state of the art biometric feedback devices, virtual production facilities, healthcare simulation technologies and cutting-edge XR technologies.
The Mixed Reality Tech Lab provides next generation light projection and mixed reality projection technology to enable interaction with content in real-time.
This operates as a smart stage cube system, and will be an invaluable resource to organisations wishing to generate interactive content.
This technology is essential to the skills and talent pipeline, as our Industry advice highlights the fact that real-time production skills are in great demand.
This technology directly addresses this need.
Working in partnership with the University's innovation spaces, these dedicated CCIXR digital communication facilities, with full Immersive presentation facilities, are bookable by our partners and collaborators.
LEP support enables CCIXR to deepen its business support and development offer.
CCIXR also explores immersion of all types, including 360 degree projection and projection mapping.
Collaboration has been a cornerstone of CCIXR from the very beginning.
A project of this scale and ambition was only ever going to be possible with teamwork, both from within the university and beyond.
If you're interested in working with CCIXR, please send us an email to ccixr@port.ac.uk .
The Enabling XR Enterprise (eXRe) Project helped more than 100 organisations to find out about XR and experience the technology first-hand through networking events and free workshops.
Expert one-to-one support was available for companies to create an XR innovation plan for their business.
Utilising CCIXR motion capture technology, computing power and expertise, the future of live technology was explored in Dream, a reimagining of Shakespeare's play A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Experienced live for 70,000 people, over 10 performances in 151 countries, Dream changed how live performance can be experienced when it is no longer being bound by physical location.
Users entered the unreal world of the forest, and met the avatars of Puck, Moth, Mustardseed, Peaseblossom and Cobweb, performed by actors whose movements and facial expressions are rendered onto the characters in real time through motion capture and facial rigging technology.
CCIXR collaborated with the international street artist My Dog Sighs to create an immersive soundscape for his first immersive exhibition inside a deserted casino.
The project utilised photogrammetry, lidar scanning and Creaform scanners in order to create a 360 degree VR visualisation of the space to preserve it for future outreach and dissemination.
Featuring projections on buildings, huge painted murals, large-scale light installations, dance performances, a light parade, and more, CCIXR was a partner and collaborator for the first-ever immersive light Festival in Portsmouth, bringing together a wide range of artist’s work.
CCIXR provided workshops for local artists to learn how to create digital projections, as well as creating apps, audio trails, and facilitating Thomas Buckley’s light installation of butterflies, which was co-created with the young people of Portsmouth.
Children drew their hopes and dreams in the wings of butterflies, which were then animated and brought to life on the side of a building in central Portsmouth.
CCIXR also enabled visually-impaired artist Clarke Reynolds to bring his immersive installation “Too See Stars” to life, and hosted this exhibit within the Eldon Building - welcoming thousands of members of the public into the space to experience the technology and art for themselves.
CCIXR technologies have been fully utilised in order to engage young people, and the local community with the possibilities that are offered by the technologies.
The team have developed and built user-friendly demonstrations that are designed for outreach with accessibility in mind.
These have already been showcased at EGX in London (2021) and GamesFest in Portsmouth (2022), engaging with thousands of members of the public.
Further outreach, in collaboration with our industry partners is planned for the coming months including Comic Con in May 2022.
This third-year undergraduate student project was commissioned by the Royal Navy and Novatech.
Its aim was to create a VR simulation tool to support the training for RHIB piloting and navigation.
Using a three degrees of freedom (DoF) platform and/or chair the original aim of the project was simply to create a proof of concept.
However, these ambitions were significantly surpassed and the project was eventually realised as a full training simulation.
To date, RNR (Royal Navy Reserves) have relied on the right weather and available resources to train their part-time members.
These external variables have frustrated training by limiting crucial training required to prepare RNR members for the unpredictable ocean conditions that RHIB coxswains constantly face.
This project was able to address this challenge by using a combination of commercially available gaming hardware within training, and has developed into a first-of-its-kind affordable and portable motion simulator.
This was developed on a two DoF simulator chair, with a gaming style steering wheel, thruster and Oculus Rift headset.
Following a trial conducted by a Royal Navy coxswain, the motion simulator was deemed a realistic and efficient training sim alternative.
However, participant feedback and review led to the development of the simulator from using just a pitch + roll facility, to incorporating heave so as to enhance the reality of the simulated experience.
With this addition, the team were able to correctly mimic the ocean’s waves that affect a RHIB in deployment.
This VR training tool has been presented at VentureFest South,DSET (Bristol) and in ITECH (Sweden), demonstrating the power of Creative and Immersive technologies within the marine and maritime, and defence sectors.
Funded by Innovate UK as part of the Audiences of the Future: Design Foundations programme, part of the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF).
This project sought to discover how Creative and Immersive XR could be used within a heritage context to design an exhibition which used digital technologies to augment real objects.
Faced with the challenge of caretaking often fragile and precious exhibits, museums, galleries and heritage environments are well versed in the need for careful presentation and interpretation of their collections.
Designing Disgust was a proof of concept project that sought to use creative XR technologies to support and enable the story-telling of historical objects which in a contemporary environment and for political or moral reasons, are now viewed as problematic, inappropriate or just plain disgusting.
An example of this is a high-style Victorian silk dress which would have entailed the death of over 1300 silkworms in its creation.
Using a selection of different Creative and Immersive XR technologies the team created a number of successful proof of concept artefacts, overcoming the perceived challenges associated with exhibition and presentation of these objects.
For this dress, the team created an animated light projection of silkworms cascading down and slowly filling up the dress in order to illustrate and reveal the challenging history that lay behind such an apparently beautiful object and its creation.
Audience research shows that the ‘animated’ yet non-invasive augmentation of this object attracted visitor interest and deepened their engagement and understanding of the collection.
11 September 2023
3 April 2023
4 May 2022
13 April 2023
Peter Howell
27 January 2023
The UK has a world leading digital economy, is 5th in the global innovation index and currently exports £18 billion in cultural exports.
Most recent DCMS data shows the increasing strength of the UK Creative Industries, Digital and Cultural Sectors.
Since 2010, Creative Industries in the UK has expanded by over 53%, the Digital Sector by 33% and the Cultural Sector by 38.5%.
The digital technologies of visual and spatial computing develop at considerable pace – and the rapidly emergent and integrated fields of ‘eXtended Reality’ (XR) have yet to fully consolidate in institutional, sector and regional terms.
CCIXR aims to capitalise on our longstanding and pioneering research and innovation within these fields, to make Portsmouth and the Solent region a centre of excellence for R&D, innovation and business development for eXtended Reality through visual and spatial computing in the UK.
Through CCIXR, our students will have the opportunity to work alongside cross-sectoral industry partners using XR technologies to address real world industry problems.
CCIXR aims to have a significant impact on the productivity of the existing industrial base and other industry sectors such as marine, defence, medical and aerospace that employ creative digital disciplines in their own research and development – and CCIXR will have significant potential to help increase the region’s economy to £50 billion by 2050.
CCIXR brought the University together with partners that share a passion to champion technological innovation, help people develop sought-after new skills, create jobs and put Portsmouth and the region on the world map as a leader in the evolution of XR capabilities.
Working with a team of industry-leading technology partners that share our passion for innovation ensures that CCIXR is kitted out with the very latest XR equipment and software, both now and in the future.
At the forefront of their respective fields, each one played a key role in bringing the CCIXR team’s ideas to life.
CCIXR was funded by investment from the University and £3.6 million from Solent Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP).
Anne-Marie Mountifield, Chief Executive the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP), said: “The creative sector is a significant contributor to both the national and local economy, and, in support of this, the Solent LEP has invested £3.6 million through the Local Growth Deal in this new state-of-the-art centre which will support businesses, create jobs and provide facilities for new learners.
“With its focus on digital skills and technology, CCIXR will ensure our region is at the centre of this exciting and emerging immersive industry – a clear signal that the Solent is home to a world-class talent base and one where the creative industries can grow and thrive.”
Funding from the Government’s £220m UK Community Renewal Fund led to the Enabling XR Enterprise (eXRe) Project.
Offering organisations across the region access to free networking events and workshops to explore XR technology, there’s also the opportunity for some to work with CCIXR experts to devise an innovation plan for their new ideas.
Explore the Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries at the University of Portsmouth – and find out more about the teaching and research activities taking place within our four Schools.
Use your creativity and the latest technology to build up your portfolio on this MSc in Creative Technologies.
Open the door to a career in media and entertainment industries.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-cybercrime-and-economic-crime:
Bringing together expertise in cybercrime and economic crime
Our aim is to harness, coordinate and develop the cybercrime and economic crime expertise across the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice , the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences , and the wider University, including the School of Computing , the Department of Psychology , and the Faculty of Business and Law .
CCEC also enables greater multidisciplinary working and cooperation between the many other pockets of interest related to cybercrime and economic crime across the University and beyond.
CCEC incorporates and builds upon the work of the Centre for Counter Fraud Studies, and includes our Cybercrime Awareness Clinic .
Our members have also developed links with Korean academics to jointly study issues in cybercrime and economic crime.
See upcoming events
View all our research outputs on PURE
Subscribe to the CCEC mailing list
Email us at CCEC@port.ac.uk
CCEC is built upon four smaller research groups focusing on specific areas of cybercrime and economic crime.
We're researching how crime takes place using technology, such as cyber fraud, hacking, online abuse, and its impact on individuals and society.
We're researching the scale, impact and cost of economic crimes — such as fraud, corruption and money laundering.
We're researching victims and victimisation, inequality, domestic and online abuse, ecological justice, wildlife crime and climate change.
We're working to improve the security of the systems used to access assets, and to make the way people access them more secure.
Part of CCEC, the clinic provides cybercrime awareness advice to individuals, community groups, schools, colleges and small and medium organisations, and conducts research into cybercrime awareness and prevention.
Members of CECC have strong links with researchers in South Korea.
As part of an ESRC funded research project into fraud, cybercrime and ageing in the UK and South Korea, they have established an academic network.
Co-Directors
Professor of Criminology
Mark.Button@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Cybercrime and Cybersecurity
Vasileios.Karagiannopoulos@port.ac.uk
View all members
CCEC organises a range of events relating to various aspects of cybercrime and economic crime.
Every June, the Centre hosts a two-day international conference, in person and online, featuring dozens of presentations on a wide range of subjects.
In January, we host an online Winter Symposium focusing on specific issues of economic crime.
The Centre also hosts a series of seminars on relevant topics throughout the academic year, both online and in person.
The 15th Counter Fraud, Cybercrime and Forensic Accounting Conference will take place on Wednesday 17th and Thursday 18th June 2026 in Portsmouth, UK.
Please sign up to our mailing list to receive notifications about our conference and other upcoming events and calls for papers.
The 14th Counter Fraud, Cybercrime and Forensic Accounting conference took place on Wednesday 18th and Thursday 19th June 2025.
The aim of the conference was to network, share our research and insights into techniques, ideas, or approaches that help to inform fellow scholars and professionals on important debates in the field of cybercrime, economic crime and forensic accounting.
This year's conference welcomed over 70 speakers from across the globe sharing their research and expertise on a range of themes including: fraud prevention and victimisation; diversity of online harms; banking, fraud and economic crime; cryptocurrency risks and responses; business and fraud; misinformation and social media; romance fraud and scammers; cyber-enabled terrorism and counter-terrorism; fraudsters and enablers; victims, cybercrime and fraud; building resilience to cybercrime and fraud; challenges in cybersecurity; cybersecurity education; and virtual assets.
You can read a full report about the conference here .
The 6th Winter Economic Crime Symposium, held on 16th January 2025, brought together experts, researchers and practitioners from across the globe to address the growing threat of fraud.
Eight speakers from seven countries discussed a variety of topics linked to organised and cross-border fraud.
These speakers, along with hundreds of registered delegates, explored key methods of these crimes and underlying policing landscape.
READ MORE...
The Symposium was supported by the Journal of Economic Criminology and the International Society of Economic Criminology .
To be informed about future public lectures and other events, please subscribe to our mailing list .
Centre co-director Professor Mark Button delivered a public lecture at the University of Portsmouth on 16 October 2024, discussing the fraud epidemic, who is responsible and what can be done about it.
The 13th Counter Fraud, Cybercrime and Forensic Accounting Conference was held in-person at the University of Portsmouth over two days on Wednesday 12th and Thursday 13th June 2024.
This year’s conference featured keynote and plenary speakers including:
In addition to the above, over 30 speakers from across the globe shared their research and expertise on a range of topics including Online Harms, Victims of Fraud, Anti-Fraud Technology, Cybersecurity and Hacking, Digital Threats, Telecommunication Frauds, Beneficial Ownership, Fraud Investigation, Government Responses to Fraud, Fraud Detection, Organised and Environmental Crime, and Auditing.
In February 2024 CCEC co-hosted the 2024 Annual Terrorism and Extremism Colloquium with the European Society of Criminology Working Group on Radicalization, Extremism, and Terrorism (WG-Extreme).
The colloquium included panels on ideologies in online extremist dynamics, extreme misogyny, the methodological challenges of researching online extremism, pathways and recruitment into extremism, incels, conspiracy theories and emerging technologies, ethics and reflexivity and an early career researcher symposium.
The keynote speech, on Navigating the Challenges of Researching Online Extremism, was delivered by Jakob Guhl, from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue.
In February 2024 the Centre for Cybercrime and Economic Crime launched a series of online “fireside chats” – discussions between Centre co-directed Dr Vasileios Karagiannopoulos and industry leaders from the fields of cybersecurity, risk management and governance/compliance, sharing their insights regarding topical issues and associated challenges they are facing and that have a wider impact for the UK, its businesses and citizens.
For our first session we welcomed Onur Korucu (Managing Partner and Advisory Board Member of Govern ID, a WomenTech Global Ambassador and Council Member and International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) Ireland Chapter Chair) for a fascinating discussion about  digital transformation of the EU and its impact on the UK.
The event was recorded and you can watch the video here.
If you would like to be kept informed of the date and time of our next fireside chat, please subscribe to our mailing list .
The 5th Winter Economic Crime Symposium was held online on 18th January 2024, organised by Dr Branislav Hock , of the Economic Crime Research Group .
The event featured sessions on Economic Crime in War and Exploring UK government initiatives to tackle economic crime, bringing together a diverse body of researchers, practitioners, students and other community members.
The keynote speech, on Economic Crime and War Crimes, was delivered by Professor Noelle Quenivet, from the University of the West of England.
The Symposium was supported by the Journal of Economic Criminology .
The 12th Counter Fraud, Cybercrime and Forensic Accounting Conference, which took place on 14th and 15th June 2023, was hosted for the first time by the Centre for Cybercrime and Economic Crime and was a huge success, welcoming over 300 in-person and online delegates from across the globe, with over 50 speakers sharing their research and expertise.
Over 60 organisations were represented, including higher education, banking and financial services, government agencies, law enforcement, crime prevention, technology, research, insurance and loss adjusting, accounting, law and auditing.
Read more…
See all CCEC research outputs on PURE
You can also view a list of books, articles and reports by CCEC members on their staff profiles .
Our members' most recent work related to cybercrime and economic crime is below.
Philippou, C.
30 Jun 2025,
Research output: Chapter (peer-reviewed)
Ordway, C., Philippou, C.
1 May 2025,
Tiwari, M., Zhou, Y., Gilmour, P., Bernot, A.
4 Mar 2025, In: Law, Innovation and Technology, 18p.
Adda, M., Scheidt, N.
17 Feb 2025, In: Future Internet.
17, 2, 24p., 92
Button, M., Hock, B., Shepherd, D., & Gilmour, P.
(2023).
Journal of Economic Criminology, 1, 100012.
Sugiura, L., Button, M., Nurse, J.
R., Tapley, J., Saglam, R.
B., Hawkins, C., ...
& Blackbourn, D.
(2024).
The technification of domestic abuse: Methods, tools and criminal justice responses.
Criminology & Criminal Justice, 17488958241266760.
Adda, M., Kanta, K., Khusainov, R., Shiaeles, S.
01/01/2025 → 31/12/2027
Our members are at the forefront of developing the sub-discipline of ‘economic criminology’, and have been involved in setting up the Journal of Economic Criminology.
Visit the journal website
The University of Portsmouth offers a wide range of courses related to cybercrime and economic crime, from undergraduate to Doctorate level.
We also offer campus based and distance learning options for some courses.
Many of our general criminology degrees also offer cybercrime and economic crime modules.
We can also provide bespoke courses and accreditation, please contact us for further information.
The Professional Doctorate in Security Risk Management (D.SyRM) is a structured, part-time programme targeted towards security professionals in the UK and overseas, delivered through a small number of workshops in Portsmouth for the first two years and then two years of supervised research leading to a thesis.
Start date: October 2025
Discover why you should do your PhD at the University of Portsmouth – and explore the subject areas you can study in, how to fund your PhD, and how to apply.
Email: CCEC@port.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)23 9284 8484
#UOP_CCEC

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-european-and-international-studies-research:
Ranked 2nd nationally for research power and 1st among modern universities for research quality by REF2021
The Centre for European and International Studies Research (CEISR) offers global perspectives on the major social transformations of the past and present, specialising in research into cross-border transnational and supranational dimensions of Europe, Africa, the Americas and Asia.
With strong roots in Area Studies, CEISR provides a unique interdisciplinary space for scholars in the humanities and social sciences to identify thematic synergies that break free from disciplinary silos.
In doing so, the Centre focuses on three core thematic research areas: marginality, inequality and security.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021 , our entry in Area Studies was ranked as the top modern UK university for overall quality by Grade Point Average (GPA) and research power, and 2nd across all UK universities for research power, according to Times Higher Education .
100% of our impact was rated as having outstanding or very considerable reach and significance.
CEISR’s annual calendar has as its key focus two high profile events: the CEISR Annual Lecture and the CEISR Public Lecture.
These high profile events underscore CEISR’s research focus on marginality, inequality and security and its contribution to the building of civic engagement with the humanities and social sciences at the University of Portsmouth.
CEISR works with a number of external stakeholders including Chatham House , The European Parliament , The West Africa Peace and Security Network , and Friends Without Borders .
CEISR hosts a number of Area Studies PhD students each year through the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (with the Universities of Southampton and Brighton).
Our activities have been funded by major UK and European research councils, including:
The latest publications from CEISR members are below:
Barrios Aquino, M.
9 Jul 2025, In: Journal of Contemporary European Studies
Williams, K.
A., Grinsted, L., Lowe, T., Brindley, J.
16 Jun 2025, In: Journal of Learning Development in Higher Education.
36, 20p.
Smith, T.
13 Mar 2025, In: Justice Info
11 Mar 2025, In: The Conversation
Powell, M.
L.
27 Jan 2025, In: The Conversation
Townley, D.
20 Jan 2025, In: The Conversation
13 Jan 2025, In: The Conversation
Round, M.
R.
9 Dec 2024, In: Sex Education: Sexuality, Society and Learning, 14p.
2 Dec 2024, In: The Conversation
Morris, C.
A., Rowell, C.
1 Dec 2024, In: Learning and Teaching.
17, 3, p.
112–133
View all CEISR's research publications on the University of Portsmouth's Research Portal.
We're researching the history, societies, cultures, politics and languages of different regions of the world, with a particular emphasis on decolonial perspectives.
We're researching aspects of social and cultural history in European societies, and further afield.
We're researching the complex reality of the struggles over the meaning of security, citizenship and rights.
Our research is located in the disciplinary field of sociology and the interdisciplinary domain of social theory.
Our research focuses on the cross-border dimensions of Europe and the wider world, including transnational politics, civil society and migration.
We're researching violence against women and girls, access to justice, peace-building and conflict resolution.
This group seeks to open up opportunities to share and explore critical, radical, alternative and liberatory approaches to the research and practice of education across multiple global contexts.
We're exploring international relations, history, politics, economies, cultures, languages and geography across specific regions.
We're researching what education looks like for different groups of people around the globe, while pushing for social justice and the human rights agenda worldwide.
We're understanding our society through the study of experiences, culture, values and activities of people throughout history.
We're looking beyond words to explore how they're used in certain contexts, and the relationship words can have with social constructs such as class or power.
Explore our languages and applied linguistics research.
We're exploring pressing issues in politics and international relations and working with organisations, governments and individuals to find solutions.
We're studying the patterns of relationships, social interaction, cultures and communities, and how people live their lives.
Explore our sociology research.
We're exploring women’s issues and gender issues in social and cultural contexts through time, and how gender is represented in the media.
Explore our women's and gender studies research.
View CEISR Executive
kris.nolan@port.ac.uk
charlotte.steffen@port.ac.uk
mark.kaye@port.ac.uk
Search all our members
Find our more about our latest research successes, read blogs by our academics and listen to the latest ideas and discoveries that look set to change our lives in our Life Solved podcast.
Read the latest insights into security and risk in relation to our modern world, with a focus on government regulations, online safety, cyber wars and travel security.
Portsmouth researchers discuss the issues that have arisen as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic.
28 July 2020
48 min listen
Dr James Dennis explores how political behaviour is changing in the digital age.
4 August 2020
29 min listen
Professor Peter Lee spoke to drone operators about how their job does not detach them from the act of killing.
25 August 2020

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-enzyme-innovation:
Explore how our pioneering research is helping us to tackle plastic pollution
Learning from the natural world, we are delivering transformative enzyme-enabled solutions for the circular recycling of plastics.
Following a £5.8 million award from the Research England Expanding Excellence Fund in 2019, and a £1m award from the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership in 2020 through the HM Government Getting Building Fund, we have created state-of-the-art facilities and built a team of specialist multidiscipline researchers to deliver world-class research and innovation.
University of Portsmouth scientists are part of an international study which suggests enzyme-based plastics recycling at an industrial scale could be cost-effective.
8
9 February 2024
4 minutes
30 August 2023
6 February 2023
Scientists who helped to pioneer the use of enzymes to eat plastic have taken an important next step in developing nature-based solutions to the global plastics crisis.
21 March 2022
4 min read
22 July 2021
We currently have 30 scientists covering a wide range of disciplines including microbiology, molecular biophysics, biochemistry, enzyme engineering and synthetic biology, biotechnology, and more recently, polymer chemistry.
Hosted in our new custom laboratories, we have the expertise and facilities required to help tackle the challenge of plastic pollution and develop enzyme-based low energy, low carbon, biorecycling solutions.
Our research sits at the interface between enzymes and polymers with a focus on both pure and applied research in biocatalysis.
We are expanding our research and innovation activities to address the diverse range of plastics, including mixed waste streams and composites, materials that are often incinerated or end up in landfill and leak to the environment.
Professor Andy Pickford
View all staff at the CEI
The pipeline allows for the streamlined development of enzymes from discovery through to recycling applications.
Enzymes break down waste plastic polymers into building blocks that are purified and re-polymerised, allowing infinite recycling of the materials as part of a circular plastics economy.
Oliveira Pessoa, L., Cahill, A., Wuscher, L., Green, K.R., Bemmer, V.L., Lichtenstein, B.R., 2024, Faraday Discussions, early-online d4fd00067f
Plastics pose significant environmental challenges due to their durability.
Engineered enzymes like PETases offer a sustainable recycling solution but struggle with plastic's hydrophobic surface, product inhibition, and absence of processivity.
Fusion partners have been used to address these obstacles, however there is ambiguity in whether fusion proteins provide a tangible benefit.
This study uses SpyCatcher003, a thermodynamically switchable fusion partner, to investigate its effect on PETase activity and stability.
Our results indicate that for small, reversibly folding fusion partners, enzyme stability and tolerance to fusions is more important than fusion partner properties.
This approach should prove generalisable in isolating and clarifying the thermodynamic benefits of fusion partners on enzymes for biotechnological applications.
Avilan, L., Lichtenstein, B., Koenig, G., Zahn, M., Allen, M.D., Oliveira Pessoa, L., Clark, M.A., Bemmer, V.L., Graham, R., Austin, H.P., Dominick G., Johnson, C.W., Beckham, G.T., McGeehan, J., and Pickford, A., 2023 (Early online) ChemSusChem.
Enzyme-based depolymerization, particularly PETase from Ideonella sakaiensis, offers a promising method for poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) recycling, despite its concentration-dependent inhibition which varies depending on factors like incubation time, solution conditions, and PET surface area.
This inhibitory trait is also observable in other mesophilic PET-degrading enzymes, regardless of their PET depolymerization activity level, and is not tied to any obvious structural basis.
Significantly, thermostable PETase variants, including the engineered HotPETase, show less or no inhibition, pointing to the benefit of enhanced thermostability in these enzymes for PET hydrolysis.
McNaught, K., Kuatsjah, E., Zahn, M., Prates, E., Shao, H., Bentley, G., Pickford, A., Gruber, J., Hestmark, K., Jacobson, D., Poirier, B., Ling, C., San Marchi, M., Michener, W.E., Nicora, C., Sanders, J., Szostkiewicz, C.J., Veličković, D., Zhou, M., Monoz, N., and 7 others, 2023, Metabolic Engineering 76, p.
193-203.
Understanding bacterial fatty acid biosynthesis is vital for producing fatty acid-derived molecules and developing antibiotics, but knowledge gaps persist regarding its initiation.
Our study shows that the microbe Pseudomonas putida KT2440 initiates fatty acid biosynthesis through three distinct pathways involving enzymes FabH1, FabH2, and MadB.
Through comprehensive in vivo and in vitro testing, along with X-ray crystallography and computational modelling, we have identified the possible mechanism of malonyl-ACP decarboxylation via MadB, a pathway common in bacteria that offers potential for biotechnological and medical applications.
Kuatsjah, E., Zahn, M., Chen, X., Kato, R., Hinchen, D.J., Konev, M., Katahira, R., Orr, C., Wagner, A., Zou, Y., Haugen, S.J., Ramirez, K., Michener, J.K., Pickford, A., Kamimura, N., Masai, E., Houk, K.N., McGeehan, J.
and Beckham, G.T., 2023, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 120, 4, 9 p., e2212246120.
Efforts to valorize lignin through catalytic depolymerization and biological funneling require the development of enzymes that can break down aromatic dimers and oligomers to monomers.
Our study examines LdpA, an enzyme found in Novosphingobium aromaticivorans and Sphingobium sp.
SYK-6, that transforms a lignin-derived dimer, erythro-1,2-diguaiacylpropane-1,3-diol (erythro-DGPD), into lignostilbene, demonstrating this transformation lacks enantioselectivity and is impeded by product inhibition.
Using X-ray crystallography, we identified key catalytic residues and extended the scope of the NTF-2-like protein family's chemistry to include lignin dimer deformylation, a reaction not requiring a cofactor.
Lamb, C.E.
and Watts, J.E.M.
2023, Environmental Microbiome 18, 1, 11 p., 52.
Marine sponges possess diverse microbiomes that have shown changes in response to environmental factors such as nutrient availability, temperature, and light.
This study investigates the impact of temperature shifts on the composition and function of the microbiome in two UK-native marine sponge species, using next-generation sequencing.
The research identifies a stable, species-specific core microbiome unaffected by seasonal temperature variations, potentially enabling the discovery of new functional activities in the marine ecosystem.
da Silva, G.C., Rossi, C.C., Rosa, J.N., Sanches, N.M., Cardosa, D.L., Li, Y., Witney, A.A., Gould, K.A., Fontes, P.P., Callaghan, A.J., Bossé, J.T., Langford, P.R., and Bazzolli, D.M.S., 2022, Frontiers in Microbilogy 13, 20 p., 1017278
The RNA chaperone Hfq and its associated small RNAs (sRNAs) are known to influence the virulence and stress response of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae.
This study identified 14 sRNAs linked with Hfq in A.
pleuropneumoniae strain MIDG2331, focusing on Rna01, an sRNA with potential stress regulon recognition, which affects biofilm formation, virulence, stress susceptibility, and outer membrane protein composition.
This research advances our understanding of Hfq-dependent sRNAs in bacterial physiology and pathogenicity.
Menon, N., Richmond, D., Rahman, M.R.
and Menon, B.R.K., 2022, ACS Catalysis 12, 4, p.2309-2319
Creating biocatalytic methods for incorporating amide or carboxylic acid functional groups into bioactive scaffolds in aqueous conditions poses a significant challenge due to the dearth of suitable enzymes.
This study presents a monooxygenase-hydrolase based biosynthetic method, leveraging pathways from plant microbiomes involved in auxin production, a plant hormone used for infecting and colonizing plant cells.
Demonstrating the versatility of this method, we designed one-pot multienzyme biosynthetic cascades for large-scale production of indole acetic acid and its derivatives.
Herbert, J., Beckett, A.H., and Robson, S.C., 2022, Sustainability 4, 23, 25p., 15898.
This review explores interdisciplinary methods for identifying environmental enzymes that can break down plastic polymers into monomeric building blocks, offering a solution to mounting plastic waste through circular recycling.
Techniques such as DNA and RNA sequencing of plastic-degrading microbes, alongside machine learning, aid in pinpointing industrially viable enzymes, which can be optimized via protein engineering.
These combined approaches offer promise for identifying additional enzyme candidates to tackle the global plastic issue at an industrial scale.
Graham, R., Erickson, E., Brizendine, R.K., Salvachúa, D., Michener, W.E., Li, Y., Tan, Z., Beckham, G.T., McGeehan.J., Pickford, A.R., 2022, Chem Catalysis 2, 10, p.
2644-2657.
Enzymes deconstructing biological polymers often possess multi-domain structures, including a catalytic domain and a non-catalytic binding module, which enhances enzyme concentration on the substrate surface and boosts the hydrolysis of poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) in engineered cutinase enzymes.
In this study, we created fusion constructs of leaf compost cutinase (LCC) with carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs), which improved aromatic monomer yield from PET at solids loadings under 10 wt%, but didn't provide additional benefits at higher loadings.
This indicates that fusion constructs with these non-catalytic binding modules aren't required for industrial enzymatic PET recycling.
Erickson, E., Gado, J.E., Avilan, L., Bratti, F., Brizendine, R.K., Cox, P., Gill, R., Graham, R., Kim, D-J., Koenig, G., Michener, W.E., Poudel, S., Ramirez, K.J., Shakespeare, T.J., Zahn, M., Boyd, E.S., Payne, C., DuBois, J.L., Pickford, A.R., Beckham, G.T., and 1 others, 2022, Nature Communications 13, 1, 15 p., 7850.
The study uses bioinformatics and machine learning to identify 74 potential thermotolerant PET hydrolases from natural diversity, aimed at augmenting the enzymatic deconstruction of poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET).
Of these, 51 enzymes from seven phylogenetic groups were successfully produced, purified, and assayed, revealing PET hydrolysis activity across a range of pH values and temperatures, with different substrate selectivities based on PET morphology.
Using X-ray crystallography and AlphaFold, the study also uncovers novel protein folds and accessory domains linked with PET deconstruction, expanding the range of thermotolerant scaffolds for this purpose.
Erickson, E., Shakespeare, T.
J., Bratti, F., Buss, B., Graham, R., Hawkins, M., Koenig, G., Michener, W.
E., Miscall, J., Ramirez, K., Rorrer, N.
A., Zahn, M., Pickford, A., McGeehan, J.
E.
and Beckham, G.
T.
2022, ChemSusChem 15, 1, 11 p., e202101932.
This study contrasts the Ideonella sakaiensis PETase wild-type enzyme with an improved variant for PET recycling, revealing that reaction temperature, substrate morphology, and reaction mixture composition significantly impact performance.
It shows higher PET conversion for substrates with moderate crystallinity and distinct inhibition profiles for each enzyme, dependent on the accumulation of certain products.
The findings underscore the critical role of reaction conditions, substrate selection, and product accumulation in the performance of PET-hydrolyzing enzymes, vital for enzyme screening in developing enzyme-based polyester recycling.
Researchers from the Centre for Enzyme Innovation receive funding from a wide range of external sources, including the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), the National Environment Research Council (NERC), the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the European Commission, Innovate UK, Diamond Light Source, the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL), the U.S.
Department of Energy National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Johnson Matthey, the Royal Society, the Royal Society of Chemistry, and the Iwatani Foundation.
Our most recent large funding awards were awarded from the Research England E3 scheme (£5.8m) and the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership (£1m) .
Discover how you can collaborate with the CEI .
If you're a commercial or academic organisation interested in working with us, please contact our Centre Director, Professor Andy Pickford .
cei@port.ac.uk | +44(0)23 9284 2023

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-healthcare-modelling-and-informatics:
One of the best-known health informatics centres in the UK
The organisations that form the National Health Service (NHS) – and those that provide social care – form a multi-billion pound business sector that impacts on the lives of every single person in the UK.
Thousands of people lose their lives in hospital each year because deterioration in their condition is not spotted early enough for treatment to be effective.
An ageing population also means there's an ever-expanding demand for healthcare.
At the Centre for Healthcare Modelling and Informatics, we're working to develop technology that can make the work of these organisations more efficient.
We conduct research that aims to make the NHS and social care services better for society.
We're using our information systems and computer science expertise to make the day-to-day jobs involved in healthcare delivery and administration easier.
We're using our established links with healthcare and social care professionals to research new solutions to relevant problems – and providing knowledge and expertise to organisations and individuals that want to adopt information, communication and sensing technologies.
And because there's a growing need for better technology that can provide solutions that enable healthcare to be delivered at scale, we're looking for ways to deliver the technology required – and to equip healthcare professionals with the knowledge and skills to use it.
Our researchers covers the following areas of expertise:
We're researching the effective design and use of IT in health and social care to improve how practitioners communicate with patients and to promote patient wellbeing
We're developing and evaluating mathematical and computer models, and collaborating with the NHS, to help make accurate healthcare predictions using health data science.
Explore our clinical outcome modelling research.
We're exploring the use of technology in people’s daily lives to promote independence and wellbeing
Ehmann, R.
A., Briggs, J., Prytherch, D.
16 May 2025,
Geitenbeek, R., Duhoky, R., Piozzi, G., Masum, S.
K., Hopgood, A.
A., Briggs, J., Khan, J., Consten, E.
15 Mar 2025, In: Cancers.
17, 6, 17p., 992
Jacobson, L.
O., Masum, S.
K., Bader-El-Den, M., Hopgood, A.
A., Tamma, V., Prendergast, D., Osborn, P.
29 Nov 2024,
Forouzesh Nejad, A.
A., Arabikhan, F., Williams, N.
L., Gegov, A., Sari, O.
F., Bader-El-Den, M.
9 Oct 2024,
Sari, O.
F., Bader-El-Den, M., Ince, V., Arabikhan, F.
We collaborate with clinical colleagues at Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust.
This underpins our clinical outcome modelling work, and the projects in that area.
We use anonymised data from the hospital to conduct our research.
We collaborate with academic institutions nationally, including the University of Southampton, and the University of Oxford.
Our academic collaborations give us access to specialist skills in areas complementary to our own.
Our work has been funded by various organisations and institutions, including the National Institute for Health Research, Innovate UK, the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, and the Health Innovation Challenge Fund.
We're involved in several major projects:
Briggs, J., Kostakis, I., Kovacs, C., Price, C., Prytherch, D., Robson, S., Scott, P.
Elisavet.Andrikopoulou@port.ac.uk
School of Computing
Farzad.Arabikhan@port.ac.uk
Professor of Informatics
Associate Dean (Research)
Jim.Briggs@port.ac.uk
Innovation and Impact Development Manager
Rinat.Khusainov@port.ac.uk
Haythem.Nakkas@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-interaction-development-and-diversity:
Improving education and diversity policy and practice
We're interested in the role that social interactions play in all aspects of human development.
Our research — informed by our community and academic collaborations — aims to support families, children and professionals in education, employment and care environments.
Research | Collaborations | Staff | Resources
Our research focuses on social and physical interactions in naturalistic settings.
We are interested in developmental changes, across the life span and across cultures.
We focus on inclusivity, neurodiversity, and linguistic and cultural variability.
We are always seeking community partners and volunteers to take part in our research.
If you would like to be involved, please email cidd@port.ac.uk
You can also follow us on Twitter @UoP_CIDD
Taking an interactionist approach to development and diversity
The study of the process of development and its variability lies at the heart of our research.
We use a range of methodological approaches and techniques that emphasise the role of social interaction and everyday experiences in development, rather than focusing on individuals alone.
We study the process of development from early infancy through adolescence to older age groups.
We are also interested in neurodivergent participants, people with intellectual disabilities and other conditions; their relationships with other people and also with the physical world.
We involve community members or community-based organisations in our research; whether this is to co-develop research questions, seeking their advice on the design and protocols for our studies, or drafting actions resulting from our research.
One outcome of these collaborations has been the creation of the Autism Centre for Research on Employment .
Our research centre is committed to address social problems, enhance the local and wider community, and improve educational and diversity policy and practice.
We achieve this by:
Morandotti, C., Rigny, L., Williams, T.
B., Badariotti, J.
I., Miller‐Dicks, M., Bhogal, A.
S., Han, S., Corbett, J., Tipton, M.
J., Costello, J.
T., Mani, A.
7 Jul 2025, In: The Journal of Physiology
Massonnie, J.
26 Jun 2025, In: Leadership Learning Securing Excellence (LLSE) Skillset Magazine.
2
Uzoma, C.
C., Shepherd, A.
I., Saynor, Z.
L., Khan, J.
S., Piozzi, G.
N., Duhoky, R., Askew, C., Ozmen, M.
M., Middleton, T.
F., Masum, S., Perissiou, M.
7 Jun 2025, In: Colorectal Disease.
27, 6, 9p., e70134
Drahota, A., Kandala, N.
01/09/2024 → 31/08/2026
Iris.Nomikou@port.ac.uk
View all Centre staff on Pure
Assessing the efficacy of dogs in Animal Assisted Therapy and the mechanisms of action across a range of therapeutic settings.
Supervisors: Dr Leanne Proops, Dr Eszter Somogyi, Dr Anne McBride (Southampton University).
ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), October 2019 – September 2022.
Discovering Hidden Abilities (DHA): Building Assessment Tools for Children with Atypical Development.
Supervisors: Dr Iris Nomikou, Dr Alessandra Fasulo and Dr Beatriz López.
ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), October 2018 – March 2023.
How does mindfulness affect classroom life?
Supervisors: Dr Eszter Somogyi, Dr Alessandra Fasulo, Dr Daphne Kaklamanou.
ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), March 2019 – March 2023.
Supporting autistic students through university using a collaborative participatory research approach.
Supervisors: Dr Emine Gurbuz, Dr Steven Kapp and Dr Beatriz López.
ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), October 2022 – March 2026.
It takes two to tango: Understanding autistic people’s mental states and facial expressions.
Supervisors: Dr Beatriz López, Dr Steven Kapp and Professor Bridget Waller (Nottingham Trent University).
ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP), October 2019 – March 2027.
We collaborate with several autism community-research groups.
These collaborations are further supported by a thriving research culture, resulting from academic collaborative networks.
Our research collaborations have enabled us to secure funding to advance developmental and diversity theory and improve educational practice and outcomes for children and neurodiverse populations.
Members of our team have developed a series of resources which draw directly from our research.
From online toolkits, lay summaries of autism research, or guidelines on how to include autistic people in the research process.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-innovative-and-sustainable-finance:
Find out more about the cross-disciplinary research taking place in our Centre for Innovative and Sustainable Finance (CISF)
Finance — as both an academic discipline and a tool for modern economic governance — has never been more important.
Finance theory plays a fundamental role in understanding topics such as Fintech, green investment, cybercrime, ethical finance, money laundering, personal credit, national solvency, and issues of Environmental, Social and Governance sustainability.
While maintaining a strong foundation in traditional Finance research, the Centre will engage in cross-disciplinary and collaborative investigations into these and related fields, with the aim of developing a portfolio of projects that will place the CISF at the forefront of theoretical development.
We also aim to support and inspire researchers at all career stages in the creation of new knowledge, and our innovative research underpins and strengthens our Ph.D.
programmes, enabling our doctoral researchers to acquire the up-to-date skills and specialist knowledge essential for careers in Finance and related fields.
Members of the Centre have internationally recognised expertise in diverse areas of Finance, investigating both classical and contemporary issues, and have had impactful research published in international journals — with notable success in the areas of Climate Finance, ESG, Corporate Governance and Corporate Finance.
Recent research has been funded by major funding bodies, including the British Academy and British Council.
Our members have already developed solid relationships with prominent institutions and organisations both in the UK and globally, including the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, NASDAQ, the EU, and overseas governments.
Collaborations have included co-organising events (e.g., conferences/workshops), delivering expert talks on topical issues, and providing consultancy services.
In addition, our members have forged links with research centres across the University — including the Portsmouth Institute of Criminal Justice Studies, the Centre for Blue Governance, the Centre for Operational Research and Logistics, School of Computing, and the School of Education and Sociology.
To read more about the Centre and to see our full list of recent projects and publications, visit our Research Portal .
2 Jul 2025, In: The Conversation
19 Mar 2025, In: The Conversation
12 Feb 2025,
Mamatzakis, E.
C., Tzouvanas, P.
27 Jan 2025, In: Journal of Applied Accounting Research, 30p.
Alberti, F., Gulel, D., Huang, X., Johnston, K., Kapotas, P.
01/04/2023 → 31/03/2026
Our research philosophy and culture aims to nurture the next generation of researchers and innovation leaders, and develop Ph.D.
candidates’ potential.
At the CISF, we deliver Ph.D.
programmes in the above three areas, which are built on our supervisors’ experience and in-depth expertise — and our research culture aims to nurture the next generation of researchers and innovation leaders.
For more information, please email CISF@port.ac.uk or visit the University's Current PhD Projects page .
PhD supervisor (s): Dr.
Roza Sagitova and Dr.
Sonia Brandon
Entry year: Feb 2023
Email: t imothy.detrafford@myport.ac.uk
Supervisors: Dr Paraskevas Pagas (First Supervisor) and Dr Arief Daynes (Second Supervisor)
Entry date: 2022
Email: up2090917@myport.ac.uk
Supervisor: Professor Mark Xu
Entry date: 2020
Email: amine.belmejdoubquotb@myport.ac.uk
Supervisors: Dr.
Entry date: 2019
Email: lilian.muchimba@myport.ac.uk
Supervisors: Professor Homagni Choudhury
Entry: 2022
Email: up2139986@myport.ac.uk
Supervisors: Dr Joe Cox, Prof Andy Thorpe, Dr Xiaodong Wang
Entry: 2021
Email: aswathi.asok@myport.ac.uk
We're looking into the health of the global economy, the wellbeing of individuals, the performance of big and small businesses, and using capital.
Explore our finance research.
Explore the schools within the Faculty of Business and Law, and discover our teaching and research activities.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-operational-research-and-logistics:
In the Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL), we're using our expertise in analytics, data, algorithms, system design, simulation, modelling, programming, and forecasting to help organisations around the world make better decisions.
Our research covers these areas of expertise:
Research in the design of decision support systems, and use of data analysis, to help people make better decisions through a better understanding of their data.
Heuristic and metaheuristic techniques are powerful and flexible research methodologies that offer a faster way of solving complex logistical challenges.
From nurse scheduling to infection and disease modelling, our research provides decision-makers in the healthcare sector with optimal strategies for treatment.
Approaching complex problems with conflicting criteria, or uncertain data, our research helps people make more informed decisions.
As well as improving business efficiency, we're enabling people to make optimal decisions that can lead to practices with enhanced economic, environmental or social benefits.
Modelling to answer a host of questions, from how to produce renewable energy more cheaply, to how the associated logistics can be sustainable.
We help organisations learn from failures, so they can improve the quality and resilience of their operations, and we develop new analytic approaches to detect security threats.
Our research focuses on developing innovative optimisation models and decision support systems, to help improve the mobility of people, goods and services.
Ismail, A.
H., Song, X., Ouelhadj, D., Al-Behadili, M.
25 Jul 2025, In: Expert Systems with Applications.
284, 24p., 127534
Jones, D., Ivanov, O., Arsirii, O., Crook, P., Kanada, L., Labib, A., Teeuw, R., Smyk, S.
15 Apr 2025, In: European Journal of Operational Research
Gonzalez, M., Jones, D., Akbari, N., Vasconcelos, R., Melo, D., Cabral, E., Santiso, A., Godeiro, M.
31 Mar 2025, In: Journal of the Operational Research Society
Sim, C.
K.
4 Mar 2025, In: Optimization Methods and Software.
40, 21p.
Hu, H., Jiang, B., Li, Z.
1 Mar 2025, In: SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications.
46, 1, p.
210-231
A project to deploy drone swarms  capable of autonomous inspection in offshore windfarms.
In partnership with Airborne Robotics and Bluelark
A Future Transport Zone trial programme, funded by the Department for Transport (DfT), that aims to help make journeys easier, smarter and greener.
A project which aims to improve the quality of diagnosis and treatment of localized cancers by developing a new medical robot prototype for brachytherapy and biopsy under guidance of MRI
This project aims to prepare the Arctic and North-Atlantic region for security and safety threats, including traffic through the Northern passages, cruise traffic, and offshore oil and gas activity
An Automatic Arctic Sea Vessel Anomaly Detection (AI-ARC) project, funded by the European Commission.
A cross-disciplinary project, helping investigators to make better judgements about the value of information from interviews and intelligence.
Funded by ESRC and CREST (Centre of Research and Evidence of Security Threats), in collaboration with a subcontracted software development company (Polaris Consulting).
Karar, A.
N., Labib, A., & Jones, D.
In: International Journal of Production Economics, 255, 108702.
This paper aims to assist asset owners in selecting the equipment maintenance package at the warranty termination time; it proposes the shape package process (SPP), which represents a comprehensive process that facilitates the choice between multiple packages, considering the cost and risk associated with each package.
Labib, A., Chakhar, S., Hope, L., Shimell, J., & Malinowski, M.
(2022).
In: Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology , 73(12), 1755-1775.
This paper reports on a series of validation trials in which the performance of individual and team-oriented analysts was accessed with respect to their effectiveness and efficiency.
Labib, A., Abdi, M.
R., Hadleigh-Dunn, S.
& Yazdani, M.
In: Decision Making: Applications in Management and Engineering .
5, 1, p.
113-134 22 p.
The researchers design a framework for organizational learning from major incidents through root cause analysis The case studies contain a purely industrial disaster (Bhopal) and a mixed industrial-natural disaster (Fukushima).
Jones, D., Labib, A., Willis, K.
O., Costello, J., Ouelhadj, D., Ikonen, E.
& Dominguez.Cainzos, M., (2022, Early online).
In: European Journal of Operational Research .
The paper provides a methodology for the mapping and prioritization of needs for research and innovation across a multi-disciplinary topic area.
The methodology is applied to needs arising from the field of Arctic maritime safety and security.
Jones, D., Firouzy, S., Labib, A., & Argyriou, A.
V.
In: European Journal of Operational Research , 297(2), 652-664.
This paper presents a multi-criteria methodology for allocating a small number of novel robotic devices to a set of potential treatment centres in the South of the UK.
F.
(2021).
In: Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering.
This paper's main objective is to design a comprehensive framework for an agile asset performance management (AAPM) system that sustains the desired asset performance by reacting efficiently, quickly and intelligently to the changes in the operating context parameters and asset health conditions.
Rivera, G., Yunusa-Kaltungo, A., & Labib, A.
In: Safety and Reliability (Vol.
40, No.
3, pp.
130-156).
Taylor & Francis.
This paper applies a hybrid method of framework tools to a long-established pattern of small to medium chronic failures in a large Oil & Gas organisation
Yazdani, M., Mohammed, A., Bai, C., & Labib, A.
In: Expert Systems with Applications , 184, 115517.
This paper proposes a novel fuzzy group multiple-criteria decision-making approach through integrating triangular fuzzy hesitant sets (TFHS), Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) and combined compromise solution (CoCoSo) algorithm.
Ghaith, A., Ma, H., & Labib, A.
W.
In: International Journal of Quality & Reliability Management
This research intendz to understand how High-Reliability Organizations (HROs) could produce high quality performance despite their challenging and demanding contexts.
Iglesias-Mendoza, M., Yunusa-Kaltungo, A., Hadleigh-Dunn, S., & Labib, A.
In: Sustainability , 13(4), 2030.
The paper investigates how to train emergency response teams on coping with, and learning from, rare events; a major challenge to other practitioners in the fields of safety and risk management.
Khalil, J., & Labib, A.
In: International Journal of Quality & Reliability Management.
The purpose of this paper is to construct a fuzzy logic model that acts as a decision support system to minimize inventory-related costs in the field of industrial maintenance.
Dylan.Jones@port.ac.uk
School of Mathematics and Physics
Djamila.Ouelhadj@port.ac.uk
Xiang.Song@port.ac.uk
Senior Research Associate
Mohanad.Al-Behadili1@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-port-cities-and-maritime-cultures:
Exploring urban and maritime experiences: past, present and future
‌ Publications | Projects | Members | Events and podcasts | Contact us
The Centre for Port Cities and Maritime Cultures focuses on the past, present and future importance of urban-maritime cultures and communities within a global context.
The increasing concern about social and economic deprivation in coastal communities has underscored the importance of focusing scholarly work on the waterfront.
We're dedicated to investigating the opportunities that exist for cultural and heritage enrichment initiatives and community engagement programmes in this area.
Working with academics, creative practitioners, funders and local community groups, we explore the relationships between urban and maritime spaces and seek to empower our disadvantaged communities.
The Centre produces a newsletter called Maritime Matters every other month.
The next newsletter is out in September.
To subscribe email pcmc@port.ac.uk .
9 June 2025
3 March 2025
16 July 2024
29 July 2025
Guy Collender
25 July 2025
Karl Bell
17 June 2025
19 May 2025
6 May 2025
Various authors.
(2021- ), "Global Studies in Social and Cultural Maritime History", Palgrave Macmillan
This series seeks to reconnect the maritime sphere with broader social and cultural histories across the globe.
It looks to an emergent area of historiography: how the maritime was a space of global social and cultural exchange.
Sage Journals.
Coastal Studies & Society aims to coordinate and direct sustained attention to the relationship between the land and sea and society that comprises a nature-culture hybrid territory which has appeared at the periphery of so many academic inquiries, but at the centre of too few.
A £635,000 grant for a six-year project to learn lessons from past maritime energy transitions has been awarded to the Centre for Port Cities and Maritime Cultures at the University of Portsmouth.
The Portsmouth Literary Map project celebrates Portsmouth as a current and historical city of literature, through an interactive map and ongoing blog.
Professor of Social and Cultural History
Bradley.Beaven@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Cultural and Social History
Karl.Bell@port.ac.uk
Our work also spans these research areas:
We're researching how literature provides insight and understanding into the lives of other individuals, communities and cultures.
We're researching physical and human geography and the causes and effects of social and environmental crises, and finding solutions to these problems.
Email: pcmc@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-studies-in-literature:
Uncovering the history and culture of societies through literature
At the Centre for Studies in Literature, we promote academic research and innovation, and a framework for research excellence in the area of literary studies and associated disciplines.
For over a decade, the Centre has been home to our English Literature research, through which we uncover the history and culture of the English speaking world.
Our researchers have expertise in early modern writing, nineteenth-century literature and culture, and twentieth-century British and American literature.
We bring together scholars from different fields within literary studies to promote academic research and innovation in literary studies, and wider engagement with research through collaboration and dissemination.
The Centre is recognised nationally and internationally due to the expertise of our team of scholars, growing postgraduate community and a series of high-profile academic and public events.
Our members have interests in related fields within film studies, cultural studies and American studies, and we maintain strong links with the Centre for European and International Studies Research (CEISR) .
We've developed mutually-beneficial links with local non-academic organisations, such as the Dimbola Lodge Museum, Portsmouth City Council and the City Museum in the area of literary heritage studies.
We have a particular focus on Dickens and Doyle, both former citizens of Portsmouth, and on Tennyson and Julia Margaret Cameron, both of whom have significant connections with the Isle of Wight.
Habens, A.
30 Sep 2024, In: Revenant, 11, p.
59-77
Sykes, T.
30 Aug 2024, In: Counterfire
Boyce, C.
1 Dec 2022,
Finnerty, P.
14 Apr 2022,
Bowers, M.
1 Dec 2020,
Through the study of literature, culture, sociology and politics, we're exploring how bodies shape political identity, how the body is presented through performance, and how cultural representations of bodies have changed over time.
We're exploring representations of time, space and environment in English Literature and culture – from the eighteenth century to the present day.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/dog-cognition-centre:
Explore our research within the University's Dog Cognition Centre
For a number of reasons, the domestic dog (Canis familiaris) is a very interesting model for investigating different questions regarding the evolution of cognitive abilities.
Domestic dogs have been living with humans for about 15,000–30,000 years.
One hypothesis is that through selection during domestication dogs may have evolved specialized cognitive skills as an adaptation to their unique habitat, the human environment.
Research in the past two decades has shown, for example, that dogs, as a result of selection pressures during domestication, have evolved an understanding of human forms of communication not to be found in other species (including chimpanzees and wolves).
Our research is strictly observational.
There is no invasive research of any kind.
We give the dogs various fun games to solve and by observing their decisions and strategies, we learn about their behaviour and cognitive processes.
Dogs are always rewarded with food or play.
The Centre invites family dogs of all breeds, genders and ages to take part in our fun activities and fun games.
Researchers from the Department of Psychology will be studying all kinds of questions around dog cognition some of which are listed below:
The main question is how flexible dogs' understanding of human communication is.
Dogs are more skillful in making use of human pointing gestures than wolves and even chimpanzees are.
However, we do not yet fully understand how dogs perceive such gestures, if e.g., they understand their referential nature.
In addition, we are interested in dogs' ability to communicate referentially with humans and whether dogs use their communicative signals to e.g., helpfully communicate a referent to the human.
The main question is whether dogs are sensitive to what others can and cannot see.
In our tests the dogs are able to see an object that the human - who is present - cannot see e.g., because the object is in darkness and not illuminated.
We want to know whether dogs take this additional information into account when making a decision to e.g., steal forbidden food.
We are interested in the types of facial expression dogs produce when interacting with other dogs or with humans.
We are also interested in the question how flexible dogs production of facial expression is and whether dogs e.g., intentionally produce certain facial expression to manipulate humans.
To study dogs’ facial expression we developed Dog FACS .
Apart from being interested in how dogs understand their social environment, we are also interested in how dogs understand their physical environment.
What do dogs understand about causal relationships?
Do dogs understand that objects continue to exist after they have disappeared from the dog’s view?
We are interested in questions regarding dogs’ cooperative interactions with other dogs and/or with humans.
We are also interested in questions regarding helping in dogs.
Though many anecdotes suggest that dogs sometimes help humans (e.g., by recruiting potential helpers when their owner is in distress), as of yet there is not enough research to address this question scientifically.
Here we are especially interested to know whether dogs have the motivation to help others but also the cognitive capacity to understand when help is necessary and what to do to fulfill another individual’s goal.
We're always looking for volunteers to take part in our dog cognition research studies.
If you're interested in registering you and your dog, please fill in the form below.
We accept volunteer research assistants for (minimum) 3 month placements.
Please contact Juliane Kaminski for further information.
At the Dog Cognition Centre, we're answering some of the biggest questions in canine research.
[Did you know there's a Dog Cognition Centre at the University of Portsmouth?]
[It was the first to open in the UK, and investigates how canines communicate and think]
Speaker 1: We run dog research studies here looking into dog human communication, dog cognition, things like that, where owned dogs come in and they basically take part in some fun activities.
Mainly where they get dog treats.
For a study, we can work with anywhere between 20 and 40 dogs usually, but we work with all breeds.
We seem to have a lot of labradors but I like working with them.
So it's great.
So World Pet Day we're looking for dog owners to join our database.
It's just answering a couple of questions about your dog.
So its age its name, whether they are friendly, whether they like food and then – that was a a loud one, that's just her yawn.
Yeah that's right.
So on World Pet Day, we're looking for owners to sign up to our dog register.
It just involves them giving the name, some small information about their dog and kind of what their dogs likes, whether they're toy motivated, food motivated and then it means we can contact them and they can take part in studies here at the Dog Centre.
Mainly looking for people, if they're coming to the centre, to be around Portsmouth, in the local area.
But then sometimes we might have like an online survey or something that dogs can take part in further away.
[Head to port.ac.uk/news to find out how to sign your four-legged friend up!]
20 February 2023
18 October 2021
Lockdown stopped many puppies developing the social skills they need to navigate the human world with confidence.
8 February 2023

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/global-plastics-policy-centre:
Developing sustainable, evidence-based solutions
Plastics have been found in every location that has been surveyed, from the depths of the ocean to the heights of the Himalayas — and even in human blood.
And plastic has another, less visible, environmental impact — climate change.
Seventeen million barrels of oil are used for plastic production each year.
With the anticipated growth in the plastics sector, by 2050 production and disposal will be responsible for up to 13 per cent of the world’s total “carbon budget” of greenhouse gas emissions .
Plastic pollution is also reducing the resilience of communities and the natural world to cope with the effects of a changing climate.
Plastic pollution is a global, transboundary problem requiring urgent coordinated policy action on all levels, from local to international.
Around the world, many countries and businesses have adopted measures to reduce plastic pollution, including banning certain plastic items such as bags or straws, introducing better waste collection, sorting and recycling facilities, and introducing taxes to discourage the use of certain plastics in products.
But it’s not enough to look at interventions in isolation.
The entire lifecycle of plastics must be considered holistically to identify sustainable solutions.
To do so, evidence-based analysis of plastics policies is needed to help policy-makers and decision-makers successfully tackle plastic pollution and its effects on people and the planet.
And this is exactly what the Global Plastics Policy Centre aims to achieve.
Visit the Global Plastics Policy Centre website
We’ve found that the existing plastic policy landscape often addresses specific plastic products or stages within the plastic lifecycle in an isolated way that inhibits joined-up approaches to tackle the plastic problem.
Currently there are no global agreements that offer an all-encompassing framework for plastics sustainability.
But the commitment from 175 nations to develop a legally-binding agreement to end plastic pollution, agreed at the UN Environment Assembly in March 2022, offers a pathway forward.
The negotiations for this Global Plastics Treaty are ongoing.
The Global Plastics Policy Centre is playing a key role in generating evidence to inform the Treaty and its implementation.
The Global Plastics Policy Centre is the first of its kind.
It’s designed to give governments and industry groups the evidence needed to make better decisions on plastic policies.
It’s one of the core research centres of the University’s Revolution Plastics Institute .
Focused on positive change, the Centre analyses plastic policies as they are developed around the world.
It provides a central point for information, effectiveness and barriers to plastics policy success.
We aim to convene a global community around plastics policy.
In 2022 the Centre launched an online platform with resources, case studies and videos to showcase effective practice in plastic policy.
Our researchers believe this unique resource will ultimately help reduce the negative impacts of plastics.
Antaya March
7 May 2025
1 April 2025
We’ve independently reviewed over 150 plastics policies and initiatives from around the world, including bans on single use plastics, incentives such as subsidies/tax rebates, regulations on recycling and waste management.
Each policy has been scored against criteria to determine its effectiveness and to identify barriers to progress.
In light of this evidence, we offer recommendations to enhance future policy making.
Antaya March, Dr Keiron Roberts and Prof Steve Fletcher from the Global Plastics Policy Centre were the lead authors on this report.
It was commissioned by UNEP to inform the Global Plastics Treaty negotiations.
Focusing on select “hot topics” from the treaty negotiations, our policy briefs bring together key evidence from various data sources to shed light on each topic and aid the countries in their decision making journey.
Published around each Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee (INC) meeting, our policy briefs have covered the Effectiveness of National Action Plans , the policy enablers for reuse in the Treaty and What is Mission Critical for an effective Global Plastics Treaty?
Keep track our treaty-based research , the progress of the negotiations, and updates from each INC meeting.
We're working with stakeholders to use their lived experiences to inform the development of the Global Plastics Treaty and national level policy.
The first was a piece of legislative theatre highlighting the challenges that informal waste pickers face and what an effective plastics treaty should consider to ensure their needs are met.
The Global Plastics Policy Centre is supported by the Flotilla Foundation, the UN Environment Programme, the World Bank, and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
For further information about the work of the Centre, please contact globalplastics@port.ac.uk .
Interested journalists can contact the University's Media and Communications team for support and advice on all media engagement.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/heritage-hub:
Innovative and interdisciplinary approaches to documenting, preserving and presenting heritage for the future
We encourage traditional, creative and innovative methods and tools to protect and preserve tangible and intangible heritage.
With communities at the heart of our research and innovation activities, the hub promotes cross- and interdisciplinary approaches to preserving both tangible and intangible heritage for communities, policy-makers and organisations.
Our interdisciplinary approaches are represented in six heritage-based areas:
Oral histories allow us to better understand the thoughts, feelings and motivations of ordinary people in a way that ‘official’ historical documents cannot.
We can:
This theme focuses on landscape change and preserving our ecological heritage.
We have ongoing collaborations with Fishbourne Roman Palace and Cumberland House Natural History Museum.
At Fishbourne we aim to build an understanding of how landscapes and land use have evolved over the past 2,000 years, and how people relate to landscapes and perceive these changes.
With Cumberland House Natural History Museum, we are digitising and cataloguing botanical specimens within the Portsmouth Museums herbarium collection (PMH), to make them available to the wider research community, citizen scientists and amateur naturalists.
In today’s evolving world, celebrating the past, promoting and valuing heritage engenders people’s engagement with heritage, and heritage can contribute to both social, business and economic development and growth.
The aspirations of this theme relate to the conservation and preservation of heritage assets and culture.
They accord to circular economy, sustainability and low carbon optimisation for the productivity of culture and heritage assets and in capturing the value of these along with the economics of their uniqueness.
Central to this is a focus on wellbeing, inclusive growth and accessibility.
The main focus of this theme is community outreach to help share and connect our heritage research with a wider audience.
This work includes efforts around identifying, collecting and preserving heritage collections which may comprise objects, archival material and oral histories.
We also aim to identify appropriate funding opportunities and enable the creation of strong funding bids in partnership with community and heritage organisations.
Our aspirations are to build and strengthen relationships with stakeholders in Portsmouth and beyond, as well as to support and develop local heritage capacity.
Digital heritage is an emerging multidisciplinary field that combines the expertise of heritage management, museum studies, history, archaeology, conservation, preservation and current digital and emerging technologies.
Digital heritage conducts research on the impact and application of digital technologies in a cultural heritage context.
It seeks to create novel approaches and opportunities for understanding and experiencing the past, ensuring that cultural heritage remains relevant and accessible in the digital age.
Portsmouth’s local built heritage derives from maritime heritage and shapes people’s heritage.
As a hub of naval architecture and maritime culture within Britain’s invasion coast, the city connected global naval bases and dockyards whose communities blended and returned, like Bermuda’s 1950 dockyard apprentices.
This theme focuses on the community’s intimate engagement with and vision of its built heritage through the Portsea Heritage Project, Growing Portsea and Treadgold’s stories, building resilience and intergenerational connections.
This project is part of a bigger collaboration between the university and the Fishbourne Roman Palace Museum that aims to reframe the current interpretation of the palace through the co-creation of digital interpretations that engage younger generations in exploring the ruins.
The network aims to offer networking and educational activities concerning urban regeneration, a crucial working and research issue in Middle Eastern cities particularly after Syrian crisis which affected the Syrian cities as well as the cities in neighbouring countries (for example Jordan).
This fund is meant to support the researchers to collaborate with MOD in exploring and connecting different communities related to Tyneham Village and bringing them together to explore the potential of the site and possible large-scale, collaborative research and educational projects that could be launched as part of telling the site stories and heritage narratives in an inclusive way.
This project enables the piloting of crucial XR support for Portsmouth Tourism, lowering the barrier of entry to XR technology.
eXRe will maximise benefits of an innovative world-class local facility to directly meet Portsmouth’s challenges and strategic priorities, present and future.
Integrate the UK's marine and maritime heritage collections; establish meaningful links between wreck sites, artefacts; transform our ability to search those collections; use Al and machine learning to create innovative ways of searching these collections to generate entirely new ways of understanding this heritage.
The project provides an essential research step that informs future work on smart village frameworks for resilient and sustainable development and community wellbeing.
The work will be developed in collaboration with Fishbourne and Weald and Downland Museums and local communities from their related villages (Fishbourne and Singleton).
Teba, T., ElZoghby, N., Gharib, N.
(2021) "The Role of Architectural Heritage in offering a more resilient lockdown in Egypt", Health & Environmental Resilience and Livability in Cities (HERL)
Ece Atabay, Z., Macedonio, A., Teba, T., Gül Ünal, Z.
(2022) "Destruction, heritage and memory: post-conflict memorialisation for recovery and reconciliation", Journal of Cultural Heritage Management and Sustainable Development
Bailey-Ross, C.S.
(2021) "Online User Research Literature Review: UK Gallery, Library, Archive and Museum (GLAM) Digital Collection", Zenodo
Warwick, C., Bailey-Ross, C.S.
(2020) "The impact of digital resources", Digital Technology and the Practices of Humanities Research
McBride, K.
(2022) "It's a gift - Samuel Pepys and Sir William Warren, an autoethnographic account of gifts, bribes and kickbacks", European Accounting Association EAA Annual Congress
McBride, K., Atkins, J.
(2023) "The Picturesque Roots of Impression Management: Framing, Claude Glass and ‘Rose’ Tinted Lens?", 2023 International Accounting and Auditing Conference: Accounting for Planet, People and Profit - Johannesburg, South Africa
McBride, K., Sagitova, R., Cam, O.
(2023) "'As bad as bad can be’: accounting for species extinction in the North Pacific", Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal
The Heritage Hub is built on a cross-disciplinary professional approach that provides a focus for historical, archaeological and community based research for the south of Hampshire and beyond.
With academic partners, authorities, stakeholders and local communities, we commit to explore and develop diverse streams of funding that contribute to local, national and international heritage matters.
We are open to exploring community led (e.g.
Heritage Lottery Fund , Historic England ), government (e.g.
UK Shared Prosperity Fund ) as well as academic (e.g.
UKRI and Horizon Europe) funding streams.
Each year in September, the Heritage Hub hosts Heritage Week.
This series of events is an opportunity for academics and the public to discover the latest in heritage research at the university and how our expertise can benefit the wider community in Portsmouth and beyond.
4 December 2024
23 June 2023
13 January 2023
Acquire the techniques, legal, and management skills you need for professional practice in this Building and Heritage Conservation Master's.
Accredited by the Institute of Historical Building Conservation.
Start date: September 2025 January 2026
Heritage Hub chairs
We're investigating the impact and application of experience design and digital technology in the cultural and heritage sectors to improve visitor experiences and conserve cultural and historical sites.
Email: heritage-hub@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/institute-of-life-sciences-and-healthcare:
Our multidisciplinary research environment supports the translation of science for societal benefit
The Institute of Life Sciences and Healthcare (ILSH) promotes an integrated, inclusive and supportive research environment for Research and Innovation (R&I) activities spanning the life sciences and healthcare space.
90% of our research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour in the REF2021 Research Excellence Framework .
Cross-disciplinary R&I activity in ILSH, often in partnership with healthcare and industry, is characterised by its breadth and capability to address important questions on multiple levels to achieve real-world impact.
ILSH represents research across four synergistic R&I Thematic Research Groupings:
Focused on advancing the understanding and manipulation of biological molecules for discovery
Bridges fundamental scientific research with clinical applications to tackle human diseases
Develops and optimises delivery systems for targeted therapeutic interventions
Developing innovative solutions to improve healthcare and wellbeing
These Thematic Research Groupings support extensive collaboration within ILSH, with NHS trusts, patient groups, industry, and with national and international research institutes.
This extensive network reflects our multidisciplinary approach to research in the biosciences and provides an environment that supports the translation of our fundamental science for societal benefit.
This includes, for example, R&I activities within clinical practice, biomedical research, genomics, model organism work, diagnostic development, therapeutics, data science, artificial intelligence, and engineering biology.
Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics
Anastasia.Callaghan@port.ac.uk
Professor of Genomics and Bioinformatics
Samuel.Robson@port.ac.uk
School of Medicine, Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences
Impact Lead
Associate Head (Employability and Placements)
Robert.Baldock@port.ac.uk
Priyanka.Dey@port.ac.uk
Christian.Jorgensen@port.ac.uk
To get in touch, please contact the Institute of Life Sciences and Healthcare Administrator.
+44 (0)23 9284 2994
ILSH@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/institute-of-cosmology-and-gravitation:
Our research covers galaxies and stars, large-scale structures, gravitational waves and dark energy
The Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation (ICG) is an international centre of research excellence in cosmology, gravitation and astrophysics.
Our Cosmology and Astrophysics research investigates the evolution of galaxies and their stars, the early universe and large-scale structure in the cosmos, as well as the energy content of the Universe and the nature of gravity.
Through the work of the institute, we seek to understand the physics of the Universe and inspire the next generation of scientist through education, training and outreach.
We also innovate using our advanced skills in mathematics and data science.
100% of ICG research was judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent in the REF2021 Research Excellence Framework .
Scientists at the ICG play leading roles in major ongoing international collaborations and projects, including the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST), the European Space Agency Euclid satellite , the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) and the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA).
Follow the links below for more details about these and many other projects that we are involved in at the ICG.
View all staff Research with us Career development
Research at the Institute covers theoretical and observational cosmology and astrophysics, and their interface, and is supported by Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC), Royal Society, European Research Council (ERC) and European Union (EU) funding.
Within the 4 areas of expertise below, our work covers topics including the very early universe, dark energy, testing gravity on cosmological scales, large scale structure, gravitational lensing.
supernovae, galaxy evolution, and stellar population modelling.
We're working to better understand the basic building blocks of our Universe, the origin of stars, the formation and evolution of galaxies, and stellar population models.
Explore our astrophysics research
We're mapping the Universe on the largest scales to understand dark energy, studying the clustering of galaxies and dark matter, and observing transient events and supernovae.
We're exploring the inflation of the very early Universe, the impact of dark energy on its geometry and developing tests to monitor its expansion.
We're detecting cosmic gravitational waves and developing gravitational-wave observations as an astronomical tool.
Bader-El-Den, M., Canning, B., Golcarenarenji, G., Mohasseb, A., Shiaeles, S., Song, X.
03/03/2025 → 29/02/2028
Aucott, P., Canning, B., Ekinsmyth, C., Lundgren, A., Morice-Atkinson, X., Southall, H., Westwood, J., Zangoura, C.
01/06/2024 → 30/09/2025
Baker, T.
01/10/2023 → 31/12/2026
Bonne, N., Trayford, J., Youles, S.
Amara, A., Butt, L., Hopgood, A.
01/10/2022 → 30/09/2025
Nandal, D., Buldgen, G., Whalen, D.
J., Regan, J., Woods, T.
E., Tan, J.
C.
1 Aug 2025, In: Astronomy and Astrophysics
Guo, B., Chen, Z., Maggio, L., Wu, W., Liu, S., Tamma, V., Fan, J.
22 Jul 2025, In: Physical Review Applied.
112, 12p., 013719
Hoy, C., Akçay, S., Mac Uilliam, J., Thompson, J.
15 Jul 2025, In: Nature Astronomy, 12p.
Collaboration, D., Adame, A.
G., Aguilar, J., Ahlen, S., Alam, S., Alexander, D.
M., Prieto, C.
A., Alvarez, M., Alves, O., Anand, A., Andrade, U., Armengaud, E., Avila, S., Aviles, A., Awan, H., Bahr-Kalus, B., Baltay, C., Bault, A., Behera, J., BenZvi, S., Beutler, F., Bianchi, D., Blake, C., Blum, R., Bonici, M., Brieden, S., Brodzeller, A., Brooks, D., Buckley-Geer, E., Burtin, E., Calderon, R., Canning, R., Rosell, A.
C., Cereskaite, R., Cervantes-Cota, J.
L., Findlay, N., Gaztañaga, E., Gil-Marín, H., Gonzalez-Perez, V., Gsponer, R., Howlett, C., Manera, M., Mueller, E., Nadathur, S., Percival, W.
J., Pieri, M.
M., Ross, A.
J., Ruggeri, R., Samushia, L., Wang, M.
Show more authors
9 Jul 2025, In: Journal of Cosmology and Astroparticle Physics.
2025, 07, 56p., 028
M., Alvarez, M., Alves, O., Anand, A., Andrade, U., Armengaud, E., Avila, S., Aviles, A., Awan, H., Baltay, C., Bault, A., Behera, J., BenZvi, S., Beutler, F., Bianchi, D., Blake, C., Blum, R., Brieden, S., Brodzeller, A., Brooks, D., Brown, Z., Buckley-Geer, E., Burtin, E., Calderon, R., Canning, R., Rosell, A.
L., Chabanier, S., Chaussidon, E., Findlay, N., Gaztañaga, E., Gil-Marín, H., Gonzalez-Perez, V., Gsponer, R., Howlett, C., Manera, M., Mueller, E., Nadathur, S., Percival, W.
4 Jul 2025, In: Journal of Cosmology and Astroparticle Physics.
2025, 07, 85p., 017
The Securing the Future of Space: Space Software and Data/AI Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Programme , funded by the UK Space Agency, aims to equip mid-career professionals with vital software, data, and AI skills to address critical shortages and secure the future of the UK space sector.
This course, delivered by experts from the Space South Central partnership of universities of Portsmouth, Southampton and Surrey, offers participants the tools to navigate the rapidly advancing fields of AI and data science:
Securing the future of space: The critical role of data and software in the UK space sector
The importance of FPGAs in the space sector
Why signals are important for space applications
The vital role of embedded control systems in the space sector
How do we ensure the security of space applications?
Lift off for new course as part of £2.1m funding to address skills gap in UK space sector
Round two for Space South Central programme to bridge UK space industry skills gap
University of Portsmouth delivers vital skills training to address UK space industry shortage
Our world-leading scientists teach on our undergraduate and postgraduate maths and physics degree courses.
The University offers a range of undergraduate courses in mathematics and physics , including:
We also offer PhDs at the ICG – visit our Cosmology and Gravitation postgraduate research page for details of our current pre-approved funded and self-funded PhDs, and to find out more about our PhD studentships.
We welcome applications from all qualified applicants, but applications are particularly encouraged from traditionally under-represented groups in science.
The University of Portsmouth holds an Athena SWAN bronze award and is an Institute of Physics Project Juno Supporter; these projects show a commitment to introduce organisational and cultural practices that promote gender equality in science and create a better working environment for men and women.
The Athena SWAN Charter was established by the Equality Challenge Unit to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research.
The University of Portsmouth has been awarded Athena SWAN Bronze as a Higher Education Institution , and the Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze award, in recognition of the good employment practice in place within the department.
We believe everyone has the right to work and study with dignity and respect, free from harassment and bullying.
We're committed to widening participation in higher education, whether you are an undergraduate student, postgraduate student, postdoctoral researcher or staff member.
It's essential we understand and accommodate everyone’s individual needs for our continued success.
Within the ICG, Laura Nuttall is our Dignity and Respect Champion – for more information on the work we're doing, email laura.nuttall@port.ac.uk.
We're committed to inspiring the next generation of scientists through our programme of outreach and public engagement, working with local schools and online communities through citizen science projects.
In 2016 – 2018, the ICG hosted an Isaac Physics Fellow (Dr Nic Bonne) who ran physics problem solving sessions for students and CPD sessions for teachers.
While the Isaac Physics Fellow scheme is no longer running you can still access the free online resources that Isaac Physics offer.
See the official Cosmic Stroll website for the app that allows you to take a virtual reality stroll through the cosmos.
Here is a custom version of Galaxy Zoo for Year 5 designed specifically for outreach sessions as part of our “A Visit from Space” offering to Primary Schools.
Please note that clicks collected on that site are not used for research.
To contribute to research you need to visit the real version of Galaxy Zoo .
The ‘Build your own Universe’ kit was provided by SEPnet and developed at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL).
Alternatively you can download the instruction booklet from the link below.
‘Build your own Universe’ instruction booklet (pdf)
You may have looked through a CD spectroscope at one of our public events and seen how sources of light split up into different colours.
It is easy to make your own spectroscope at home using a CD and a cardboard container, the ones that we have on our stands tend to be made using cereal boxes or kitchen roll tubes.
There are lots of websites with instructions for making a CD spectroscope.
This video from Dr Andrew Steele shows you how to make a CD spectroscope that is similar to the ones that we have on display and this website shows lots of examples of the different types of spectra that you can see by looking at different types of light.
In 2017, the Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation introduced a new strategic schools outreach programme, focusing our schools outreach (key stage 2–4) on working with three partner secondary schools in Portsmouth and their feeder primary/junior schools.
The idea behind this change is to provide a coherent programme of events and activities that school pupils will participate in throughout their school career, with the goal of moving away from one-off interactions to a sustained programme of repeat engagements with the same pupils.
This unfortunately means that we have limited capacity to work with other schools.
Events that are open to schools outside of the schools outreach programme will be advertised and booked through the University of Portsmouth Recruitment and Outreach Team .
However, if you have any questions about the schools outreach programme, or the ICG’s outreach and public engagement strategy, then please contact the ICG Public Engagement and Outreach Manager, Dr Jen Gupta ( jennifer.gupta@port.ac.uk ).
ICG outreach activities are delivered both on campus at the university and on site at schools, by fully-trained members of the ICG and physics undergraduate students, and are free for the school.
The ICG schools outreach programme is supported by the South East Physics Network (SEPnet) and The Ogden Trust .
Physics outreach to key stage 5 students, including Physics Taster Days at the university and talks in colleges, is organised through the Faculty of Technology.
For more information please contact the Faculty of Technology Outreach Coordinator, James Allen, on james.allen1@port.ac.uk .
The ICG is home to the Tactile Universe , a project to open up topics in astrophysics to young people with vision impairments.
We have created lesson plans and activities that use tactile images of galaxies and other astronomical objects, and trained people across the UK to use and deliver workshops using these resources.
For more information, please visit the Tactile Universe website .
7 August 2025
14 July 2025
9 July 2025
Indranil Banik
Enrique Gaztanaga
17 December 2024
Becky Canning
8 October 2024
27 September 2024
We’re working on applying our expertise in physics, astronomy and data analysis to developing space missions here in Portsmouth, for applications including dark matter searches, humanitarian aid and ecosystem monitoring.
Director of ICG
David.Bacon@port.ac.uk
Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation Dennis Sciama Building Burnaby Road Portsmouth PO1 3FX Telephone: +44 (0)23 9284 5151 Email us

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/about-us/our-facilities/lab-and-testing-facilities/institute-of-marine-sciences:
Location: Ferry Road, Portsmouth
The Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS) is a marine station with an international reputation for providing high quality marine research and teaching.
It's been at the forefront of marine biology for more than 70 years.
IMS is located within metres of the sea on the shore of Langstone Harbour.
It provides access to the varied marine ecosystems of the Solent European Marine Site, which are rich in bio-fouling organisms.
Students and researchers use our facilities to monitor and test marine environments and seawater.
This includes looking at how humans impact marine ecosystems and how materials react to different marine environments.
The research conducted at IMS is multidisciplinary.
Strong research links exist between the School of the Environment and Life Sciences , the University of Portsmouth Environmental Network (UPEN) and the wider research community.
External organisations that have used our facilities include QinetiQ, the Building Research Establishment (Bre), Thales, Balmoral Offshore Engineering, and the Research Council of Norway.
Our aquatic centre houses an aquarium and seawater system.
The seawater is sourced directly from Langstone Harbour, which is processed via a settlement system with glass media filtration, and serves two independent lines delivered to the aquatic centre.
This is a unique facility available for short and long-term marine monitoring and submersion trials.
Regular samples can be collected from panels and other structures deployed on the platform.
Instruments or panels may be immersed at any level from the surface to the sea bed, and equipment can be attached to the platform above the water.
The platform can also be used for marine remote sensing equipment and tidal turbine trials.
Perform research in our aquatic centre, study various marine organisms and assess how ecosystems are affected by changes in the environment.
The IMS offers excellent facilities for commercial use, visiting researchers, alongside marine consultancy and extensive expertise.
Specialisations include marine efficacy testing, biofilm growth, immersion and exposure testing of building materials, treated wood analyses, and marine micro-plastics research.
We cater to marine, maritime, construction, renewable energy, engineering, and utility sectors.
Our aquatic centre facilities are also available for hire, and we provide a range of research services from wood treatment to exposure testing of new building materials.
To contact us about using our facilities or services, please contact us:
IMS@port.ac.uk
Use the latest physical and meteorological equipment in our labs, including a rainfall simulator and automatic weather stations.
Institute of Marine Sciences Building C (Aquatic Centre), Ferry Road, Southsea, Portsmouth, Hampshire, PO4 9LY
Explore the Faculty of Science and Health at the University of Portsmouth, and learn more about the teaching and research activities that take place within the Faculty's different departments and schools.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/international-centre-for-research-in-forensic-psychology:
Discover our current research, facilities, projects, partners and funding
The International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology (ICRFP) has an established international reputation for conducting a broad range of criminological and forensic psychology research.
Centre activities are overseen by Dr Renan Saraiva (Director) and Dr.
Zarah Vernham (Deputy Director).
Research in Forensic Psychology has been a cornerstone of the Department of Psychology since 1990 and the Centre now comprises an impressive team of research staff and students.
Our primary aim is to deliver high quality research in Forensic Psychology at both national and international level.
Our work has been funded by the Economic and Social Research Centre (ESRC), Home Office, British Academy, Nuffield Foundation, United States Government, Leverhulme Trust, British Psychological Society and Prison Service Headquarters.
Several members of the Centre also regularly serve as expert witnesses.
Learn about the leading research being carried out within the International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology, part of our Department of Psychology.
Dr Leanne Proops: In the psychology department at the University of Portsmouth, we really pride ourselves in having all of our staff being research active.
From research, looking at burglars’ decision making processes right through to transforming the way that policing and security agencies are interviewing and gathering information across the globe.
Dr Renan Saraiva: The ICRFP, at the University of Portsmouth, is concerned with almost everything in forensic psychology.
So, for example, some of our research is on lie detection in forensic contexts, eyewitness testimony, risk assessment and jury decision making.
The overarching goal of our research is to create safer and more just societies in terms of improving our criminal justice systems, not only in the UK but also worldwide.
To achieve our goals, a lot of our research focuses on, for example, creating better procedures for investigations and creating innovative procedures for risk assessments.
I'm very proud to be a part of the centre and seeing those solutions and creative ideas emerging on a daily basis.
Lina Hillner: I'm doing a PhD in forensic psychology and my research relates to the information elicitation context, investigative interviewing, and source handler relationships.
Basically, any situation that you can imagine where somebody wants some information from someone else.
And basically what I'm looking at is how to build rapport in these situations, because rapport building improves the information that you get from someone.
And rapport building is also very central to ethically eliciting information.
Knowing that my research will hopefully have a real life impact, it makes me feel very proud and it also keeps you going and it keeps you motivated to just go ahead, do your research while having the ultimate goal in mind that down the line you might be helping a witness or a victim have a better interviewing experience.
The networking aspect of the ICRFP has been very beneficial to me because it's very important to have these kind of networking opportunities and talk to more experienced researchers.
To have this kind of interaction, doing the research, but applying the research and how to basically best navigate your way through the academic world.
Dr Dominic Pearson: We did some research a couple of years ago now looking at the Fire Setters Integrated Responsive Educational Programme, which is a rehabilitation programme run by the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Fire and Rescue Service.
So the people taking part in the programme are deliberate fire setters and the programme looks to see if it can reduce the extent to which those people re-offend.
The research was important because I don't personally believe it's justifiable to stick people in prison and do nothing productive or constructive with them.
With fire setting reoffending, there's no particular programmes that are available for the majority of offenders.
So this programme is now a sentencing option.
55 people a year die from deliberate fire setting, so if we can reduce even one of those, that's an incredible result.
Sometimes students don't see a bridge between academic work and the real world, and here we have a direct bridge.
That's fundamentally important to student learning.
Matthew Talbot: I work with members of the general public trying to help them understand burglars a bit better and hopefully take preventative action around their own homes.
We've done a lot of research in the department focusing on how burglars operate, how they scale to neighbourhood, what they do when they're inside a home and now we’re using virtual reality to basically teach that to householders.
So the reason we use virtual reality comes from two different strands.
It's been found in the research with burglars to be very good at simulating neighbourhoods and houses that we otherwise couldn’t really model.
People who do virtual reality training tend to remember what they're told a lot better.
They can put themselves in the shoes of the person they’re being trained to be like and they tend to perform behaviours a lot better afterwards.
Well, the real world impact is to train people to help prevent burglaries going forward.
We're hoping as well that we can create specific training to very specific groups because different houses have different risk factors.
I'm proud of the research that I'm doing because it has a real world impact and even just the participants that I use for the purpose of generating the research go away saying how much fun they've had with the project, how much they've learnt about how to prevent burglary.
It makes me feel really good as well because I'm sending people away thinking that they can help prevent burglaries.
Dr Lucy Akehurst: Some of the research that I conduct at the Department of Psychology concerns the investigative interviewing of vulnerable people, and that includes children as suspects and as witnesses and victims, also adults who've been victim of particularly serious crimes.
When we have conducted our research projects, we can then talk to police officers where we can tell them about our research findings, tell them about the best ways to interview those vulnerable populations because our main aim, of course, is to try and get the best evidence that we can into the courtroom.
I'm incredibly proud of the research that I've been doing.
I've been at it for quite a few years now.
I think one of the reasons why I feel proud is because of that impact.
I feel that even if a couple of police officers take on board some of the research findings and implement it in their everyday lives, when they're interviewing children and other vulnerable witnesses, then I feel that it's really making a difference.
Gadda Salhab: As a PhD student here at the university, I’m currently looking at interview strategies that promote honesty in child witnesses.
This is very important because we know for a fact that children are capable of lying and that adults are not very accurate at detecting children's deception.
They can lead to a lot of miscarriages of justice.
So it's really important for us to, rather than try to see if a child was honest in their answers, just try to make them more honest from the beginning.
The results of my research hopefully will inform practitioners on the effective as well as ineffective strategies that work with making child witnesses more honest.
I'm really proud of the work that I'm doing.
I think the most rewarding part of it for me is giving voice to a vulnerable population.
Dr Leanne Proops: I'm really proud of all the research that we do here at Portsmouth.
We really place a lot of importance here on making sure that the research we do really relates to a whole range of cultures and that we're not just looking at one particular area and one particular country and really get a good understanding of what it's like to be a human across the globe.
Work in the ICRFP covers the following sub-topics:
Giorgianni, D., Vrij, A., Leal, S., Deeb, H.
1 Jul 2025, In: The European Journal of Psychology Applied to Legal Context.
17, 2, p.
101-110
Pearson, D., Spearing, L., Fletcher, N.
30 Jun 2025, In: British Journal of Community Justice
Hope, L., Hawkins de Namor, N., Gabbert, F., Ferenczi, N., Oxburgh, G.
15 May 2025, In: Journal of Criminal Psychology
Radcliffe, P.
J., Patihis, L.
11 May 2025, In: Memory
Korkman, J., Filipović, L., Hope, L.
Renan.Saraiva@port.ac.uk
Haneen.Deeb@port.ac.uk
Ana.Gheorghiu@port.ac.uk
Professor of Applied Cognitive Psychology
Lorraine.Hope@port.ac.uk
Jonathan.Koppel@port.ac.uk
Senior Research Fellow
Sharon.Leal@port.ac.uk
Samantha.Mann@port.ac.uk
Lawrence.Patihis@port.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Clinical Research and Practice in Forensic Psychology
Dominic.Pearson@port.ac.uk
Sarah.Paquette@port.ac.uk
Professor of Social Psychology
Aldert.Vrij@port.ac.uk
Stefana.Juncu@port.ac.uk
Emeritus Professor
claire.nee@port.ac.uk
Our virtual reality lab facilitates re-enactment of risky situations for offenders and non-offenders so we can assess decision-making and emotion as it happens.
Our interview suite consists of one-way observational facilities, discrete cameras and audio recording equipment.
One room is set up to mimic a police interview room and is used for training in investigative techniques in criminal justice settings, such as gathering evidence from vulnerable witnesses, and undertaking research with offenders.
A second room is set up to mimic a lounge and is used for mock burglary scenarios, and exploring child behaviour in an informal environment.
Our large observation suite has a versatile room with modular seating, one-way mirrors, digital video recording and remote audio-visual equipment.
The suite has been used for all types of group observational work, including testing minority influence scenarios, deception studies and jury decision making.
Our digital analysis and video editing suite has dedicated computing facilities that run video analysis software.
A photo booth allows the researcher to take standard pictures for use in studies involving police line-ups and mugshots.
Our applied cognition laboratory allows for simultaneous testing of multiple participants on computer-based experiments.
Our smaller testing rooms allow for individual testing.
We also have eye tracking laboratories.
Sadly, our friend and colleague Dr James Ost, Head of the School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences, died in February 2019 after a short, but incredibly brave battle with cancer.
James was a part of our community since the early 1990s, first as an undergraduate and then a PhD student.
In 2000, after his interview to become a Lecturer in the School of Psychology, Sport and Health Sciences, the late Professor Dave Rodgers accurately predicted that he would be a future Head of Department.
He was an internationally respected researcher with expertise in false and recovered memories, metacognition and pseudoscientific beliefs about memory.
He was a great leader, with his own inimitable style.
He was an inspirational and award winning teacher, but most of all, he was kind and supportive to all he worked with, staff and students alike.
It is hard to find the right words at this time when so many people in Psychology, the Science Faculty, the University and indeed world-wide are in shock and disbelief at this tragic news.
It is a tribute to James that so many people, far and wide are feeling the weight of his loss.
We remember him not just for his fantastic work and his commitment to, and passion for, Psychology but also his unwaveringly informal dress sense and his wicked sense of humour which included uncannily good impersonations.
Perhaps the most fitting testament at this time stems from two things that James taught many of us, by example, the value of kindness in all that we do and the importance of spending valuable time devoted to family and loved ones.
James was an amazing father and husband.
Our thoughts are with his family at this sad time.
James, our friend who was interested in all things memory.
Now, all we have are memories of him.
My memories of James make me smile and sometimes even laugh out loud.
I will do everything I can to keep those memories alive and unaltered.
Will that be possible?
I truly hope so but, if not, the gist of them should be enough to brighten up the gloomiest days.
James was someone to go to.
Sometimes I simply went to his office to tell him that I was bored and was hoping for some distraction, and rather than throwing me out, he kindly engaged in a chat about music or research.
I guess it must have been on one of these occasions that we discovered we both could juggle and ended up juggling three balls each and passing them between us (his office was one of the larger ones).
This reminds me also of some academic discussions we had (between ourselves, or in doctoral supervision team sessions, or at TARMACs – a term that James coined by the way) that felt like passing intellectual balls.
He had that joy and playfulness about him that is the hallmark of academic discovery (too often lost these days to research agendas and strategic ambitions).
I will miss his fearless curiosity and spirit.
Although I have only known James for a short time, he has shown me more kindness and has made me feel more welcome than many people I've known a lifetime.
I will always remember the day of my interview, when, in my nervousness, I made a silly joke right as I met James for the first time and felt utterly mortified of the first impression I must've left.
Instead of the horrified reaction I was expecting, he laughed and joked back with me, making me feel at ease.
I will always remember his great sense of humour, his caring and supportive personality, and the overall incredible man he was – he will be sorely missed.
James was very committed to the activities of the Forensic Centre and made sure he kept us on our toes.
For example, he made sure my weapons training and ability to respond like a ninja was up to scratch.
For the past 15 years, every incidental meeting we had en route to the staffroom, in the stairwell, heading into or exiting a meeting, involved a surreptitious assassination attempt via the use of increasingly obscure imaginary weapons ranging from hand grenades, daggers, semi-automatic weapons to poisoned darts (anyone who ever watched the BBC series Spaced will know exactly what was involved).
One rule of the game was that these assassination attempts had to be out of view of any others present so sometimes extreme contortions were involved – or pockets.
Additional points were scored at meetings.
To replicate an immersive counterterrorism simulation, when I phoned James in his office, he always answered his phone with "Bauer" and made the CTU phone sound (followers of 24 will recognise this) before promising to patch me through to Chloe.
James brought so much happiness and fun and kindness to us all.
His good humour drained away the dreary trudge through admin and bureaucracy and failure and rejection that is a core feature of so much of our academic work life.
In addition to that, he was a model of integrity and diligence from the way he managed private matters to the dedicated feedback he provided for students.
Even when things were challenging, he sought ways to fix it.
A few years ago when there was some negativity in the department, James declared the motto "If you're not trying to be part of the solution, then you're part of the problem" and immediately applied it to himself.
This was his approach – always striving to make things better for others in a way that was understated and effective.
Working with James, and being fortunate enough to be his friend, has been the best possible lesson in learning to be a better human being – I'm so sad it had to end
Even in this, the saddest of times, it is hard to remember James without something bringing a smile to your face.
face.
Everyone who knows James is aware that he had an incredible sense of humour and usually interactions with him involved laughter because of this.
He was great at impersonating people too – some more than others.
It is so tragic talking about him in the past tense and his love and humour will be deeply missed.
One touching memory I have of James was when we all went to Wellington for SARMAC 2005.
James had brought his slippers to the other side of the planet to aid his home-sickness.
I remember thinking how sweet that was of this seemingly rufty-tufty bearded Converse wearing man, and what a lucky girl Sue was.
On arriving for the first time, James sat me down and dredged up a coffee with the aplomb of a virtuoso long used to triumphing over the limits of the staff room cupboard.
He conversed informally with a great deal of humour, much self-deprecation, and breath-taking in the depth of his range of knowledge of academic subject and university life.
Little did I know that in this entertaining discussion across the department and University life we had completed my induction.
He departed long before I could come to appreciate his depth: I did observe a subtle man who had no wish to inflict pain or harm on anyone, always available and would go to any lengths to help.
I am very proud of the fact that over the years I taught James to speak in a convincing ‘fake’ Irish accent.
For practice we would swear and insult each other whenever we met in the corridor.
We tried to rein this in when he became Head of Department but unsuccessfully, much to the bemusement of onlookers.
I can still hear his voice in the corridor……Jaysus, the cut of ya…
On a more serious note, I did not realise how much I felt cared for in my work place until he was gone.
We were all blessed to have a colleague and friend like James and there is now a James-sized hole in our hearts.
I first knew James as a peer mentor, introducing me to how to run a tutorial group.
I could immediately see the students responding to James' style: combining passion for psychology with warm humour and pastoral care.
To me he has always been a great model of a good leader – in any context or field of life.
Dedicated yet always respectful and empowering, with integrity and generosity.
He inspired cooperation.
You wanted to join him.
I was proud to call him our Head and saw him as far more than a colleague; a friend and guide, like an older brother.
Dr James Ost made Science cool!
He was a good friend, amazing colleague, and all round great guy.
He meant so much to so many people and will forever be in our hearts.
James and I shared the same birthday so I will always have an extra big drink for him on our birthday from now on (as he always reminded me...
all the best people are born on the 6 August).
I will remember James most as my music mentor.
He introduced me to music types I never had listened to before (experimental/post/art rock) and I have explored listening to that type of music ever since.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/quantum-science-and-technology-hub:
Studying quantum science and developing novel quantum technologies
The first quantum revolution brought a completely new understanding of the physics behind everything we observe and the nature itself of our universe.
Phenomena like quantum superposition (the ability of a particle to be in two states at the same time), entanglement between two particles (the ability to instantaneously change the state of one particle by measuring its entangled counterpart, even at large distances) and quantum interference (in which particles interfere as waves) have been puzzling scientists around the world ever since – including Einstein.
With the advent of the second quantum revolution, these counterintuitive quantum phenomena have continued to trigger a global development of quantum technologies, with the capability of providing strategic benefits to the security, health and wellbeing of our society.
There's a rising global demand for faster computing power, more secure communication protocols, and high-precision metrological schemes for use in medical, environmental, and engineering settings, and this is stimulating a parallel demand for highly-skilled, knowledgable and capable quantum scientists, engineers, and AI, computing and biomedical experts.
And it's this need – along with the necessity to find industrial partners to take the growing quantum technological revolution forward – which has led to the creation of the Quantum Science and Technology Hub (QSTH), under the direction of Dr.
Vincenzo Tamma .
The QSTH connects the University's core quantum science and technology staff with experts in related departments across the University – such as artificial intelligence (AI), biomedical engineering, medicine, computing, environmental science and gravitation – and with external collaborators on four continents.
Through the QSTH, we're working to achieve a deeper understanding of quantum science, to develop novel quantum technologies, and to boost the industrial use of quantum technologies at the crossover between different disciplines.
The QSTH aligns with the UK National quantum strategy and responds to the predicted further growth of the worldwide quantum technology market ($53.2B investment predicted by 2028).
The work of the centre also engages with the University's overall Strategy and with four of the University's Research Themes – Future & Emerging Technologies ; Health & Wellbeing ; Security & Risk ; and Sustainability & Environment .
The QSTH contributes to the UK Quantum Landscape and aligns with the UK Government's Industrial Strategy – in which Quantum Technology plays a major role – and responds to the predicted growth of the worldwide quantum technology market ($13.3B investment predicted by 2023).
The work of the QSTH overlaps with many of the University's research areas of expertise – including the two areas listed below within our Physics research.
The QSTH has also contributed to our excellent Research Excellence Framework 2021 results for Physics:
We were ranked top among modern UK universities and 6th among all UK universities for Physics.
With a network of international collaborations across four continents, the QSTH has established the University of Portsmouth as a centre of excellence in quantum science and technology.
Our research in quantum science and technology was recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent in the REF2021 Research Excellence Framework .
The work of the QSTH overlaps with many of the University's research areas of expertise – including Quantum Optics and Quantum Foundations and Quantum Information and Sensing Technologies – and with our overall Physics research .
Prospective PhD students are welcome to contact QSTH anytime and to look at projects advertised in our Physics postgraduate research pages .
Further schemes available for post-doctoral prospective applicants keen to join the QSTH – including Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, EU Marie Curie Fellowships.
We're also very keen to welcome anytime at our QSTH visiting scientist interested in joint collaborations.
The QSTH has secured funding for quantum sensing technologies from the US Department of Defence and from industry (Xairos) and is also currently engaging with UK funding agencies and institutions.
We have links with a range of business and organisations in industry, and with other government and academic institutions, including:
We're conducting research into new quantum technologies, including applications for high-precision measurements, computing, and secure communication.
Our work in this area is studying the particle-like properties of photons, and wave-like behaviour of massive objects, such as electrons and atoms.
Prof.
Vincenzo Tamma , University of Portsmouth, PO1 3QL vincenzo.tamma@port.ac.uk | +442392 842452

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/revolution-plastics-institute:
Supporting the transition to a sustainable plastics future
Photo by James Wakibia
Radical action is needed to stop the damaging impacts of plastic pollution on health and the environment.
There’s no time to waste.
Our researchers are helping to build a world that’s more sustainable.
We’re analysing plastics policy worldwide.
P ioneering the use of arts-based research methods to address plastic pollution.
Engineering enzymes to break down plastic faster.
Developing new, sustainable materials.
Working to transform the potential of plastic recycling and reuse.
And furthering the world’s understanding of how microplastics affect us all.
Use the links below to jump to different sections of the page:
Revolution Plastics Institute
Dr Noorin Khamisani
I think that what's really sad is that the state of our planet right now is that it is drowning under the plastic waste.
Dr Cressida Bowyer
Whether it's macroplastics, microplastics or nanoplastics, we now find these plastics everywhere on the planet.
Prof Steve Fletcher
From the top of the tallest mountain to the bottom of the deepest ocean.
Prof Alex Ford
We're seeing it washing up on our shores all around us as we speak.
We also find them in our bodies.
It's out of control.
The environmental and ecological challenges we're facing are that plastics are interfering with healthy functioning of ecosystems.
We have got a chemical crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis.
The Revolution Plastics Institute has a really strong mission driven research agenda to tackle the negative effects of plastic pollution across the entire plastics lifecycle.
Prof Fay Conceiro
Collaboration within our group in the University of Portsmouth is absolutely essential to finding how to deal with the problem of plastics.
We need to be able to live sustainably.
And to do that, you need to have those people that understand the different components of how society works.
We can have all the scientific and economic and social evidence we need, but ultimately it's about changing policy to actually make a difference.
Hugo Lynch
Industry is not aware about what the chemical composition of their plastics is, what happens when it breaks down and what the effect of that is when it's made into something else.
Researchers leading the direction in terms of gathering knowledge and sharing recommendations is the only way we're going to move the dial.
Noga Levy-Rapoport
The research has an incredibly important role to offer.
We know that political education, when packaged publicly in an accessible way, can totally transform the way that people envision a sustainable future.
Portsmouth as a case study site is a very interesting place because it's an island city.
It is a mesocosm of what's going on around the UK and what's going on around the globe.
Portsmouth is the perfect place to host the Revolution Plastics Institute because Portsmouth as a city exhibits all of the challenges we face when trying to tackle the global plastics crisis.
So we can test out solutions and ideas here that we can apply elsewhere and hopefully scale up to make a real difference.
If you have hundreds, thousands of people collecting data, you can really build up a good picture of what's happening in our environment.
The goal of the Revolution Plastics Institute is to bring people with us on a journey, whether you're in government.
in the private sector, in a campaign group or a member of the public.
We've all got a role to play in tackling the global plastics crisis, and that's what our institute will do.
Prof Andy Pickford
We are accumulating vast amounts of plastic waste.
Nigel Salter
We've produced more plastic in the last ten years than in the previous 100 years.
We're currently producing 400 million tonnes of plastic waste per year.
That's set to double by 2040.
And of that plastic waste, only 9% is being recycled.
We need to be challenging the status quo and we need to transform the way that we work with plastics.
Our plastic waste is an enormous symptom of our addiction to fossil fuels.
This has resulted in a very difficult state for our planet, but crucially, it's resulted in a lot of people feeling like they can't see a way out, a way to live without plastic.
The abnormal has become completely normal, and people can't actually remember a time when these plastic mountains weren't present.
Nelmo Munyiri
It’s very important that everyone takes action right now, and not tomorrow and not the day after.
Not after a year, or after ten years.
We need that action right now.
The Revolution Plastics Institute is putting research into practice, addressing plastics pollution and generating a globally-relevant community of plastics researchers.
The primary purpose of the Institute is to urgently confront the global plastics crisis through inclusive, solutions-focused research and innovation to support the transition to a sustainable plastics future.
We see a critical space for the University as an independent, objective evidence provider at the interface of government, businesses, citizens, and researchers.
The projects we’re working on span across all disciplines combining creativity, research and innovation to address the impact of plastic and achieve sustainability across all aspects of society, politics and the economy.
We’re already making progress.
We’ve engineered an enzyme that can break down one of the most polluting plastics; worked with communities in the global south to co-develop solutions to pollution; and studied how microplastics affect our oceans , economy and the air we breathe .
Right now, we’re helping to shape a global agreement to end plastic pollution , examining the effectiveness of existing plastic policies , and working with national governments to support their action on plastic pollution.
Lead: Professor Fay Couceiro
Lead: Dr Antaya March
Lead: Professor Andy Pickford
In March 2022, a landmark resolution was reached at the United Nations Environment Assembly to develop an international legally binding instrument to end plastic pollution (the ‘global plastics treaty’).
The Treaty could transform the way we resource, produce, use and dispose of plastics.
The Treaty negotiations so far have been slow, hindered by strong disagreements between countries.
The latest round in August 2025 ended without an agreement and no date or location has been set for talks to resume.
Our research is supporting the ongoing international negotiations for the Global Plastics Treaty by supplying policy briefs and scientific guidance to negotiators and decision makers.
March, A., Evans, T.
20 Jun 2025, In: Cambridge Prisms: Plastics.
3, 4p., e15
Chilote, M.
O., Dhakal, H.
18 Jun 2025, In: Environments.
12, 6, 20p., 209
Obanya, H.
E., Couceiro, F., Ford, A.
T., Cabada-Blanco, F.
12 Jun 2025, In: Aquatic Toxicology.
286, 10p., 107457
Jones, D.
M., Potts, J., Hale, M.
24 May 2025, In: Journal of Coastal Conservation.
29, 3, 12p., 27
Murphy, N., Dempsey, S., DesVeaux, J., Uekert, T., Chang, A., Mailaram, S., Alherech, M., Alt, H., Ramirez, K., Norton-Baker, B., Bell, E., Singer, C., Pickford, A., McGeehan, J., Sobkowicz, M., Beckham, G.
6 May 2025, In: Nature Chemical Engineering.
Our work is making a difference.
The projects we’re working on span across all disciplines combining creativity, research and innovation to address the impact of plastic and achieve sustainability across all aspects of society, the economy and politics
In collaboration with GB Row, we're undertaking a detailed survey of microplastics, e-DNA and noise pollution around Great Britain’s waters
This project used street art, theatre and song and circular economy approaches to reduce open dumping and burning of waste and to increase plastic recycling in KwaMhlanga, Mpumalanga, South Africa.
The MicroSEAP project seeks to understand the impact plastic pollution has on marine ecosystems in South East Asia and find solutions to the problem.
The world’s first programme of city-wide plastic pollution surveys using a citizen science-based approach.
A project to establish a boat building training centre to teach local boat builders and students how to design and construct recycled sailing vessels and other products combining indigenous knowledge with modern innovation.
4 August 2025
28 July 2025
3 July 2025
16 April 2025
The Revolution Plastics Institute is led by Professor Steve Fletcher and Dr Cressida Bowyer.
Our mission is guided by the expertise of our Advisory Council , composed of senior executives from organisations and sectors that play a role in plastics and sustainability.
Theme Professor (Environment and Sustainability)
Steve.Fletcher@port.ac.uk
Professor of Environmental Pollution
Fay.Couceiro@port.ac.uk
Research Fellow
Antaya.March@port.ac.uk
Professor of Molecular Biophysics
Andy.Pickford@port.ac.uk
Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Hom.Dhakal@port.ac.uk
Keiron.Roberts@port.ac.uk
Tegan.Evans@port.ac.uk
Revolution Plastics Institute RB 1.10, Richmond Building Portland St Portsmouth PO1 3DE
Email: revolutionplastics@port.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 23 9284 6240
Interested journalists can contact the University's Media and Communications team .
Follow the Revolution Plastics Institute on LinkedIn .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/portsmouth-centre-for-advanced-materials-and-manufacturing:
An international hub for advanced materials: design, development, manufacturing, testing and characterisation
Our mission is to advance fundamental and applied research in Materials Science and Engineering Technology.
We focus on using nature’s finite resources responsibly as we develop materials, and make contributions towards achieving UN’s sustainable development goals (SDGs).
Building on our research in materials and manufacturing, and on collaborations with many industry and academic partners, we established the centre in 2024.
Materials we work on include ceramics, woods, metals and alloys, composites (conventional/synthetic, sustainable/natural/bio-composites, lightweight & hybrid composites), polymers processing (thermosets and thermoplastics), sustainable plastics.
Through investment in our materials and manufacturing laboratory infrastructure, we're able to follow our interests in leading research areas including analysis, characterisation, formulation, manufacturing, design, modelling, rapid prototyping, 3-D printing, testing, repair, structural integrity evaluation, applications and knowledge transfer of advanced materials and manufacturing.
Thank you for your interest in the ongoing work of  the Portsmouth Centre for Advanced Materials and Manufacturing (PCAMM).
We're a multidisciplinary centre where a consortium of academics, researchers and industrialists work together to create new optimised future materials for used in many sectors, including aerospace, automotive, energy, construction, packaging and electrical electronic applications.
Billions of barrels of oil.
Commuters in smog masks.
Heavy metals leaching into the soil.
It’s all too easy to picture these things when we think about what transport does to the environment for example.
To protect the planet, we must find ways of making materials and processes more sustainable.
PCAMM focuses on applied research into various areas (such as tension, compression, bending, impact, torsion, buckling, fatigue, fracture, thermal, vibration damping, among others) of materials and components aiming at commercialising research and innovation results.
With 77% of our research rated world-leading or internationally excellent for impact, our research will directly impact our courses from undergraduate, Masters and PhDs.
Our key thematic areas are:
In this area, we use our advanced facilities to investigate and analyse materials for use in industries from packaging and construction to automotive and space engineering.
Looking at polymers, composites and metals, we have expertise in applying tests including thermal analysis, fracture toughness, 3-point bending and fatigue.
In this area, we explore the design and manufacture of the next generation of materials, and the development of products that use them.
We're working with conventional manufacturing techniques, additive manufacturing, and the use of AI to make optimal use of biocomposites, ceramics, woods, metals and super alloys.
We use a wide range of characterisation techniques in this area to understand the properties of materials before and after machining.
Our research covers microstructures, failure behaviour, and the use of methods such as optical microscopy, nanoindentation and SEM to understand the effects of defects in materials.
In this area, we use CAD/CAM, multiscale modelling and numerical methods to investigate materials including polymers, composites, alloys and biomaterials.
Through structural health monitoring (SHM) we explore the behaviours and properties of materials, allowing us to predict cutting forces and damage behaviour.
In this area, we use conventional and nonconventional machining including, drilling, milling, laser drilling, wire EDM and abrasive water jet machining.
We apply these methods to metals, polymer-based and bio-based composites and hybrid materials under various conditions, including cryogenic situations.
In these areas, we work holistically with industry and with research partners, integrating our expertise with our collaborators.
We also work with internationally recognised scholars, our own postgraduate students, and deliver teaching expertise in leading research areas to students in the University's Faculty of Technology.
Our centre has well-equipped laboratories with a wide range of the-state-of-the-art facilities for R&D in advanced materials and manufacturing.
We undertake medium-to-long-term research and knowledge transfer projects, as well as short-term consultancy works.
We have strong expertise in the areas of:
If you have a research question or a design project that could benefit from our capabilities, please get in touch with Professor Hom Dhakal to discuss ways we could work together.
Weston, B.
T., Sweetman, S.
C., Kean, J., Wood, C., Martill, D.
M., Smith, R.
9 Jul 2025, In: Proceedings of the Geologists' Association, 13p., 101128
Rai, A., Triggiani, D., Facchi, P., Tamma, V.
5 Jun 2025, In: Physical Review A.
111, 13p., 062408
Ahmad, F., Shabbir, A., Alanazi, S.
A., Shabbir, M., Junaid, K., Andrikopoulou, E.
15 May 2025,
Antigoni.Barouni@port.ac.uk
Luka.Celent@port.ac.uk
Mariana.Dotcheva@port.ac.uk
Krassimir.Dotchev@port.ac.uk
Khaled.Giasin@port.ac.uk
Jason.Knight@port.ac.uk
Michel.Leseure@port.ac.uk
Dora.Mavridou@port.ac.uk
Petko.Petkov@port.ac.uk
Khurram.Rehmani@port.ac.uk
Abu.Saifullah@port.ac.uk
KTP Associate in Bio-based Electronic Materials
Erdem.Selver@port.ac.uk
Jurgita.Zekonyte@port.ac.uk
Zhongyi.Zhang@port.ac.uk
For more information, contact Professor Hom Dhakal, Director of PCAMM.
hom.dhakal@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-groups-and-centres/centre-for-environmental-and-renewable-energy-solutions:
Working in partnership to make a difference
The Centre for Environmental and Renewable Energy Solutions (CERES) stands at the forefront of addressing critical challenges in environmental sustainability and renewable energy.
Established as a beacon of innovation, CERES is dedicated to pioneering research and finding solutions that significantly impact both local and global environmental challenges.
We've built a strong collaborative network, teaming up with partners from both the industry and the public sector.
Below are just some of the organisations we've recently worked with:
Students and researchers address sustainable power and decarbonisation issues with modelling software and physical equipment in our Renewable Energy Laboratory.
Explore how to transmit radio waves, build circuit boards and analyse high-frequency signals at our Telecommunications Laboratories.
Our Power Electronics Laboratory supports learning in the field of electrical & power engineering, enabling students to study the impact of electrical loads.
The Hydraulics Laboratory helps civil engineering students investigate all aspects of open channel flow; from flow over weirs to hydraulic jumps.
This lab hosts all the facilities you need to conduct simple water tests for biochemical oxygen demand to suspended solids, nutrient analysis, pH and conductivity.
Conduct tests and analyse samples currently in the ecosystem in a fully-operational waterworks in nearby Petersfield complete with microbiology and environmental chemistry labs.
Sustainable Energy and Air Quality Improvement for Coastal Harbours to Achieve Net-zero with Grid Enhancements
The SEA CHANGE project will design, build and operate a ‘shore power’ system across the three busiest berths at Portsmouth International Port.
This will allow visiting ferry or cruise ships to turn off their engines when in the port, as they will be able to ‘plug-in’ and use green electricity to run their onboard systems.
SHAPE UK: Shipping, Hydrogen & Port Ecosystems UK (SHAPE UK)
In this project, we use systems engineering in collaboration with industry to demonstrate and assess the role of alternative fuels in ports for decarbonisation.
Connecting Innovation for Clean Growth (CGUK)
This is a pioneering university-led business network that helps members get innovative ideas to market faster.
A one-stop-shop for clean innovation.
Smart Local Energy Systems: Concepts and Designs
By taking a systems approach to energy provision, we're working in collaboration with industry to design a local energy framework for the Isle of Wight.
Innovation Hub: Southern Water
Technology moves fast and we're staying ahead of the curve by trialling new technologies to protect the environment in this project.
We've established an Innovation Hub, a suite of laboratories, and offices on the site of the Southern Water Petersfield treatment works.
View all projects
A UK water company implemented new treatment technologies and site models, enhancing wastewater treatment performance while reducing costs and improving environmental protection.
This upgrade not only stimulated the commercial growth of SMEs through improved sewage treatment plants but also informed policy on blue-green water management systems, benefiting both the environment and industrial collaborators.
Additionally, soil washing technology was developed to remediate hydrocarbons at industrial sites.
CERES colleagues have equipped industry with enhanced theoretical understanding and modelling capabilities that have provided significant economic benefit by decreasing the overall development cost of manufacturing battery modules for electric vehicles (EVs).
Our work has contributed to the increased use of EVs by improving the commercial viability of lithium-ion battery packs, which make up 40% of the vehicle's cost.
These batteries last longer, are safer, recharge faster, and can be driven further between charges – contributing to policies to ban the sale of combustion engines across large portions of the world and societal goals to reduce CO2, NOx and particulate emissions.
We established a clean-tech cluster in 2015, following regional funding from the UK government.
This led to the formation of Clean Growth UK , a pioneering university-led business network that helps members gain innovative ideas to market faster.
Seymour, V., Cárdenas, B., Urquhart, A., Pottie, D., Day, J., de Oliveira Júnior, M., Barbour, E., Wilson, G., Garvey, S., Jones, C.
1 Jun 2025, In: Technology in Society.
81, 12p., 102849
Jones, C.
R., Lee, R.
P., Kaklamanou, D.
6 Apr 2025, In: Technology in Society.
82, 16p., 102891
Seymour, V., Xenitidou, M., Timotijevic, L., Hodgkins, C.
E., Ratcliffe, E., Gatersleben, B., Gilbert, N., Jones, C.
3 Apr 2025, In: Behaviour & Information Technology.
44, No.
6: ECCE 2024, p.
1243-1259
Day, J., Donaldson, D.
L., Barbour, E., Cárdenas, B., Jones, C.
R., Urquhart, A.
J., Garvey, S.
D., Wilson, I.
G.
1 Dec 2024, In: Applied Energy.
376, Part B, 13p., 124242
View all publications
Mohammed.Ali@port.ac.uk
Peter.Cruddas@port.ac.uk
Anton.Hettiarachchige-don@port.ac.uk
View all news
View all blogs and podcasts
Renewable Energy Engineering BEng (Hons) / MEng
Energy and Power Systems Management MSc
Water and Environmental Engineering MSc
Postgraduate research in energy engineering
Postgraduate research in civil engineering

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/centre-of-excellence-in-defence-risk-and-resilience-cedrr:
Preparing for the emergency front line
Conflict and disasters afflict some of the most vulnerable populations on earth, and wreak havoc on societies.
Prevention, and timely and effective responses are necessary to save lives and preserve infrastructure, and to promote socio-economic recovery and build resilience.
Our research focuses on drivers of these risks, whilst our education activities prepare professionals and organisations to better respond and promote resilience, seeking solutions with governmental and non-governmental organisations, and with commercial and military collaborators.
The scale of disaster response frequently requires the coordination of military and civil expertise.
Within the synergistic fields of defence, risk and resilience the University of Portsmouth has a world class profile, with research expertise in key areas such as global governance, geopolitical conflicts, risk mapping and monitoring, peace, security and deterrence, AI and autonomy, ethics, risk management, disaster response, and organisational and community resilience.
CEDRR incorporates our expertise in these fields into one Centre of Excellence, providing a focal point, coordination, and an incubator for future initiatives.
CEDRR can offer:
Email: CEDRR@port.ac.uk
We have a long track record in providing relevant education services, we welcome applications from a variety of backgrounds, including those from the military, first responders and resilience practitioners.
We offer degrees, short courses and bespoke executive education, either on campus in discrete blocks of teaching, online at your convenience, or via distance learning or Learning at Work .
Many of our programmes are also accredited.
At Portsmouth, our students can receive academic credit for Recognised Prior Learning on most of our courses, including those serving and former services personnel .
RPL can be acquired in previous study, employment, voluntary work and training courses, reducing the total length of studies.
We are also an accredited MOD education provider accepting ELCAS credits which greatly reduce the cost to individual students.
Explore the impact our research is having on defence, risk and resilience.
From using satellite imagery to fight crime and using drones in disaster responses.
Fu, R., Yue, M., Jin, S., Frewer, L.
J.
1 Jul 2025, In: Journal of Rural Studies.
119, 13p., 103779
Gould, A.
M., Walsh, N.
P., Tipton, M.
J., Zurawlew, M.
J., Tayari, O., House, C., Delves, S.
K., Robson, S.
C., Shute, J.
J., Watts, J.
M., Roberts, A.
J., Rawcliffe, A.
J., Robinson, M.
R., Corbett, J.
23 Jun 2025, In: Experimental Physiology
Lomax, M., Ušaj, A., Kapus, J.
1 May 2025, In: The Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness.
65, 5, p.
625-631
Hope, L., Kontogianni, F., Thomas, W., De La Fuente Vilar, A.
28 Apr 2025, In: Scientific Reports.
15, 1, 12p., 14855
Woodford, M., Golcarenarenji, G.
17 Apr 2025,
Guiding readers to a greater understanding of autonomous vehicles, including those that operate in the air, on land, on the water, and underwater.
Creating a Trustworthy Robotic Autonomous Drone System to support Battlefield Casualty Triage.
A soil mapping project that informs environmental management and climate change mitigation in the British Virgin Islands.
Exploring the impact of Covid19 in developing countries and good practice guidelines for disaster risk reduction.
Developed the Virtual Control Room (VCR), a novel and robust system using AI that can provide a situational picture in the Arctic Ocean region.
Helping the the Arctic and North-Atlantic (ANA) region cope with security and safety threats as a result of increased commercial activity in the region.
A satellite enabled digital insurance ecosystem for small-hold farmers in Colombia.
Understanding Mental Health and Moral Injury in UK Military Chaplains.
Using satellite data to assist climate change resilience in Pacific Small Island Developing States.
Providing data and AI training to military and first responders.
Professor of Risk and Organisational Resilience
Sara.Hadleigh-Dunn@port.ac.uk
Associate Dean (Students)
Michelle.Juchau@port.ac.uk
Explore our courses in defence, risk and resilience.
Learn about crisis prevention, planning and management on this MSc degree course.
Graduates work in the emergency planning and disaster relief in the UK or overseas.
Learn how to guide organisations through critical situations in our full-time or part-time Master's course.
Understand how to identify, assess, and manage risks and threats.
Turn your practical leadership experience into an academic postgraduate qualification in 1 year, as you study management topics and target your studies to progress your career.
Start date: September 2025 January 2026 September 2026 January 2027
Study MSc Cyber Security and Forensic Information Technology at the University of Portsmouth.
If you're already working in security, or want to break into the field, this distance learning degree course gives you the skills to realise your potential.
Translate your management and leadership knowledge into practical skills and day-to-day behaviours with this postgraduate top-up course, as you build on your existing PgDip knowledge with a dissertation or work-based project.
Start date: September 2025 January 2026 May 2026 September 2026 January 2027 May 2027
Delivered through a bespoke combination of online material which includes, videos, podcasts and interactive packages and in-person teaching, the Portsmouth Military Education Team delivers Professional Military Education to the Royal Air Force as part of its second successive long-term contract with the RAF to design and deliver education packages.
Discover what we do
Matthew Powell
Dafydd Townley
25 October 2024
8 October 2021
View all blogs

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/future-of-law-innovation-and-technology-flite-research-centre:
Exploring the relationship between law, innovation and technology, and their impact on society's future
The FLITe research centre involves researchers and practitioners from the fields of intellectual property and emerging technologies law, innovation, sustainability, economics, artificial intelligence, data science and robotics.
Our core mission is knowledge transfer.
We help the people and organisations that we work with, as well as broader society, to better understand the relationship between law, innovation and technology, and to discover how best to use this understanding for commercial benefit and societal impact.
FLITe brings together a diverse and interconnected body of researchers from different faculties across the University of Portsmouth, as well as from other research intensive universities both in the UK and Europe.
Our members also include industry facing personnel from technology transfer offices, and patent attorneys and patent examiners from leading law firms and NGOs including the European Patent Office.
We aim to develop outputs in:
Ju, Z., Liu, H., Zhou, D.
01/03/2024 → 30/10/2026
Leonard, A., Middleton, K., Sekhon, J., Turnbull, S.
01/03/2024 → 01/09/2026
Bemmer, V., Callaghan, A., Cox, P., Cragg, S., Farrand, L., Lichtenstein, B., Pickford, A., Robson, S.
14/02/2024 → 13/02/2029
Zharikov, A.
5 Dec 2024, In: Transnational Dispute Management.
4, 15p.
Esmeli, R., Abdullahi, H., Bader-El-Den, M., Can, A.
1 Dec 2024, In: Decision Support Systems.
187, 11p., 114339
Pearce, H.
1 Nov 2024, In: Computer Law & Security Review .
55, 14p., 106052
Golcarenarenji, G., Khusainov, R., Gegov, A., Martinez-Alpiste, I.
Bai, D., Jiang, D., Jiang, G., Hao, Z., Zhou, D., Ju, Z.
1 Oct 2024, In: Measurement Science and Technology.
35, 10, 12p., 106131
Emeritus Professor/Academic Consultant (ZH-SS-Directorate)
jeremy.howells@port.ac.uk
To find out more about our work, contact our Research Centre Director Joe Sekhon on joe.sekhon@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/portsmouth-artificial-intelligence-and-data-science-centre:
Bringing together expertise in artificial Intelligence and data science
PAIDS (the Portsmouth AI and Data Science Centre) conducts cutting-edge research at the intersection of AI and Data Science, focusing on developing intelligent and adaptive systems.
We collaborate with industry partners, government agencies, and other academic institutions to ensure our research has real-world applications.
We are an interdisciplinary research group and we apply our skills in diverse fields, for example, when applied to Cyber Security our work includes AI-driven intrusion detection, adversarial machine learning, post-quantum cryptography, and privacy preserving AI - enhancing the security and resilience of critical infrastructures, enterprise networks, and cloud-based environments, ultimately contributing to safer digital ecosystems.
Mohamed Bader-El-Den
Stavros Shiaeles
Reyhaneh Shojaei
Gelayol Golcarenarenji
Bander Al-rimy
Fahad Ahmad
Rahim Taheri
Elisavet Andrikopoulou
Rich Boakes
Farzad Arabikhan
Ed Stoddard
Rinat Khusainov
Mo Adda
Aikaterini Kanta
Jim Briggs
Ivan Jordanov
Hamidreza Khaleghzadeh
Dongxu Gao
Janka Chlebikova
Alexander Gegov
James Burridge
Alaa Mohasseb
Sepehr Abrishami
Honghai Liu
Our research is exploring practical applications of AI and data science for solving business problems and societal challenges
We're e xploring solutions to emerging cyber security challenges and dealing with crime in the cyberspace
Our research is exploring the use of robotics and advanced sensor technologies for rehabilitation, diagnostics, and assisted living applications
Deploy machine learning techniques, grapple with the ethics of artificial intelligence, and study innovations in AI  development and applications to the world's needs.
Learn advanced technical and analytical skills to make sense of the vast amounts of data held by organisations today.
Graduates go into data strategist and researcher roles.
Learn the technical and analytical skills to make sense of the vast amounts of data available to organisations on this degree course.
You'll develop a deep understanding of modern big data, machine learning and data mining methods, preparing you for key roles such as data analyst, data scientist, systems developer and systems analyst.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/institute-of-the-earth-and-environment:
Our research focuses on integrated study of the Earth system, helping to solve environmental challenges
Our work generates and shares knowledge that deepens understanding of our planet, solving complex environmental and societal challenges.
Institute members undertake innovative and interdisciplinary research, inspiring the next generation of scientists and environmental leaders through education, training and outreach.
We collaborate with a wide range of academic, industrial, governmental, NGO and charity partners, on projects that range from local to global in scale
View all staff Research with us Facilities
Our institute is broad in scope and has a strong culture of collaboration and cross-disciplinary work.
Our work is supported by a wide-range of funders, and principally covers the following areas of expertise.
Explore our research in crustal evolution, tectonics, palaeontology, environmental change, and applied geoscience
Explore our research in environmental science, physical geography, engineering geology and natural and anthropogenic hazards.
Explore our research in sustainable development, disaster management, human geography and institutional governance.
Our members have leading roles in research centres across the University.
Explore the work of our centres, and learn more about recent projects, and our collaborations with academic and industrial partners.
25 June 2025
23 May 2025
22 May 2025
26 February 2025
21 March 2025
Natalia Przelomska
17 September 2024
Alex Ford
Environmental Chemistry Analysis Laboratory | University of Portsmouth
Mass Spectrometry & Laser Ablation Laboratory | University of Portsmouth
Electron Microscopy and Microanalysis Unit | University of Portsmouth
Institute of Marine Sciences | University of Portsmouth
Rock Mechanics Laboratory | University of Portsmouth
Remote Sensing & Spectroscopy Lab | University of Portsmouth | University of Portsmouth
Palaeontology and Advanced Microscopy Laboratories | University of Portsmouth
GIS & Remote Sensing Laboratory |University of Portsmouth
Geotechnics Laboratory | University of Portsmouth
Renewable Energy Lab | University of Portsmouth
Environmental Technology Laboratory | University of Portsmouth
Hydraulics Laboratory |University of Portsmouth
Environmental Technology Field Station | University of Portsmouth
Centre for Enzyme Innovation | University of Portsmouth
Microplastics research group | University of Portsmouth
Portsmouth Centre for Advanced Materials and Manufacturing | University of Portsmouth
Biophysics and Molecular Genetics Research Group | University of Portsmouth
European Xenopus Resource Centre (EXRC)| University of Portsmouth
Our world-leading researchers teach on a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses spanning Biological Sciences , Earth Sciences , Geography and Environmental Sciences , and Engineering .
We also offer Master of Research (MRes) and PhDs at the IEE - please visit our Research with Us page to find out more, including details of our current pre-approved funded and self-funded PhD projects.
We have a thriving and collaborative research environment, with clear focus on prioritising our people and fostering a supportive culture of research and innovation.
We strongly believe everyone has the right to work and study with dignity and respect, and are committed to widening participation in higher education and research.
As part of our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, the University of Portsmouth holds an Athena SWAN Silver Award for gender equality and a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award.
Initiatives such as these guide us in providing an honest assessment of our progress in building a positive and inclusive culture, and identify areas for continued improvement at IEE.
Professor of Earth and Planetary Materials
James.Darling@port.ac.uk
Institute of the Earth and Environment
Burnaby Building
Burnaby Road
Portsmouth, UK
PO1 3QL
Email: IEE@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/centre-for-integrated-health-and-wellbeing:
Our applied research focuses on improving health outcomes, reducing disparities, and enhancing well-being across the lifespan
Welcome to the Centre for Integrated Health and Wellbeing (CiH-Well), an international hub dedicated to advancing health outcomes, reducing disparities, and enhancing well-being across all stages of life.
Grounded in a multidisciplinary approach, our work spans chronic conditions, mental health, and public health, uniting expertise across academia, healthcare, and the public sector.
By combining innovative research with practical applications, we aim to deliver sustainable, impactful solutions that drive positive change locally, nationally, and globally.
Our commitment lies in driving positive change at local, national, and global levels, aligning directly with the University's ambitious Research and Innovation strategy.
At CiH-Well, we harness the collective power of diverse disciplines, including psychology, sports and exercise science, social care, healthcare, and digital technologies, to tackle complex health and well-being challenges.
Our established track record of securing significant funding from prestigious bodies such as UK research councils, Innovate UK, the EU, charitable foundations, and industry partners underscores our capacity for impactful and innovative research.
Our strength lies not only in the breadth of our scientific expertise and diverse methodological approaches, but also in the extensive research and Public and Patient Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) networks cultivated by our members.
By bringing these networks together, we aim to amplify their reach, providing crucial support for early-career researchers and fostering new collaborations.
Driven by a team of innovative and passionate individuals, CiH-Well has generated over £5.4 million in research funding in the past five years.
We are committed to building upon our success for future growth, increasing collaboration to lead impactful projects that truly make a difference in the lives of individuals and communities.
Director
Tim.Exell@port.ac.uk
Deputy Directors
Associate Professor in Clinical Exercise Physiology
Ant.Shepherd@port.ac.uk
Nuno.Tavares@port.ac.uk
School of Dental, Health and Care Professions
Daphne.Kaklamanou@port.ac.uk
Carolina.Machuca-Vargas@port.ac.uk
We work closely with colleagues in the following related research areas to deliver applied and integrated research into health outcomes and wellbeing.
The Clinical, Health and Rehabilitation Team (CHaRT) is dedicated to advancing applied research and consultancy aimed at supporting individuals of all ages in leading healthy and active lives.
We explore life experiences.
Our research includes empowering people with learning disabilities, exploring wellbeing, enhancing life in later years, and more.
Read more.
Experts in breast biomechanics working to improve scientific knowledge of breast health, inform the development of breast related products and raise awareness of this important aspect of women’s health.
We're researching how to better understand the body through biomechanics, x-ray imaging, in-situ mechanical testing, and high-performance computing.
We're focusing on two main areas of research – undergraduate education and pharmacy practice, including the evaluation of simulated clinical experiences, alternative methods of teaching, and the role of mentors and peer-assisted learning.
Our research covers the following areas of expertise.
We're exploring how to treat genetic disorders, identifying novel targets for drugs and searching for advances in treatments that could impact millions.
We're developing evidence-based health care for patients and the wider community, and higher-quality education for dental teams.
We're improving our understanding of how the body functions, how disease effects these functions, and the genetic and molecular drivers for illness.
Explore our pharmacy pharmacology and biomedical sciences research.
We're exploring topics from child development of social skills to eye witness testimony, and from the evolution of primate facial expressions to factors affecting drug use.
Explore our psychology research.
To speak to us about our research, please email: cih-well@port.ac.uk
Email now

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-institutes/policing-academic-centre-of-excellence:
The University of Portsmouth Policing Academic Centre of Excellence (UoP P-ACE) is a UKRI funded Centre in partnership with the National Police Chief’s Council for a period of three years from 1 October 2025.
The UoP P-ACE is focused upon enhancing its academic-policing partnerships through knowledge mobilisation, undertaking and embedding pioneering research and driving ongoing research capacity and the development of police science literacy.
The UoP P-ACE will create and consolidate evidence that directly addresses the strategic needs of policing, advance collaborative engagement with stakeholders by summarising and making accessible new and existing research evidence, and build research capacity and focus on the long-term educational development of policing professionals.
The UoP P-ACE programme of work will be co-produced by academics and policing practitioners and include policing futures forums, competitive programmes of research funding, digital platforms for knowledge sharing, research support hubs, educational training programmes, summer schools and public events.
Policing Areas of Research Interest
Diversity and representation; Trust, rapport and confidence; Cybercrime; Cybersecurity; Social engineering (e.g.
phishing); Internet of Things crime prevention; Economic crime (including fraud, corruption, money laundering, intellectual property crime and economic espionage); Missing persons; Extremism and radicalisation; Crime prevention; Vulnerabilities, safeguarding and victim support/rights; Violence against women and girls and online gender-based violence; Wildlife crime; Policing cultures; Police workforce; Biometrics; Facial recognition and eyewitness identification; Forensic accounting; Forensic science (including digital, archaeological, anthropological, entomological); Crime scene investigations; Human/system interactions; Forensic and Investigative interviewing; Intelligence gathering; Information elicitation; 3D imaging; Remote sensing; Artificial Intelligence (AI); Machine learning (ML); Ethics in AI/ML; Crime prediction tools.
The UoP P-ACE is governed by two Directors and a Centre Manager who will provide the intellectual leadership, strategic direction and financial oversight of the UoP P-ACE.
Together with our project partners, we will monitor the impact, value and effectiveness of the workstreams (see below) overseen by an appointed Steering Group of academic experts and  policing representatives.
Directors
Sarah.Charman@port.ac.uk
Interim Executive Dean
Paul1.Smith@port.ac.uk
We're working in collaboration with local, national and international police organisations to research the social, economic and political context in which policing operates.
The University of Portsmouth to become one of only nine centres of excellence for policing in the UK, following £4.5 million in funding from UKRI and the NPCC.
Qualify as a police officer on this degree.
Take advantage of our close ties to local constabularies and graduate ready to apply for work in the police service.
Start or level up your career on this Policing and Investigation degree course.
Study part-time around other commitments, anywhere that suits you.
For more information about work of the UoP P-ACE, please contact us at:
uop-pace@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/the-fight-against-the-ivory-trade:
An estimated 100 African elephants are killed each day by poachers seeking ivory.
Ivory is allowed to be sold in the UK as long as the elephant died prior to 1947.
The seller of ivory holds the responsibility of identifying where a piece of ivory originates from, an almost impossible task.
As long as newer ivory can pass for older pieces, there is still a market for more recently poached materials, and elephant populations will continue to reduce as poachers provide for this market.
After publishing a paper on ivory certification and trade, Caroline Cox responded to a UK Government consultation.
She recommended the introduction of an ‘ivory passport’ which would accompany an item forever, providing details of the item’s origin.
Cox then collaborated with a Cosmology PhD student to develop a machine learning algorithm to identify ivory being sold online as a material other than ivory which can be sold legally.
New ivory will no longer be sold in the legal market within the UK.
AI assisted identification of mislabelled ivory being sold online supports efforts to prosecute those illegally trading.
This in turn will reduce the demand for new ivory, limiting demand for poached materials and so supporting African elephant populations.
I've always loved wildlife.
Always.
And in 2005, my husband and I went to Southern Africa and had five days on safari in the Kruger.
0:18
It was wonderful.
We were out one day with our Ranger and the Ranger says, "Everybody stay very quiet." I was like, "Oh my goodness, what's going to happen next?" And almost imperceivably at first, you could feel the ground start to shake.
And over the hill came a herd of 26 elephants.
It was absolutely astounding and I don't think I've ever been so moved by a sight in all my life.
0:55
Wild elephant numbers have dropped by 62% over the last decade, and an estimated 100 African elephants are killed each day by poachers seeking ivory.
I was having dinner with my husband, Alister.
Alister is an antiques expert, he's an antiques valuer, and he was telling me about ivory that was coming to him that he felt was illegal to sell.
1:22
Ivory in the UK can be sold provided it came from an elephant that died before 1947.
And the question is, of course, how do you know when the elephant died?
The burden was on the seller to certify that the item they were selling was legal to sell and from looking at it, tell you whether it was pre or post 1947, and that is almost impossible to do.
That really started me thinking about how the law could be changed to protect elephants from poaching, because poaching in the southern African states is a massive problem still now.
2:04
My research, of course, started some time before the Ivory Act came into force and actually started to get some momentum.
2:11
On 6 October 2017, six months after Dr Caroline Cox's "Ivory Report" was published, the British Government launched a consultation into the sale of ivory in the UK.
2:23
In 2018, it was kind of like a light bulb moment for the Conservative government and they decided they were going to consult on the continuing trade in ivory in the UK.
2:36
I responded to the consultation process on behalf of the Ivory Project and I'm really pleased to say they listened to some of it, which was amazing.
2:45
There is now a type of ivory passport, which is what I'd recommended, to enable it to be sold, and that certificate stays with the item forever.
2:56
It means that we are going to see an end to at least in the real world, sale of ivory unless it's got a certificate anymore.
3:11
Do I think it will end poaching?
3:14
3:15
My fear is that ivory will stop being sold in auction rooms and it will stop being sold in antique shops and it will go online where the regulation is just not so tight.
3:29
I could go onto eBay right now and show you hundreds, literally hundreds of pieces of ivory being sold.
3:37
But it's not being sold being called ivory.
3:39
It will be ox bone, it will be bovine bone.
3:43
I realised very quickly that actually things were changing online and it wasn't so much about the buzz word as the photography.
3:53
So how was I going to manage to look through thousands of photos of bone and ivory and one by one try and pick which is which?
4:03
It's almost impossible.
4:04
I really needed some help to do that.
4:07
And at that point we met Simone.
4:10
Simone is in his final year of his Ph.D.
4:15
He's a cosmologist, but he knows an awful lot about machine learning.
4:21
Machine learning is a subfield of artificial intelligence in which the algorithm or the model tries to learn from the data.
4:30
The computer vision algorithm has exactly the same approach that is used in self-driving cars, in which the goal is then to differentiate between people, between trees, between traffic lights.
4:45
And we are trying to do the basically the same thing, but in a more, much more specific way, we are just trying to distinguish bones from ivory objects.
4:54
These are two example of the things that we are trying to distinguish.
4:57
So this is an ivory object while this is made of bones.
5:01
You will be able to tell the difference if you get very close, because in this object there are present the Schrager lies in the very bottom while here there are the signature of the blood vessels that are inside the bones, that are this black spot that you can see.
5:19
They look very similar so it's going to be very hard to distinguish them.
5:23
We have already proved that with some machine learning approach we would be able to distinguish with a certain level of accurracy between the two.
5:30
And this can be incredibly useful, for example, for a police officer because that will discriminate automatically which of the images that they are finding online we will need to prosecute.
5:42
With something very simple we can achieve very big results.
5:47
The Ivory Project has played a small but significant role in ending the sale of ivory in the United Kingdom.
5:56
And that's an amazing thing to be able to say.
5:59
I know that we haven't solved the problem worldwide.
6:04
I know there are still poachers out there, but I've stopped the trade in the UK and that makes me feel good.
6:12
I think our next steps are going to be developing Simone's machine learning tool, his algorithm, to really perfect this.
6:20
If we can get the machine learning point to where we're able to go to somebody like eBay and say, "This is the tool you guys need" and if they could take this on board, we could stop the trade in illegal ivory at an instant online.
6:37
That would be incredible.
6:41
There's something about elephants, isn't there?
6:43
We have hunted them, we've used their ivory for millennia.
6:47
So for me, they embody the ability to keep going in the face of adversity.
6:55
It's extraordinary.
6:56
And I just find there's something incredible about that.
6:59
They're moving!

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/computer-science-and-informatics-mobility-devices:
Children with disabilities often struggle with a lack of independence, finding themselves struggling to communicate or to control their own movement.
This can have a huge psychological and emotional impact on children who are cognitively able.
David Sanders and his team developed a system that mounts onto powered wheelchairs, allowing any wheelchair to become an intelligent powered mobility device.
The technology uses a Raspberry Pi computer which responds to vocal cues from the user, allowing them to independently control the movement of their wheelchair.
Over 2,000 children and young people with disabilities are experiencing a higher quality of life as they are able to control their own movement around their space and exercise an increased level of independence.
Healthcare costs have reduced as cheaper designs have been developed, such as reducing the costs of scanning collision avoidance.
Professional standards and practices have also changed in response to this innovation, as powered wheelchairs have become an option for a broader range of individuals.
Bertie is an incredible 8-year-old boy who loves Harry Potter, David Attenborough, he's really caring to his friends and his family and he has lots of complex needs.
Bertie is an amazing little chap.
He's very intelligent and one of the biggest things we're proud of, actually, Heritage is spotting what's in there and bringing it out.
0:30
For Bertie, the most difficult challenge he faces is his independence.
He has so many things done for him because of his physical, medical needs that we are always looking for different ways in which he can be independent.
Those who have undiscovered intelligence go through so much frustration and depression.
Once we have discovered that a young person is cognitively able and does have understanding, technology can play a huge part.
Any technology that can help us towards that independence and communication increases the happiness levels.
So far, we've built systems that mount themselves onto powered wheelchairs.
1:18
And the reality is kids and disabled people will tend to have wheelchairs that they are used to.
1:27
And so we're creating new platforms now where you can put any wheelchair onto a platform, and then that platform becomes the intelligent powered mobility device.
1:42
For Bertie, he's really always wanted to have more than one way of moving.
He's wants to be able to turn and move forwards, and with his restricted mobility, we haven't really found a way of doing that up until now.
With the project, with the University of Portsmouth, we've been able to use a Raspberry Pi computer, which stores Bertie's voice.
1:59
And it means that when Bertie Vocalises he's able to move the platform a certain distance.
2:03
That then will give him the option over time to be able to move forwards and turn using his head switch at the same time.
2:10
The system continuously listens to a specific frequency in Bertie's voice.
2:16
Once Bertie produces or generates that voice, the system can identify it and an intelligent programme can interpret it
2:21
into a driving command to operate the powered mobility platform.
2:31
The avoidance system works as it has two different modes where you can stop when an obstacle is detected or avoid which moves away from the obstacle if it's detected.
2:39
The systems benefit the user because they are intelligent systems and they continuously learn about the user's pattern,
about the driving ability and improve their driving experience.
2:50
When Bertie first used his voice on the platform, I was stood right next to him and he used and it turned towards me and made me jump.
3:01
Bertie thought it was very funny because he nearly ran over his teacher
3:04
and for me it was just really exciting seeing his eyes light up and him knowing that he had done that himself.
3:25
For me it's been very valuable being in partnership with an organisation that is on a similar wavelength.
3:31
It's coming up with something different.
3:34
In other words, having more minds on a problem can look at it from different angles and perspectives.
It's important for us to have partnerships because to make these things work and make them useful, we all the time have to be having people try them out.
3:48
The excitement when I last saw him driving with with his voice is just wonderful.
3:55
And it takes him so much effort to produce that vocalisation.
3:59
So you can tell how much he's loving it because he's really given it his all.
For me, to see the systems are being used is just great.
4:08
Just amazing.
4:09
You cannot put a price tag on that.
4:13
Children and young people with complex needs often present we've learned helplessness.
4:18
So learned helplessness is where a child or young person with complex needs switches off from their learning or from their lives
4:27
because so many things are done to them or done for them that they feel like they don't have a voice.
4:33
One of the things we try and focus on in this research is about ability rather than disability.
4:41
So we're looking at trying to enhance their lives by looking at what they can do and then expanding on that and enabling them to do more.
4:50
They're very unique, special people that have a spark of something that we're trying to capture, make use of.
4:58
And parts of my role, I feel, is to try to capture that spark and enable it for them.
5:03
We've got lots of creative ideas of where to take take this.
5:06
What we'd like to do is for the wheelchair system to be able to identify the children and then configure itself.
5:13
This could have global impacts for anyone with disabilities.
5:17
Bertie with the right tech, who knows how far we'll be able to take him.
It's really exciting to be part of this.
5:26
It gives me more knowledge and experience of what different technology can do that I can then implement with other children, young people across the foundation.
5:37
We've chosen to apply ourselves to this area because of that real change that we see in people, that real improvement in their quality of life
5:48
that might be possible as kids do things for the first time that they've just never been able to do before.
5:55
If you can enable more autonomy and choice-making, independence for disabled people, then we're proud to be part of helping that move forward.
6:09
I love engineering and I love research, but actually applying that in a meaningful way,
6:14
which has an impact on human beings and their lives and their quality of life, is very rewarding.
6:21
The project at the University of Portsmouth supports our ethos.
6:24
It will help change lives effectively.
6:27
It will help those young people that have very complex needs be able to be as independent as possible.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/english-language-and-literature-feminist-history:
The history of Portsmouth has long been dominated by the naval dockyard, commemorating the achievements of men, with the city considered “little touched by feminism”.
Laurel Forster and Sue Bruley carried out extensive research to uncover the feminist history of Portsmouth, other local feminist movements across the UK, and the implications and influences of women’s media.
By interviewing members of the local community, the pair connected individual life stories with general struggles faced by women living in naval cities, and broader concerns of the national Women’s Liberation Movement.
A series of public talks, training events, community centre visits and touring exhibitions took place sharing a feminist history of Portsmouth.
The project increased awareness of, and engagement with, women’s activism in Portsmouth and further afield for a diverse audience.
It has also increased awareness of ethnic diversity across Portsmouth, acknowledging the scope and significance of the contributions of women from diverse backgrounds.
The work carried out has enhanced skills and dialogue in gathering women’s narratives, encouraging intergenerational dialogue and reflection.
This has also augmented women’s self-esteem and social acknowledgement, as the sharing and capturing of stories of women’s activism has reflected the significance of individuals’ contributions.
0:04
Portsmouth is a very famous naval city and has a huge dockyard as well.
And both of those combined have always meant that the history of Portsmouth is predominantly a masculine history.
The main focus of the project was to capture those oral histories,
those testimonials, those life stories from different women across the city before they forgot.
I served in the Royal Navy for 34 years.
The Women's Royal Naval Service was a separate service to the Royal Navy,
and I went through for officer in 1985 and still at that time the Wrens was very much a shore based service.
I was a counsellor here for 18 years.
0:53
I would walk into a room and maybe somebody would be coming into the room to talk to the counsellors and then walk in and say, Don't send a child.
It's because I had a ponytail and I was young.
I was one of a small group of women who helped to set up the Portsmouth Women's Aid Refuge.
We were looking for a place of safety for women who experienced violence in the home.
1:16
The initial thing, of course, was to find a house.
1:20
I phoned the council.
Three properties here in 1930s were really, really poor and not enough properties.
There was huge frustration.
You know, we were circumscribed.
We couldn't take decisions.
We didn't have any money.
1:36
When I arrived at Portsmouth, I would get involved in community voluntary activities and tackling the authorities.
1:44
It was very, very difficult.
1:46
Male dominated council and who didn't want anything to do with women in any position.
We got this sense that the, you know, the suspicion would be that we were all very well-meaning and probably quite energetic and enthusiastic,
but actually we probably didn't know what we were doing.
2:05
I became the chair of Posent Multicultural Group and although I made the leader of the council, etc., etc.
2:13
No one took any notice of me.
And so it was a battle.
2:17
You felt as though you weren't quite taken that seriously.
So you changed.
I think that's how I developed a deeper voice.
2:27
There were a lot of challenges when women first went to see.
There was still a lot of resentment at that time.
2:33
There was an awful lot of aurorae in the press, and it wasn't very polite.
2:37
We had the wives marching in Portsmouth against women going to sea and stealing their husbands,
2:44
and that we shouldn't have women on board their husband's warships.
2:48
So that was quite challenging.
2:52
Researchers at Portsmouth have done some great work on Portsmouth as a naval town, but mostly that focuses on men.
3:02
And women have worked hard to make the city what it is and to stand up for their rights to improve conditions within the city.
3:13
Sue Bruley and I are both academics studying feminism for a very long time.
3:18
We invited women into the university, women from all walks of life, women who had worked for the city, worked for their communities in different ways,
really, to tell their stories, to give their testimonials, to talk about their activism.
3:36
What had they done for the city?
3:40
I was interested in particular issues like housing issues, not just repairs, but trying to get new properties.
And one of the reasons is because people were continually wanting out of Portsea and we didn't want people to keep moving.
3:54
We wanted people to stay.
3:57
So the way to get that was to improve the properties and get more properties.
So there were a number of women involved in the group.
At the same time, the council were knocking down old houses.
4:11
Some of the women said, Why are they knocking those houses down?
4:14
We could we could get them done up.
4:16
You know, there would be more houses for us to live in.
4:19
So one of the issues was to try and stop the demolition.
4:23
So they went up and they stood in front of the bulldozers.
4:26
My fellow counsellor.
She was knocked through a window.
A number of the women were arrested and put in the cells.
4:34
I was sitting there taking all the numbers as who to phone, what grounds to phone, which husbands to tell, and how to take care of everything.
4:43
Your confidence comes by wanting to to do something, wanting to change it, and also having others around you that want the same thing.
4:53
We were the first women's aid in the country to produce its annual report.
It was a professional piece of work and I think almost more than any other single thing.
This document reassured people that we perhaps could be trusted with this relatively small amount of money,
5:10
without these men kind of tossing around to see if we were doing the right thing.
One of the most helpful people on the project was Marie Costa, because at first, I think she was quite hesitant to come into the university,
5:25
and I think she thought that Sue and I might be two stuffy academics, not really interested in people beyond the academe.
5:34
When I first heard the project, I thought it wasn't for me.
Most of the people there were all Caucasian and I was the odd one out.
5:45
Laurel said
"We want women who come from diverse backgrounds."
5:50
"We want everybody included."
5:52
So it's not just about white women.
5:54
That history is missing in Portsmouth, and I need to to fill that gap.
6:00
So I felt that.
6:02
This is my role in it.
I've got to and I have a voice now and I need to speak up for everybody who can't be there.
By going in regularly, I found I could ask questions and contribute something or even challenge something, and I think that was a turning point for me.
Portsmouth is a very diverse and multicultural city, and we wanted to reach as many different communities as we could.
We managed to get to a group of Chinese women and we managed to get to Bangladeshi communities.
6:44
Marie helped us with all of that.
6:50
For me, collaboration and research is absolutely vital.
So that's why I got involved.
6:58
And I'm really glad I did because, of course, I've met other women now and made new connections, which of course be useful for new campaigns.
7:07
It's important to understand that no city is just about men.
7:13
It's really important to demonstrate women's activism and the significance of feminism to their lives.
7:21
And it's really important to capture this history before it disappears.
7:26
A lot of it is just sitting up here.
7:28
It's memories that we have and memories that you've left behind because things have moved on.
7:34
And if you don't capture them, then they're just going to sort of just be an amorphous mass in the background of history,
7:42
without anybody really sort of recognising that this was an incredibly amazing period of change.
7:48
And I think it's just really important to recognise that it's, you know, it's not always been that way,
7:54
and people have had to work hard so that you can be where you are today.
8:06
There's masses of documentation about how men lived and what they achieved in Portsmouth and very little about women.
8:16
It's important to redress that balance.
8:19
My mother died when I was two.
8:22
I'd love to have known what she did for a living.
8:24
There is absolutely no official record of what my mother and I'm only talking now one or two generations back.
8:31
That's why something like this is so important.
8:35
Feminism isn't just about what happened on the marches in the streets of London,
8:40
but it's also what happened in our local city, and in this case in Portsmouth.
8:47
I think I felt that women were beginning to be heard and not just seen,
8:53
take up the mantle and fight their corner and want to be represented in the history of Portsmouth, because that's missing, still missing.
9:03
You don't have any statues of.
9:04
If there is, it's the odd one.
9:06
Even women in the forces are not seen anywhere or represented anywhere.
9:11
So it was good to see that women are saying, you know, we have done something.
9:18
We should be included in the history.
9:21
After years of being male dominated, we want to be heard and represented everywhere.
9:29
It was a very busy year trying to capture the stories of as many women as we could.
9:38
But I am immensely proud of the work that we did in that year, and we have achieved a fantastic archive forever.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/sport-and-exercise-science-water-safety:
Each year drowning accounts for around 320,000 deaths globally.
Many people do not know how to respond upon finding themselves suddenly in open water or struggling in water.
Mike Tipton and his team extensively researched the potentially fatal ‘cold shock’ response exhibited in sudden exposure to cold water, and the dangers of anxiety and threat appraisal in these situations, finding that anxiety increased the risk of cold water immersion.
The research determined that the actions taken before and during the initial minutes of immersion are critical to survival, leading to the development of a series of water safety measures, informing coordination of rescue efforts, and shaping national and international campaigns.
Over 100,000 children have received ‘Swim Safe’ training which advocates the safety measures proposed by Mike Tipton and his team.
The ‘float first’ technique is recommended by the UK Coastguard to 999 callers for maritime in-water incidents, as well as various national and international maritime and healthcare bodies.
The ‘Respect the Water’ campaign detailing crucial water safety advice reached millions of people across social media, print and broadcast media, a dedicated website, and YouTube.
This has resulted in an increased awareness and understanding of water safety and behaviour changes.
This in turn has saved lives, with some individuals explicitly stating knowledge gained from the campaign as the reason for their survival.
The international use of safety measures designed by the team at University of Portsmouth places this research as central to the rescue and survival of countless individuals.
Drowning is the second or third
most common cause of accidental death around
0:10
the globe.
We lose around about a thousand people
a day.
In the UK, it's a death about
every 20 hours, a child a week.
Nearly half of the deaths are people
under the age of 15.
That loss of a life, of
a potential, of a contribution to society.
That's the driver to try and help
people survive the experience
of going into cold water.
The background to this project
certainly started in '83 with my
PhD, which was in human responses to cold
water immersion and adaptation to cold.
And pretty much everything we've done
from there has made some contribution.
We work with lots of external organisations.
Over the years, the Royal National Lifeboat
Institution have supported
our research and have used our research a
lot.
We work with Surf Life Saving GB.
We work with the Coast Guard.
1:14
We work with the Fire and Rescue Service.
They cover what we do when we work with all
the groups -- the fantastic groups we work
with -- is from lab to lifesaving.
So we can produce the science, and
we can interpret that science, and then they
can take it and turn it into campaigns
like Float to Live.
You can probably trace everything that's
happened subsequently to people just before
they go into the water, people as they
go into the water and people five minutes
after they've been in the water.
When they go into water, it's impossible for
them to breath-hold.
They take a gasp, which is two to three
litres.
Just with that first, [INHALE],
you've crossed the lethal dose for drowning.
1:52
Now, once the skin gets down to water
temperature, which takes about a minute or
1:56
two, then that response
goes away.
And so, if you look now five
minutes into an immersion, you will see the
responses are much lower.
And so that led us to conclude that
2:06
the majority of these deaths that
2:08
are occurring in the first minutes of
immersion are due to cold shock.
If you can get through that phase, you've now got a much
better chance of surviving.
And what you've got to do to get through
2:18
that phase is float to live.
2:22
It's a great privilege and an honour to work
2:24
with these organisations with the common
2:26
purpose of saving lives at sea.
I was at a conference, it was called Coast
Safe, which is a collaboration between
2:35
various maritime organisations in Devon
and Cornwall, which actually came
2:40
about following a tragic incident in North Cornwall.
2:43
And Mike introduced
the concept of float to live.
From this, the emergency services that were
there, which was ambulance, police, fire,
2:53
coastguard, took the information
2:55
and came across a decision that we would
2:57
impart this data, this information
2:59
source, into our operations rooms so that
when we would get phone calls of people in
difficulty in the water if we could get a
3:06
message that person that was in the water to
3:08
lie back and float that they would
3:10
have a better chance of survival.
3:24
So the research from the University of
Portsmouth has been absolutely critical to
3:27
the success of the RNLI's Float to Live campaign.
Drowning numbers in the UK around the coast
3:33
have been in a gradual decline over the last
3:35
four to five years.
And whilst we can't attribute that fully
3:38
to the impact of the campaign, we would like
to think we are contributing to making
3:42
a difference there and to the point that we
3:44
have between 25 and 30 survivors
3:47
stories who have proactively contacted the
3:49
RNLI now to say that the float to live
3:51
advice has helped save their life.
And so, we would suggest that's probably the
tip of the iceberg of the really proactive
3:56
people that have actually come forward to
us.
So we're really proud of the impact that
this had and the fact that float to live is
4:01
now sort of universally accepted
in the UK as one of our national safety
4:05
messages, and it's talked about as part of
the Coast Guard script.
If someone calls in to say there's someone
drowning in the water to talk through what
to do.
It's been picked up by schools.
We know it's a lifesaver now, and hopefully,
it'll save many more lives in the future.
4:24
The research at the University and Professor
Mike Tipton and his team, because it is a
4:28
team, has really allowed me to understand
4:32
what are those things that I need to think
about and, more importantly, my 10,000
4:36
volunteers.
What do they need from me
4:39
in order for them to learn the knowledge
4:40
that has been gifted on behalf
of Mike Tipton and his colleagues
in order that our organisation and
4:47
organisations around the country and around
4:49
the world can use it to help keep people
4:52
safe?
And it's critical actually from the
science making it into reality.
Three words: Float to Live
4:59
will leave a huge legacy.
So the float technique is something that
5:12
has been developed by the University of
5:14
Portsmouth and Mike Tipton in cooperation
5:16
with ourselves, the RNLI.
5:18
The technique is very simple - it's almost
5:21
a star shape.
Legs out wide, arms
out wide and head back.
That gives you maximum surface area.
5:27
The buoyancy that happens to be in your
5:29
clothes will help you come to the surface of
5:31
the water.
Some people will find they'll
5:33
have to scale a little bit with their hands
5:35
in order to stay afloat.
5:36
Some people are naturally more buoyant.
5:38
And that position there just helps
5:40
you acclimatise to that cold water,
5:43
keeps your airway clear of the water
and helps you relax and work out what your
next move is, whether that's to call for
5:49
help or whether it's to swim to a safer place.
5:57
I would actually consider myself to be quite
safety conscious.
6:01
The only problem was it was dependent on me
6:03
being attached to my surfboard.
6:05
I think it was probably the first wave of
6:06
the next set I came off
my board.
I realised quite quickly that the
6:11
leash had broken.
Wave after wave after wave was just
smashing on top of me,
6:17
and I just thought, This is it.
6:22
About three or four days prior
6:25
to going out surfing on my own,
I had asked an RNLI lifeguard,
6:30
what's the best thing to do if my leash
6:32
breaks?
The advice that they'd given about
6:34
float on your back relax,
that all came flooding back to me
6:39
immediately.
6:40
I mean, in my mind, that was the only way I
6:42
was going to survive.
The way I feel about the sea has completely
6:49
changed.
The key message
6:51
is you do have it within
6:54
your power to relax and
have some control over that situation with
that float to live information.
7:09
Education is a really critical
7:12
component feeding into preventative
7:15
medicine.
So if people know
7:17
what's going to happen to them when they go
7:19
in the water, they tend to deal with
7:22
it better -- we've done studies that prove
7:23
that.
If they know how to behave and you
teach them how to behave, then survivability
just goes up off the scale.
7:31
So we're running a session this afternoon
7:33
with St Agnes Surf Lifesaving Club, a group
7:35
of their nippers, their younger members are
7:37
going to be down here, and we're going to be
7:38
showing them the float to live technique and how they do it.
Eventually, these young children, seven
7:44
or eight years old as they are now, will be
7:46
the 16, 17, 18-year-olds that
we at the RNLI will be recruiting to be
7:51
lifeguards that will, in turn, will be
7:52
keeping us safe when we visit the beaches.
7:57
So my hope for the future around the
7:59
campaign and the work in general for water
8:01
safety is that we carry on having an impact,
8:03
and it's really brought it home to me the
8:05
last couple of years that we have made a
8:07
difference in real people's lives.
8:09
The crucial thing is having the University
8:11
of Portsmouth as part of that research that
8:13
is the flagstone of everything we're all
doing here in doing drowning prevention.
8:18
We all need to work together, and it's that
8:20
interoperability, which is really key.
Many lives that we save, not just in the UK,
8:25
but around the world.
8:27
So the legacy for this research in my eyes
8:29
is that it has, we know, helped to save
lives, and I don't think from an academic
8:33
point of view, you can really ask for
anything more than that.
And the key really
8:36
for us is that this research, which is a
8:39
lifetime's worth of work for Mike and the
team, has now been applied in a way and at
8:42
a scale that is genuinely making a
8:44
difference.
And so if we can keep doing
that, I think that will be the legacy and
8:48
hopefully for many years to come floating to
8:50
live will be in the same kind of safety
8:52
message bracket as wearing a seatbelt or
8:54
something like that that just becomes normal
8:56
life and that, for me, will be success and legacy.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/business-and-management-studies-drone-ethics:
RAF Reaper drones have been widely deployed in combat missions since 2007.
The ethics of the use of these drones is widely debated, with pilots delivering lethal strikes from physical safety thousands of miles away.
Pilots lacked a suitable ethics vocabulary or framework and were found to be uncertain about this topic, having received no ethical guidance in their training.
Their experiences led to increased psychological and emotional jeopardy.
Peter Lee carried out extensive research into the experiences of Reaper drone pilots and existing training practices.
Based on his findings, Lee submitted written evidence to the APPGDrones enquiry, as well as delivering in-person teaching on the ethics of remote warfare to 80% of RAF Reaper drone crew members.
Following the recommendations of Lee’s paper to the APPGDrones enquiry, drone pilots now receive mandatory professional ethics training designed by Lee, and the RAF are in the process of exploring options for providing psychological support for operators at regular intervals.
These changes support the emotional and psychological wellbeing of pilots and inform their decision making process.
Lee has also influenced policy debate, offering advice at roundtable events and providing expert support elsewhere.
His engagement introduces a previously lacking ethical perspective to discourse around remote air warfare.
Professor Peter Lee, whose pioneering work on the ethics of military drones has driven a positive shift in the Royal Air Force’s training of its reaper squadrons to support their physical and mental wellbeing as they make life-or-death choices.
Listen on Spotify
I stumbled into the field of drones and military drone use almost by accident.
0:06
I was teaching at the Air Force College when I was asked to write an article on the Reaper crew members.
0:14
One of the most interesting things for me was interviewing Reaper pilots who had dropped bombs from conventional aircraft,
and then later they had dropped bombs or fired laser guided missiles from the reaper.
What fascinated me was the brain prompted a physical response that was exactly the same,
both in an unmanned aircraft overhead or operating out from thousands of miles away.
I have a long history with the Royal Air Force, which started during university, and I left to become a chaplain.
I retrained and went back quite a few years later.
So from 2007 to 2008, I served as a Royal Air Force chaplain.
During that wartime period, I was a hospital chaplain for the casualties of the Iraq war,
and it had a life changing effect on me because they were asking me questions like, Should we be at war?
Should Prime Minister Tony Blair have sent us to war?
I realised I was woefully ill equipped to answer the questions to address them, even for myself.
1:24
And that prompted me to to undertake a doctorate, actually, in ethics and war.
1:29
That became the bedrock of my subsequent academic career.
For many years, drones have been controversial both in public life and in the way they've been represented in the media.
And when I was asked to write about Reaper, the brief I was given was "Can you write something about the ethics of it?"
Is it fair because the crew members can be thousands of miles away from the actual aircraft when they're dropping bombs, are firing missiles?
There's no chance that the crews can be attacked because they're on other continents even.
Why, when people are so far away, are they affected.
And I came up with the phrase, the distance paradox.
Despite being physically far away and can be thousands of miles, visually, emotionally, psychologically, especially with high definition cameras and screens,
they have a very intimate view of, for example, a body they watch in intimate detail what happens to that body.
2:32
Moral injury is a form of psychological harm that was first identified in the United States soldiers and Marines after the Vietnam War.
2:41
Psychologists couldn't work out exactly why some of these veterans were displaying symptoms and behaviour
2:49
that did not fit with their clinical assessment of, say, post-traumatic stress disorder.
2:54
Moral injury is concerned with how an individual's core moral values, core moral self can be harmed or violated by things that they see and do.
3:07
It's a difference between is it legal and is it right?
To give an example, a crew had been given legal authorisation to kill a Taliban bomb emplacer.
3:17
Who is laying a roadside bomb dozens of miles from home.
3:21
It was freezing weather and he had a young son with him and the crew refused to take the shot on that occasion,
3:28
because if they killed the father as night was falling, it's likely the son would have died of exposure.
Whilst they were legally authorised to kill the Taliban fighter.
They took the decision not to fire on ethical grounds that it would have this unintended consequence of potentially killing the son.
So by having good ethics training, it helps with decision making.
And I think it it at least partially helps to protect against moral injury.
I believe my has had impact in a number of ways.
After I made my parliamentary submission in 2017.
By 2018, I was invited by the Royal Air Force to to go back to both squadrons to help introduce this ethics education.
And people have told me since that it really helped them with decision making.
And for some, how to live with some of the things they've seen and the powerlessness that they've felt.
4:29
So it hasn't changed the world, but if it's made a small difference to a number of people in this crucial role, then that's really important to me.
Perhaps the thing that gives me the most professional satisfaction is looking at the research that started initially just to tell the story about Reaper personnel,
then noticing this moral injury and other psychological effects, and the need for ethics training and education,
And then seeing it extend to the police and then see new opportunities.
And that's what makes me passionate about it, because there are so many others in fields where they're affected psychologically, emotionally and in other ways.
And if I can help others to come through that and work more effectively and live more effectively, then that will be a life and career well spent.
English

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/news-events-and-blogs/blogs/case-studies/business-and-management-studies-microfinance:
The growth of a lender base and changes to various international loan selection and supervision processes have led to increased lending, facilitating improvements to the lives of poor people through financial inclusion.
‘Pro-social’ donors - those who provide interest-free loans to borrowers - using the platform Lendwithcare (LWC) exhibit significant variations in the value and quantity of loans provided.
Andy Thorpe and his team investigated patterns in lender profiles and their lending behaviours in order to determine the factors which influence individuals engagement with the lending scheme.
Through this research they determined how best to attract new lenders and represent the profiles of borrowers in order to optimise lending behaviours.
The research team also provided training, workshops and support to participants internationally, informing the practices of microfinance platforms across the world.
LWC redesigned their platform based on the recommendations of the research team.
The changes helped LWC to more effectively target their fund-raising campaigns to potential donor groupings, and tailor them to give greater authority to the campaigns, resulting in an increase of lenders by 217% and an increase of over £25 million lent across the course of the study.
Training for representatives from other platforms shaped policy recommendations and management decisions, improving their microcredit programmes.
Changes facilitated access to microfinance for poorer segments of female entrepreneurs and marginalised groups in particular.
What fascinates me about microfinance is the fact that
it's a sustainable way of helping
low income, marginalised and vulnerable communities,
0:12
and we think the ultimate thing that we’re trying to do through
microfinance and the Lendwithcare project,
is to make people more financially independent, more self-reliant.
In the longer term, I think that's the only real solution
to poverty.
Lendwithcare is a microfinance crowdfunding platform.
So, what it does essentially is that it attracts support
from thousands of people in the UK, mostly,
although we have lots of people based in other countries as well.
They see the profile of somebody with a small business
somewhere around the world with an idea that they want to develop
and they say, I want to support that.
So they go onto the website, they make a loan.
Once the loan is fully funded, we collect the money
and we transfer it to a local partner organisation overseas.
They're the ones who will have
appraised the loan application of the person.
Hopefully it's successful and they repay the money
and it goes back eventually to your account as well as a lender in the UK.
Myself and my colleagues, we
came into contact with Lendwithcare
when they were relatively newly established
and we worked with them over a period of several years to help them
look at how they were presenting entrepreneur profiles,
how they were setting up their website
to encourage people to contribute.
The research I specifically lead, I was really interested in looking
at how contributors on the Lendwithcare platform behave.
When you sign up to the Lendwithcare website,
1:48
you create a profile, if you wish,
and you can tell people about who you are and why you lend.
A lot of the ones I was reading were quite
1:57
keen to kind of emphasize what good people they were.
You know, they'd have photos of themselves
climbing Everest and then you had other people
who just were kind of anonymous and I think very deliberately so.
And I was really interested in looking at
2:12
whether there was any difference in the behaviors between these people.
2:15
Economic theory
kind of suggests that one reason why people might give to charity
2:19
is to enhance their reputation or their image.
So I was working on the assumption that people who create these
2:25
kind of outlandish profiles of themselves
2:28
possibly had more of an image concern
than those who decided to contribute anonymously.
2:34
So given that the number of campaigns is visible,
but the amount of money given is not visible,
I hypothesised that people who are more image concerned
would want to give a greater number of loans,
but would give smaller amounts to each one to kind of maximise the
image they were presenting.
And that's exactly what we found.
So that helped inform Lendwithcare about the type of lenders
they're working with
3:00
and the incentives
and the motivations that are driving their behaviours.
We've made recommendations to them
3:05
about how they could better engage and incentivise that kind of thing.
3:09
It's just good to be able
to understand that
and to get a better insight into how you can encourage
these types of contributors to give more money.
Well, I think from the perspective of Lendwithcare,
3:20
the process was that they were doing a lot of work
3:23
internationally in developing countries
but weren't really getting a sense of
whether what they were doing was making any real difference to people.
3:30
I think they were getting a lot of questions
3:32
from their contributors about, you know, how their money was being used
and how it was affecting the lives of entrepreneurs.
So Lendwithcare were quite keen to get independent
academic assessment of just how much impact these loans
3:45
were actually having to entrepreneurs, both to help sort of present
evidence to the public and to CARE International.
3:52
But I think also so they could get a sense of the power behind
what they were doing and how it was,
you know, really making a difference and changing people's lives.
We've recently begun a partnership this year
with an organization called Doselva, which is based in Nicaragua.
4:22
So what essentially Doselva does is it helps smallholder farmers
to cultivate high value organic spices.
A hectare of maize, for example,
4:35
which is kind of the most traditional crops in Central America,
you might get about $290 per hectare.
4:42
You start producing things like turmeric and it's $1900 per hectare,
4:48
and then you start producing ginger, which is $2800 per hectare.
So suddenly your level of profit per farmer
4:56
has increased by sixfold,
once you've taken out the costs of production.
5:00
These crops,
they can be grown in conjunction with the existing forest canopy.
5:07
So you don't need to chop down trees.
5:09
In areas that are particularly sensitive to deforestation
or on the buffer zones of protected biosphere
parks, these are the crops that are ideally suited.
5:20
I recently spoke with the CEO of Doselva, our partner
in Nicaragua, and I said, “This is such a wonderful idea.
It makes so much economic sense, it makes so much environmental sense.
5:32
Why couldn't you get it going?”
And he said, “Look, it's such an innovative project
that nobody would take the risk in financing us.
With Lendwithcares funding, this project
simply wouldn't have been possible but you've been prepared to take
the risk and fund us.”
And I think one of the reasons that we took that risk is
because we have the flexibility.
Our lenders, the thousands of people that support Lendwithcare,
actively want us to do this sort of work
because it's the sort of project that makes the most sense.
The next phase of Lendwithcare is that we want to roll out the research
6:10
to other countries.
Every country where we work is different and what we want to do really:
to better help the people that we want to help,
we better need to understand the challenges that they face.
6:23
Lendwithcare and the University of Portsmouth
6:26
have been in a long term partnership for about seven years now,
and it's been a relationship that I think we've benefited
6:33
tremendously from.
6:35
The collaboration has enabled us to produce high level,
scientific, independent evidence
and address the fundamental question,
6:45
“What impact is Lendwithcare having on the people that we support?”
We've been involved in this period of quite rapid expansion
6:53
with Lendwithcare,
and I'd like to think a lot of the recommendations and insights
we've offered them in terms of
how to reach out to the public, how to engage them more effectively.
7:04
We've made a significant impact on how they've been able
to grow and develop over that time.
Neither we at Lendwithcare or our partners
have the expertise of the University of Portsmouth,
so that's where the assistance is so vital.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects/sail-to-steam-carbon-to-green-empowering-port-communities-in-the-global-south:
PhD scholars and researchers will study past energy transitions to support sustainability today
The funding from Lloyd's Register Foundation builds on the Centre’s research into coastal communities and the international networks developed by the project team of Dr Melanie Bassett , Dr Rudolph Ng , Dr Karl Bell , Professor Brad Beaven , and Dr Guy Collender .
Left to right: Dr Melanie Bassett, Dr Rudolph Ng, Professor Brad Beaven and Dr Karl Bell
Four PhD students and post-doctoral researchers will be recruited as part of the project.
They will research how coastal communities in the Global South were impacted by energy transitions from sail to steam in the 19th century, and how the move from fossil fuels to carbon-neutral shipping will impact the same communities today and in the future.
The first three-year phase of the project will focus on Macau in China and Callao in Peru.
Senior Research Fellow in Public Engagement
Melanie.Bassett@port.ac.uk
Rudolph.Ng@port.ac.uk
Post Doctoral Senior Research Associate
Guy.Collender@port.ac.uk
Podcast interview with Dr Charlie McKinlay, Lloyd's Register Maritime Decarbonisation Hub, about shipping and energy transitions: from sail to steam and to the green technologies of the future
Podcast interview with Louise Sanger, Lloyd’s Register Foundation, about Sail to Steam research project and SHE_SEES exhibition
Explore more about the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, teaching and research activities taking place across the faculty's four schools and institutes.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community:
Developing and supporting our most valuable resource
Our strategy puts the development of our R&I staff – and anyone who supports, manages or helps to deliver our R&I– at the centre of what we do.
We aim to develop internationally recognised research and innovation staff, to nurture our postgraduate researchers to become the next generation of research and innovation leaders, and to create a culture that stimulates, supports and rewards excellence.
We collaborate with researchers, academic staff, leaders and managers to provide a range of training and development opportunities, alongside a wealth of resources and guidance to help our staff gain skills and knowledge for their current and future roles.
We also enable coaching and mentoring through our programmes, recognising the many benefits that this support can bring to individuals.
Successful research also requires supporting the emotional health and wellbeing of our academic staff in recognition of the impact that working in the sector can have on them.
We are working to enhance the resources and guidance offered through our wellbeing hub and our development programmes and workshops.
As a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers , and a holder of the HR Excellence in Research Award for the last 10 years, we are committed to improving the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers.
We have also pledged to ensuring visibility, recognition and career development for technicians by joining the Technician Commitment.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat, is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers.
Mentoring helps us realise the potential of our staff in achieving organisational and professional goals and supports the development of a positive workplace culture.
Guidance, reminders, and information to support managers in leading and developing Contract Research Staff.
Support and resources for international staff new to the University.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/research-integrity-governance-and-ethics:
Our commitment to high quality ethical research
It is essential that the University of Portsmouth's national and international research follows all legal and ethical requirements.
Research governance and ethics covers processes that support researchers in understanding their wider societal, legal and ethical responsibilities.
This covers everything from human clinical trials to animal research.
The following pages provide information for researchers, regulators and funders as to how we meet these obligations.
Our policies and guidance for staff and students conducting research.
Research governance refers to the broad range of principles, standards and regulations of good practice that are in place to make sure that we continuously improve the quality of all aspects of our research.
The University of Portsmouth offers Ethics Reviews of projects, and teaching and consultancy in research ethics, on a contractual basis.
Export controls are needed for a variety of reasons, including national security and international treaty obligations.
We are committed to complying with UK Export Control law.
We're making sure science and animal welfare go hand-in-hand.
We are clear and open about when, how and why we use animals in research.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/research-integrity-governance-and-ethics/research-integrity:
Upholding excellence in research
Research integrity refers to both the reliability of research results, and the trustworthiness of researchers.
It is a commitment to carry out research in a way that is honest, transparent, rigorous, and respectful .
It means ensuring that research is:
These values are guided in the UK by the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which the University of Portsmouth fully endorses.
Maintaining high standards of research integrity is essential to the credibility and reliability of our work, the reputation of the University, and the public’s trust in research more widely.
For academic staff, it directly supports professional development, reputation, and eligibility for funding.
For students it is an essential part of learning how to be a good researcher.
Research integrity principles lead to reliable research that can be used to make good decisions.
Since a key part of good decision making is transparency, reliable research is where other researchers can see exactly what was done, and be able to repeat the work for themselves.
Research integrity works hand in hand with legal governance processes and groups such as ethics committees to ensure that staff and students understand their responsibilities when conducting research.
The University provides a range of training, policies, and resources to help staff uphold research integrity throughout the research lifecycle.
This includes:
Whether you are a new researcher or an experienced academic, we encourage you to reflect on the role of integrity in your work and to engage with the resources available to you.
You can find out much more about research integrity and the available support at a national level from the UK Research Integrity Office website.
Other useful sources of information include:
We also provide comprehensive information about our research ethics policies and support for ethical research, including the procedures and forms required to apply for ethics approval on our Research Ethics webpages.
If you have any questions or concerns about research integrity in your area, please don’t hesitate to contact your Faculty Ethics Committee Chair .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/advancing-equity-diversity-and-inclusion-in-research:
Find out how we're championing a culture of inclusivity and acceptance through events, community sponsorship, staff and student training and supporting resources.
Discover more about the work we're doing to represent, support and uplift our diverse community through events, staff and student networks, staff training and scholarships.
Check back often for helpful resources, upcoming events, and the latest updates.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/current-news-events-and-updates/culture-employment-and-development-of-academic-researchers-survey:
Do you deliver, lead or support research or researchers?
This is your opportunity to feed into our new Research Culture Strategy and resulting action plans as well as contribute to the national benchmarking exercise.
CEDARS is a national survey, designed to gather insights from research staff, research-enabling staff (e.g.
professional staff whose main role is to support research or researchers) and their managers across UK universities.
Developed by Vitae , the CEDARS survey helps institutions understand the lived experiences of researchers in areas such as employment conditions, professional development, wellbeing, and research culture.
CEDARS supports universities in assessing progress against the Researcher Development Concordat, and its findings will inform local strategies, policies, and initiatives aimed at improving the research environment.
Importantly, it gives our researchers a voice in shaping how their careers are supported and how the culture around them is evolving.
By participating in CEDARS, staff will also contribute to the national understanding of researcher experiences, helping ensure transparency, benchmarking, and shared learning across the sector.
For institutions like the University of Portsmouth, the survey is a vital source of evidence for creating a more inclusive, supportive and connected research culture.
CEDARS should only take between 10 and 20 minutes to complete and explores essential themes such as research culture, professional development, employment conditions, and the experiences of staff, providing actionable insights to shape supportive and inclusive academic environments.
Most of the questions asked in CEDARS have been pre-set by Vitae.
There are also a small number of questions that have been added to help us to support and understand research culture at our institution.
Find out more about the Culture, Employment and Development of Academic Researchers Survey (CEDARS) .
The CEDARS survey launches on Tuesday 29 April 2025 and if eligible* you will be sent an email link to the survey in your staff email account.
If you have not received an invitation to complete the survey and believe you are in one of the eligible groups, please contact researchculture@port.ac.uk .
If you have any problems accessing or completing the survey, please contact researchculture@port.ac.uk .
*All researchers, research-enabling staff and managers of researchers.
Before the survey closes, two respondents will be randomly selected to receive a £500 CEDARS Research Culture Fund prize, donated from the University’s Research Culture Fund.
Winners will be announced shortly after the survey ends, and the funding can be used to support your research or development activities, such as attending a conference or purchasing research equipment.
By running CEDARS, we’re taking a key step in implementing the principles of the revised Researcher Development Concordat.
The survey will provide valuable insights into creating a healthier, more supportive, and inclusive research culture at our University.
The survey results will inform the University of Portsmouth’s policies and practices and be used to inform the national benchmarking report that will contribute to national policymaking and advocacy, helping to shape the research culture landscape across the UK.
The CEDARS survey is being organised by Vitae and administered using the Jisc Online survey software.
Whilst the survey is taking place user details will be held by the Jisc system to allow the survey software to send targeted reminders to staff who have yet to complete the survey.
This information will contain your institutional email address, your School or Department, and if relevant your REF Unit of Assessment.
Whilst the survey is still open you have the right to withdraw consent for us to use or store your data, however at the end of the survey period (23 May 2025) it will no longer be possible to withdraw your data as the linked email address will be deleted and the data will be held so that individuals are no longer identifiable.
After the survey has ended your anonymised data will be held securely for up to 10 years and may be used in summary form by Vitae and the University of Portsmouth in scientific, research or statistical reports to better understand the staff experience.
Only members of the CEDARS survey analysis team will have access to the anonymised data.
No individual will ever be identified in any reports or publications, and the smallest summary value we will report will have at least 5 people contributing to it.
We will store your data securely and all staff will receive a summary of the results later in the year.
If you have any queries about how your data will be used or processed, please contact the Doctoral College ( doctoral-college@port.ac.uk ) or the University’s Disclosure and Complaints Manager, Samantha Hill at complaintsadvice@port.ac.uk .
You also have the right to lodge a complaint about how your data has been used with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) .
If you do not wish to take part in the survey, please contact researchculture@port.ac.uk to be removed from the CEDARS 2025 mailing list.
Please note that, because the survey data is anonymous, any response to information you have provided cannot be fed back to you directly.
If there is anything you would like a specific response to, please contact your line manager or Head of School/Department.
For further information about the support available to you as a member of staff at the University of Portsmouth, please contact researchculture@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/open-research:
Find out more about our open and collaborative research community
As a reflection of the University’s commitment to the UK Reproducibility Network ( UKRN ), UoPen has adopted a collaborative leadership structure with Dr Matt Miller-Dicks as the Institutional Lead, and Dr Stefana Juncu as the Local Network Lead.
Matt’s role is to work with senior research leadership across the University to advocate for open research practices and research integrity.
Stef’s role is to support the grassroots network of researchers who are keen to engage with open research, as well as to understand engagement levels across different faculties, and increase awareness of UoPen.
Please reach out to Stef or Matt if you are interested in getting involved, organising events, or if you have any specific questions about open research at Portsmouth.
Stef and Matt work with a wide-range of people from across the University, including open access and research data management staff as well as academic Faculty Open Research Leads.
Please feel free to get in touch with any of the Faculty leads if you want to discuss local ideas and opportunities with them.
The Portsmouth open research network started in 2019, through ReproducibiliTea , which is a grassroots journal club initiative that offers a platform to discuss diverse research issues, papers, and ideas about improving research, and reproducibility.
ReproducibiliTea at Portsmouth was created and led by PhD students, and attended by both students and academic staff, and has been running every year since its inception, moving online during COVID.
ReproducibiliTea continues to be a PhD-led initiative and we are currently recruiting new organising members so please get in touch with Stef if you would like to get involved.
The University of Portsmouth Open Research (UoPen) Network was formed in 2023, by Matt Miller-Dicks and Beatriz Lopez with membership of staff from across the University, including Stef Juncu , Jo Corbett , Gary Pike, Simon Kolstoe , Joy Watts .
UoPen aims to bring together a multidisciplinary team of academic and professional support staff, with a range of relevant expertise to identify how best to support staff from a wide diversity of research and innovation activities across all faculties at UoP, and to help implement and develop open research practices.
The work in the first year of UoPen culminated in a launch event in the summer of 2024, with a series of talks that had the collective aim of: (1) raising awareness of open research among colleagues; (2) encouraging staff to start thinking about how they can implement open research practices in their own work; (3) sharing examples of effective practice in open research; and (4) highlighting opportunities for staff to begin to contribute to the UoPen network.
The UoPen network has delivered Faculty-specific talks to support the development of PhD students of the relevance of open research to their research area.
Some of the Faculty leads have also attended some of these sessions to highlight their experience with engaging with Open research in their own research topic, and using various methodologies.
We are excited to organise more events for PGR students across the university.
If you are interested in organising small group training events for your School/Faculty please get in touch.
Stef and the OR Faculty Leads are currently organising a Faculty Roadshow, including at least one event per each Faculty on how Open Research fits with their research methodologies and processes.
We are trying to base these meetings around specific research techniques and types of engagement with open research with the aim of connecting people across the Faculties to have conversations together and to understand the different needs of researchers within and between research areas.
More information will be added about these events soon but please get in touch with Stef if you would like to find out more.
Relevant information about external events will be added here, but one easy way of keeping up with these is via the Open Research Calendar .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/connecting-with-our-partners:
At the University of Portsmouth, we believe that strong partnerships are the cornerstone of a vibrant research culture.
By connecting with a diverse range of partners, including academic institutions, industry leaders, government bodies, and community organizations, we aim to:
Through these connections, we are committed to advancing research excellence and creating a supportive, inclusive, and dynamic research environment.
Our research engages with businesses and communities on local, national, and international levels, influencing policy, driving innovation, and enhancing cultural understanding.
We have an active public engagement network that involves the public in research processes and our Knowledge Exchange (KE) focuses on mutually beneficial collaborations with external communities, enhancing research impact and student employability.
We also explore commercialisation opportunities, translating academic research into commercial ventures through new products, processes, and intellectual property exploitation.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/current-news-events-and-updates:
The latest on Research Culture at UoP
8 April 2025

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars/business-and-law-seminars:
Join in with inspiring research seminars facilitated by our Faculty of Business and Law
Seminars run by the Faculty of Business and Law are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.
PGR Students and staff: follow this link
All our faculties run seminars open to academics and students within the University and in the global research community.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars/creative-and-cultural-industries-seminars:
Join in with inspiring research seminars facilitated by our Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries
Seminars run by the Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.
There are no seminars currently scheduled.
Return to our research seminar landing page to discover events by other faculties.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars/humanities-and-social-sciences-seminars:
Join in with inspiring research seminars facilitated by our Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
Seminars run by the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.
St George's Building 0.22 and online.
Students and staff: follow this link

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars/science-and-health-seminars:
Join in with inspiring research seminars facilitated by our Faculty of Science and Health
Seminars run by the Faculty of Science and Health are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-seminars/research-seminars-faculty-of-technology:
Join in with inspiring research seminars facilitated by our Faculty of Technology
Seminars run by the Faculty of Technology are open to all our postgraduate students and academic staff, and some are also open to members of the public and other institutions.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/biomaterials-for-tissue-engineering:
Explore how our research helps in tissue regeneration
We work on engineered novel bio-polymers made with natural substances or of synthetic nature so they can become responsive materials that are liquid at room temperature and turn to gels in the body.
These gels are formulated to carry human cells and instruct them to regenerate tissues such as bone and cartilage.
In this field, we work closely with mechanical engineers to study the mechanical properties of healthy tissues and better mimic them with our materials that work as scaffolds for tissue engineering.
This collaboration also extends to additive manufacturing such as 3D printing and other manufacturing techniques such as electrospinning.
Through collaboration with industry, we work at developing products that will be used in the repair of damaged tissue, in particular cartilage, bone, tendons and muscles.
Our work is supported by a number of industrial partners that include small and medium size companies in the area of biomaterials and tissue engineering, and bigger pharmaceutical companies.
Roncada, T., Bonithon, R., Blunn, G.
and Roldo, M., (2022) “Soft substrates direct stem cell differentiation into the chondrogenic lineage without the use of growth factors”, Journal of Tissue Engineering.
Rahayu, D.
P., De Mori, A., Yusuf, R., Draheim, R .
, Lalatsa, A.
and Roldo, M .
, (2022) “Enhancing the antibacterial effect of Chitosan to combat orthopaedic implant-associated infections”, Carbohydrate Polymers.
We're researching the bioactive molecules and biocompatible materials for their potential use as drug carriers, bioadhesives, surgical implants and more.
Marta.Roldo@port.ac.uk
Biomaterials for tissue engineering is one of areas of expertise in the Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Biomedical Sciences research area.
Explore the others here.
We develop novel technologies for disease diagnosis at an early pre-symptomatic stage using a synergistic combination of gold nanostructures and unique Raman spectroscopic techniques
We're helping to create targeted, safe and effective medicines to positively impact patients' lives.
Discover how our research identifies new drug molecules and improves drug design
We're working to improve the practices, selection, use and disposal of pharmaceuticals to protect the environment, and we're promoting the vital role pharmacists can play in delivering better care to patients.
Browse our postgraduate research degrees – including PhDs and MPhils – at our Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Biomedical Sciences postgraduate research degrees page.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/creating-a-sustainable-and-resilient-world-for-the-future:
Explore our research in sustainable development, disaster management, human geography and institutional governance
We investigate and model environmental and societal risk, to ensure that economic and natural resources are managed sustainably for the future.
Using our expertise in Earth observation, hazard assessment, disaster management, and institutional governance, we work with stakeholders to mitigate risk to people, and the natural and built environment.
Our research strives to help develop a sustainable, resilient and just society.
Discover how our research manages risk and is seeking more effective ways to build resilience.
Our research is supported by a range of specialist facilities used by staff and students.
We also work regularly with visiting researchers and industry from around the world.
Learn how to use virtual reality to identify rocks and minerals using remote imaging and data processing techniques.
Our Geotechnics Laboratory – or Soils Lab – has equipment for analysing fine- and coarse-grained soils.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/diagnostics:
Explore more about our contribution to early detection of cancer and tissue degeneration diseases
We develop novel technologies for disease diagnosis at an early pre-symptomatic stage using a synergistic combination of gold nanostructures and unique Raman spectroscopic techniques.
Raman spectroscopy offers the potential to improve the accuracy of diagnosis for certain types of cancer by detecting subtle changes in the molecular of the affected tissue or blood samples.
The advantage of this technique is that it is non-invasive and it can provide real-time information about the chemical composition of tissues, allowing for easy and early detection of changes associated with cancer development.
Raman can also be used in the early detection of tissue degeneration diseases such as osteoarthritis.
Associate Dean (Academic)
Marisa.Vdmerwe@port.ac.uk
Dey, P., Vaideanu, A., Mosca, S., Salimi, M., Gardner, B., Palombo, F., Uchegbu, I., Baumberg, J., Schatzlein, A., Matousek, P.
and Stone, N., (2022), "Surface enhanced deep Raman detection of cancer tumour through 71 mm of heterogeneous tissue", Nanotheranostics.
Dey, P.
, Blakey, I.
and Stone, N., (2020), "Diagnostic prospects and preclinical development of optical technologies using gold nanostructure contrast agents to boost endogenous tissue contrast", Chemical Science.
Siani, A., Teixeira, L.
I., D’Arcy, R., Roberts, I.
V., El Mohtadi, F., Donno, R., and Tirelli, N.
(2023) "Polysulfide nanoparticles inhibit fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition via extracellular ROS scavenging and have potential anti-fibrotic properties", Biomaterials Advances
We work at developing products that will be used in the repair of damaged tissue, in particular cartilage, bone, tendons and muscles.
We're exploring the molecules and molecular processes that cause diseases, and working to develop better treatments.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/further-education:
Explore our research into further education
England’s further education (FE) sector is a key part of the wider educational offering to students.
Further education providers include colleges, sixth forms, specialist colleges (in areas such as agriculture and arts), independent training providers, adult community education and offender learning.
The provision offered by the further education sector is broad and varied to meet the needs of its diverse student population.
Programmes range from basic skills, vocational and technical qualifications to academic and higher education courses - all of which are designed to prepare students to progress onto higher study and/or employment.
Courses are also developed to to support students in the workplace, extending their technical skills and academic knowledge to enhance both their career prospects and their organisations' practice.
Our research into further education explores a multiplicity of further education opportunities, from adult education, transitions from military service, leadership and management, and further education student experience.
Work with the Education and Training Foundation to develop an online pre-ITE (Initial Teacher Education) programme designed for people considering a career in FE teaching.
In partnership with the Education and Training Foundation and Gatsby Charitable Foundation, Further Forces is a scheme to retrain Armed Forces Service Leavers to teach technical subjects, including Science, Engineering and Technology (SET) in the Further Education (FE) and Skills Sector.
The aims of the project are to up-skill existing trainers who have already completed a level 4 Certificate in Education and Training teaching qualification.
Our work is frequently published in leading academic journals, including Educational Management Administration and Leadership , International Journal of Training and Development , International Journal of Educational Research , Research in Post-Compulsory Education and Journal of Education and Work .
Mather, D.
(2023) "How does the portrayal of civilian teacher training schemes affect the appeal of them for military personnel?", Research in Post-Compulsory Education
Corbett, S., Johnston, K., Bezuidenhout, A.
(2023) "Further education workforce wellbeing: did Covid actually change anything?", Educational Management Administration and Leadership
Corbett, S.
(2022) "Ladder of competencies for education middle managers in England", International Journal of Training and Development
Poole.
(2022) "Perceptions of performativity in English Further Education", Research in Post-Compulsory Education
Poole, R., Cook, F., Sims, S., Brindley, J.
(2023) "Challenges, barriers and strategies for engaging in Level 7 apprenticeship studies", Journal of Education and Work
Further education is one of our five areas of expertise in Education research - explore the others below.
In this area of expertise, we're exploring the experiences and opportunities that play a role in the development of young children.
We're researching into issues in higher education, and finding solutions to them.
Explore our higher education research.
Our work is identifying, exploring and engaging with forms of discrimination across gender and race in the education system.
Our work provides a platform that showcases research, innovation and wider activities being developed in collaboration with young people, community members and practitioner and academic colleagues.
Browse our postgraduate research degrees - including PhDs and MPhils - on our Education postgraduate research degrees page.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/nanomaterials-for-drug-and-gene-delivery:
Explore how we're helping to create targeted, safe and effective medicines to positively impact patients' lives
Delivery of an effective dose of a drug specifically to its target cells increases its efficacy and reduces side effects.
Through our nanomaterials and drug delivery research, we're helping to create targeted, safe and effective medicines to positively impact patients' lives.
We're engineering and developing smart medicines for organ-specific diseases such as tumours, and our engineered nanomaterials enhance the ability of novel drugs that prevent and treat infections.
Drugs that are administered on their own spread throughout the body in an uncontrolled way – leading to undesired toxicity and low efficacy.
The medicines we develop can be delivered via smart carriers to specific parts of the body where a disease occurs, making them more effective and less likely to cause side-effects.
We’re also developing novel polymeric materials with functions inspired by biological systems.
These materials generate platforms with new biomimetic polymeric architectures designed to enhance treatment, diagnosis, and prevention of chronic diseases (such as cancer, cardiovascular, and lysosomal storage diseases).
The novel delivery systems are also able to deliver drugs to intracellular targets currently considered “undruggable”.
We're also exploring new platforms for tissue-specific and site-specific gene delivery using functionalised lipid nanoparticles and hybrid peptide-lipid nanoparticles for treatment of cancer and metabolic disorders.
Our research also includes development and optimisation of smart lipid nanoparticles (LNPs), and rationally designed peptides for targeted delivery of therapeutic nucleic acids – such as siRNA and mRNA to specific tissues or tumours.
This is the technology currently used in the successful delivery of vaccines – such as the Covid-19 vaccine.
We use this approach to reduce the production of proteins by tumours using RNA interference (RNAi), and this allows us to efficiently treat different types of cancer with low adverse effects.
This approach can be used to increase protein production in specific tissues – used for the treatment of various t metabolic disorders.
Our research also uses the natural self-assembly and recognition properties of nucleic acid sequences (such as DNA) for biological, therapeutic and nanotechnology applications.
We seek to improve the ability of these natural molecules to form triple helix structures by developing novel DNA-binding agents capable of recognising unique locations along the double-helical DNA.
These molecules have potential to modulate the expression of specific genes, and introduce functionality into artificial DNA nanoconstructs.
Zhao, Y., Chandrasekaran, A.
R., Rusling, D.
A., Woloszyn, K., Hao, Y., Hernandez, C., Vecchioni, S., Ohayon, Y.
P., Mao, C., Seeman, N.
and Sha, R., (2023), "The formation and displacement of ordered DNA triplexes in self-assembled three-dimensional DNA crystals", Journal of the American Chemical Society.
Hadianamrei, R., Tomeh, M.
A., Wang, J., Brown, S.
and Zhao, X., (2023), "Surfactant like peptides for targeted gene delivery to cancer cells", Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications.
Hadianamrei R.
, Wang J., Brown S., Zhao X., (2022), "Rationally designed cationic amphiphilic peptides for selective gene delivery to cancer cells", International Journal of Pharmaceutics.
d’Arcy, R., El Mohtadi, F.
, Francini, N., R.
DeJulius, C., Back, H., Gennari, A., Geven, M., Lopez-Cavestany, M., Yesim Turhan, Z., Yu, F., Bong Lee, J., R.
King, M., Kagan, L., Duvall, C.
and Tirelli, N., (2022), "A reactive oxygen species-scavenging ‘stealth’ polymer, poly(thioglycidyl glycerol), outperforms poly(ethylene glycol) in protein conjugates and nanocarriers and enhances protein stability to environmental and biological stressors", Journal of the American Chemical Society.
Rusling, D.
, (2021), "Triplex-forming properties and enzymatic incorporation of a base-modified nucleotide capable of duplex DNA recognition at neutral pH", Nucleic Acids Research.
Nanomaterials for Drug and Gene Delivery is one of areas of expertise in the Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Biomedical Sciences research area.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/solving-present-societal-and-environmental-challenges:
Explore our research in environmental science, physical geography, engineering geology and natural and anthropogenic hazards
We study marine, freshwater and terrestrial environments, and the cryosphere to better understand the complex challenges facing our changing World.
Through our expertise in sustainable development, management of natural resources, natural and anthropogenic hazards, engineering geology, and political economy, our research develops innovative solutions to these challenges, to enable the sustainable and equitable management of our planet.
Explore the work we’re doing in this area, learn more about our recent projects, the academic and industrial partners we’re collaborating with, and who our major funders are.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/theory-modelling-and-drug-design:
Our research applies molecular modelling methods to a wide range of chemical and biological areas.
Computer simulations are used to help solve the structure of complex catalytic materials, including both biological enzymes and solid-state catalysts.
Modelling allows us to improve our understanding of these materials and design improved ones.
We also use a combination of theory and experiments to optimise the use of mesoporous and microporous materials for the controlled release of drugs.
Our studies allow us to design an ideal carrier for specific drugs to enhance their efficacy.
We also use range of modelling techniques to investigate the structure and properties of enzymes and proteins.
In addition, we use computational high-throughput screening methods to identify new drug molecules for experimental investigation.
A trimer of PET polymer docked in the active site of PETase.
Potter, M.
E., Amsler, J., Spiske, L., Plessow, P.
N., Asare, T., Carravetta, M., Raja, R., Cox, P.
A., Studt, F.
and Armstrong, L-M., (2023), "Combining theoretical and experimental methods to probe confinement within microporous solid acid catalysts for alcohol dehydration", ACS Catalysis.
Erickson, E., Gado, J.
E., Avilan, L., Bratti, F., Brizendine, R.
K., Cox, PA., Gill, R., Graham, R., Kim, D-J., Koenig, G., Michener, W.
E., Poudel, S., Ramirez, K.
J., Shakespeare, T.
J., Zahn, M., Boyd, E.
S., Payne, C., DuBois, J.
L., Pickford, A.
R., Beckham, G.
T., and 1 others, (2022), "Sourcing thermotolerant poly(ethylene terephthalate) hydrolase scaffolds from natural diversity", Nature Communications.
Wise, A.
J., Sefy, J.
S., Barbu, E., O'Malley, A.
J., van der Merwe, S.
M.
and Cox, P.
A., (2020), "Zero-order and prolonged release of atenolol from microporous FAU and BEA zeolites, and mesoporous MCM-41: experimental and theoretical investigations", Journal of Controlled Release.
Professor of Materials Chemistry
Paul.Cox@port.ac.uk
Theory, Modelling and Drug Design is one of areas of expertise in the Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Biomedical Sciences research area.
We're researching how microbes can cause infectious diseases and benefit human health, and tackling antibiotic resistance by identifying new molecules in pathogenic microbes.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/areas-of-expertise/unesco-chair-in-ocean-governance:
Connecting blue knowledge for a sustainable future
An UNESCO Chair is a team led by a higher education or research institution that partners with UNESCO on a project to advance knowledge and practice in an area of common priority.
There are currently some 950 UNESCO Chairs all over the world.
The UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance develops around the domain of Ocean and inland waters governance (Blue Governance) that is transdisciplinary by nature and includes disciplines such as economics, management, law, policy, ecology, marine biology, geography, transport logistics and information science.
‘Blue Governance’ (BG) is an emerging concept built from the Blue Economy and Ocean Governance principles.
It refers to structures and processes designed to ensure accountability, transparency, responsiveness, rule of law, stability, equity and inclusiveness, empowerment, and broad-based participation.
Therefore, BG relates to the public and private institutional mechanisms (institutional coordination, private-public partnerships, institutional arrangements, etc.) required to implement initiatives, strategies and policies of the UN Decade of Ocean Sciences for Sustainable Development.
He.Yuan@port.ac.uk
The UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance aims to contribute to the improved governance of oceans and inland waters.
It uses the Decade of Ocean Sciences for Sustainable Development framework to address the multifaceted challenge of diverse stakeholders, knowledge gaps and changing environments.
The Chair adopts an interdisciplinary and collaborative approach across research, education and policy initiatives, with a focus on partnerships and exchange.
Undertake research to better understand marine and inland environments and their governance to promote natured-based solutions for national needs.
Promote education and training of the youth, civil society and specific stakeholders to empower self-governance and evidence-based policies.
Drive better policy governance by providing accessible and essential inter-disciplinary expertise to support and guide blue economy policies.
Network with countries of the global south and other UNESCO Chairs for increased global education, capacity building and promote shared understanding.
Blue Horizon Seminar Series is organised by the UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance, Centre for Blue Governance (CBG), aims to provide a comprehensive exploration of the diverse domains underpinning the topics around blue governance and the blue economy.
The series will explore critical areas such as blue policies, maritime security, blue energy, technologies, transport solutions, biodiversity, blue carbon, climate change, and aquatic resources management.
Aligning with the interdisciplinary nature of the UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance and CBG, the series will bring together experts from various fields, including economics, law, policy and governance, geography, logistics, technology, marine biology, and ecology etc., to address the most pressing blue governance issues of our time and reflect upon pathways for the future.
This intellectual journey is key to the development of sustainability and the future of every “blue” bit of our day-to-day lives.
The Blue Horizon Seminar Series warmly welcomes audiences from both University of Portsmouth (staff and students) and general public.
#BlueHorizonSeminar
This webinar explores gender dynamics within the blue economy.
We will unravel the challenges women encounter in the maritime and aquatic sectors.
Through insightful discussions and real-world perspectives, we aim to highlight the often unacknowledged contributions of women, while addressing the barriers they navigate.
In particular, what works to prevent and respond to violence and harassment and all discriminations experienced by women.
Together, we will explore potential actions and strategies to promote inclusivity and gender equality hence fostering a more sustainable and vibrant blue economy for all.
Took place: Wednesday, 20 March 2-3pm, online
The EU 2020 Biodiversity strategy and 7th Environment Action Programme highlights the importance of halting the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services by preserving ecosystems and fully integrating environmental requirements into policymaking to face climate change.
Aquatic environments cover more than 70% of our planet’s surface and the value of the global oceans is estimated to be US$24 trillion.
The scale and importance of aquatic systems impacts biodiversity and ecosystem services and is critical to addressing crucial challenges in climate change, biodiversity loss, and safeguarding human health and well-being.
However, despite the fundamental importance of these systems, there are large gaps in our conceptual knowledge and practice on how to best govern aquatic environments for the common good.
The CBG encompasses numerous sub-topics and five central themes:
1) blue policies, planning and security;
2) blue energy, technologies and transport solutions;
3) biodiversity, blue carbon and climate change;
4) aquatic resources management.
As the Centre is a university-wide initiative, it brings disciplines from various horizons, including economics, law, policy and governance, geography, logistics, technology, marine biology and ecology.
This inter-disciplinary extends to research projects that build a strong interrelationship between social and natural science disciplines.
At the moment intentions are good but too fragmented.
It’s time for countries and science to stop working in isolation and work together.
Professor Pierre Failler, Chairholder of the UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance, Director of the Centre for Blue Governance at the University of Portsmouth
The UNESCO Chair in Ocean Governance warmly welcomes students, researchers, institutions and business partners, and all individuals and organisations who are interested in blue governance and willing to contribute to the blue stewardship, to join our community.
Establishing a blue network together and sharing blue knowledge.
X @UNESCOChair_OG | Dr He Yuan he.yuan@port.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-areas/environmental-geography-and-geosciences:
Explore the broad range of environment, geography and geoscience research we’re undertaking across our three areas of expertise
School of the Environment and Life Sciences explores a wide range of research focused on our planet's past, present, and future – from the evolution of the Earth and life, to solving present environmental challenges, and creating a sustainable world for the future.
Our work is at the interfaces of science, policy, industry, and society, and involves global partnerships.
We're passionate about providing an inclusive, supportive and inspiring environment for our staff, students, and visitors to pursue this research.
In our submission to the Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF 2021), the majority of our research was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour: 82% for Unit of Assessment (UoA) 7 and 53 % for UoA14.
The impact of our research was rated as outstanding or very considerable in terms of reach and significance.
Our impact case studies showed societal benefits in areas such as water quality monitoring, management of the Chernobyl exclusion zone and improving the wellbeing of international women migrants and their families in Indonesia.
Our research regularly receives funding from many leading organizations, including the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC),  Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC), Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Royal Society, Innovate UK, the British Council and charitable trusts.
Explore our Earth and Environmental Sciences postgraduate research degrees - including PhDs and MPhils.
Find out more about our three interconnected areas of research expertise, including our projects, publications and partnerships.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects/portsmouth-literary-map:
Explore Portsmouth's rich literary heritage and contemporary literature scene
The project is led by Mark Frost and Maggie Bowers of the English Literature team, working with local community organisations such as Portsmouth Libraries and Visit Portsmouth to promote literary Portsmouth through collaborative projects and public events.
You can use the Portsmouth Literary Map app to explore and uncover the city's connections with historical and living authors, on your mobile, tablet or computer.
You'll find information and quotations from literary works connected to specific locations in and around the city, alongside notable quotations about the city in general.
Key writers include Charles Dickens, Arthur Conan Doyle, Rudyard Kipling, Olivia Manning, Simon Armitage, Pauline Rowson, Jonathan Meades, Michelle Magorian, and Maggie Sawkins.
Visit the map
The map has been built by researchers in English Literature, History, and Creative Writing, working with interested local organisations and individuals.
It's in a constant state of expansion, planning to move beyond the borders of the city and to explore literary Hampshire.
We're also publishing longer pieces on the literary scene on the Writing Literary Portsmouth blog , showcasing the city's remarkable literary pedigree and its thriving literary community.
Mark.Frost@port.ac.uk
Margaret.Bowers@port.ac.uk
For more information about the project, please contact Dr Mark Frost, Director of the Portsmouth Literary Map: mark.frost@port.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects/disrupted-authority-0:
The project explores 250 years of dynamic, fundamental change in the relationship between individuals and authority (c.1450-c.1700).
We examine the ways in which emotion, language, behaviour, performance, and writing disrupted  and reshaped dominant modes of thought, governance and religious belief.
Examining disruption to early modern State, Church and societal authorities also provides insight into the ways people see their position and rights within social and political structures today.
Maria.Cannon@port.ac.uk
Fiona.McCall@port.ac.uk
To learn more, or become part of our Project network, please contact the Project Lead, Katy Gibbons: katy.gibbons@port.ac.uk
Follow us on Twitter: @AuthDisrupted

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects/move-on:
MOVE-ON is the follow-up to the MOVE (Facilitating MAES to support regional policy in OVerseas Europe: mobilizing stakeholders and pooling resources) project, which involves policy makers, researchers and civil society in the development of methodologies for mapping and assessing the state of ecosystems and their services in outermost regions (OR) and overseas countries and territories (OCT).
The ongoing work on MOVE has already shown the steps forward that are required in the implementation of MAES (Mapping and Assessing Ecosystem Services) in ORs and OCTs.
MOVE-ON proposes to address these 3 issues in an integrated fashion, through the development of 4 Anchor Projects, each with multiple purposes.
Firstly, these Anchor Projects will advance MAES in a context of low development in the field – in this sense, they were chosen to cover a wide range of ecosystems (marine and terrestrial), geographical locations and scales, and to cover the complete spectrum from methodological development to decision-maker advice.
Secondly, the Anchor Projects are also opportunities for joint reflections on the methodological specificities of ORs and OCTs and as a focus where similar, ongoing initiatives could converge, creating synergies and opportunities for development at a larger scale than the initial MOVE consortium.
Finally, the Anchor Project are planned to respond to the specific needs of decision-makers, so they can bridge the gap between the technical and the political spheres.
This will be further aided by an Activity fully dedicated to looking at how the protection of environment and the improvement of the health status of ecosystems can support the achievement of EU and International policies and goals, developing and disseminating good practice guidelines and policy recommendations.
Project locations include Macaronesia, Réunion Island, French Guiana, South Atlantic UK Overseas territories, Martinique, French Polynesia, and Mayotte.
This project has received funding from the EU represented by European Commission Directorate General Environment under grant agreement Nº:07.027735/2019/808239/SUB/ENV.D2

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/research-projects/social-perception-observatory:
Sign up to the Social Perceptions Observatory (SPO) and play your part by answering surveys that could help shape our groundbreaking research
The University of Portsmouth Social Perceptions Observatory (SPO) will collate and make available to University of Portsmouth academic researchers pools of volunteers for surveys in Portsmouth and surrounding areas.
Potential participants will provide basic demographics, indicate their availability for involvement with different types of research, and include additional (voluntary) information on their lifestyle and general circumstances.
This information will form the basis for aiding selection of relevant participants for each survey.
We hope that this will be a resource to enable more efficient data collection, completion of pilot studies, and boosting of grant applications.
The SPO will enlist members of local organisations – including University of Portsmouth – and support recruitment of hard to reach groups, help shape a local research agenda, and support projects that aim to benefit communities in Portsmouth and Hampshire.
In addition, we hope the SPO can act as a hub for groups of researchers with shared interests and methods across the University, promoting collaboration and cooperation across Schools and Faculties.
Taking part in the observatory gives you a chance to answer key research questions that could impact on how policies – such as those concerned with the environment, social issues and economic change – are developed and implemented.
Too often, major policies are developed without first asking for the opinions and insights of the members of society who are most likely to be affected by it.
By doing this, we believe that more effective decisions can be taken.
For that reason, we're keen for the pool of volunteers in the observatory to come from across society, and we would actively encourage all parts of the community to register and volunteer for the observatory.
You can register for the SPO and take the initial volunteer survey here .
It's up to you which surveys you answer.
When you sign up to be a volunteer, we'll ask you a few questions to ensure that only surveys of interest are sent to you – such as environmental issues, or health and social issues – but you can decide to take a survey or not.
You're under no obligation and if you decide not to answer a particular survey, it won't affect you being asked again.
Any online research survey that you are asked to participate in will have details of what the survey is about, an indication of how long it will take to complete and the details of what will happen to your information, how it will be analysed and aid the researcher, and how it will be securely stored.
Many of the surveys can be taken online and the researcher involved will not be given any personal information about you, such as your name, email address or postcode.
Some researchers may need to complete follow-up focus groups or longitudinal surveys, where you'll have individual contact with the researcher, and where further details may be taken – but again, there's no obligation to take part in such surveys.
However, if you are willing to take part in a particular focus group or longitudinal survey, the researcher will send you details directly.
You can still change your mind if you subsequently decide not to take part.
All surveys sent out by the SPO to volunteers will have had to gain appropriate ethical approval from within the University, to ensure that the questions they ask and the information they gather are appropriate, that procedures follow GDPR guidance and that any data collected is securely stored.
We'll try to keep the number of surveys sent to each member of the volunteer pool to a maximum of four per year , although you can indicate a preferred number on the sign-up form.
No, taking part in the observatory is voluntary .
For specific focus group or longitudinal research projects, however, there may be funding for participants expenses, but this will be indicated when requests for these surveys are sent out and then discussed between potential participants and the researchers involved.
Personal data will be treated in the strictest confidence, and all data from the registration and survey will be stored on a password protected Google drive, behind the University's firewall.
This folder is only accessible by the three SPO coordinators.
This limits the number of individuals involved in handling personal and sensitive data.
At the end of the SPO, all data will be securely destroyed.
Please remember that you can ask for your name and details to be removed from the observatory at any time without providing any reason.
Our online surveys are also secure and password protected, and in line with University’s Research Data Management Policy , after 10 years the storage of the data will be reviewed.
Yes, any researcher using the SPO to recruit people to their survey will have to agree to produce a short summary of the outcomes from the research project, including why the survey was important to their findings.
The researcher will also need to inform volunteers when this report can be expected as part of the survey.
These short reports will be made publicly available on this web page.
The Social Perceptions Observatory (SPO) is a pool of individuals in Portsmouth and the surrounding area who have indicated that they might be willing to participate in research projects developed at the University of Portsmouth.
This might involve expressing their opinion and experiences through anonymous online surveys, or, if they so wish, also interviews or focus groups.
The questions respondents could be asked may range from concerns about the environment, to how they think the police managed the lockdown restrictions.
Our aim is for the SPO to evolve into a hub for survey-based research at the University.
A scoping study for the SPO has been funded by the theme directors for Democratic Citizenship, Risk and Security, and Environment and Sustainability.
A team of three academics – Dr Rob Inkpen (SEGG), Dr Alessandra Fasulo (Psychology) and Dr Brian Baily (SEGG) – will run the SPO, and a Steering Group will be developed to ensure that users of the SPO have a voice in how the SPO develops.
As the SPO grows, it's our aim to develop a more formal organisational structure, to ensure appropriate representation among both users and volunteers.
We are currently are limiting use of the SPO to academic researchers.
For more information, please contact Robert Inkpen .
For guidance on using the SPO, please read the eight 'Key Points for Data Protection and Ethics' below.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community/support-for-mentoring:
A guide for mentors and mentees
Mentoring is a supportive learning tool for personal and professional development.
It helps individuals manage their careers, improve skills, and address personal challenges.
A mentoring relationship involves an experienced individual (mentor) providing guidance, support, and advice to a less experienced individual (mentee), fostering an environment of trust, feedback, and mutual respect.
Mentoring can help staff continuously develop their skills, increase their knowledge and understanding.
There is also a positive personal impact for mentors, who report that the process is not only a rewarding and developmental experience but also an opportunity to reflect on their own experience and practice.
While mentoring is a valuable tool for growth and development, it is important to clarify what mentoring is not.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community/support-for-mentoring/mentoring-roles-and-responsibilities:
Mentors are passionate about supporting others by sharing their knowledge, expertise and experience and offer valuable ideas and advice when appropriate.
Becoming a mentor is a great way to stay connected with the wider community and an opportunity to make a positive impact within the organisation.
In addition, mentors often express satisfaction from passing on knowledge and playing a role in the development of their colleagues.
Mentors are there to:
"My experience of mentoring is not about solving problems, it is about a transformational journey that I take with my mentee.
I believe I benefit as much from being a mentor as my mentee.
The opportunity to talk through challenges a mentee may experience provides a different perspective for both of us.
The diversity of my mentees provides fresh insights that enable me to appreciate other people's perspectives, developing my own self-awareness.’’ Dr Liza Howe-Walsh (Mentor), Reader of International Human Resource Management, DBA, MSc, BA (Hons), PG CERT Ed, SFHEA, MCIPD.
Mentees can be any member of staff who would find it useful to have a neutral mentor who can help them identify and achieve specific objectives.
Mentees are passionate about growing professionally, learning new skills, navigating their career path and expanding their professional networks.
Mentees should:
"One of the reasons I would really recommend having a mentor is not only the knowledge and coaching you receive, but also the reassurance you get from it.
None of us are the finished article and it is encouraging to hear what your mentor has learnt along the way in terms of what they have focused on, how to handle certain situations and what techniques/ coping strategies they have tried which work for them.
I realise my mentor is also still learning, and that has given me tremendous confidence and faith in my own ability.." Anonymous (Mentee)
Pre-first session, the Mentee should:

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community/support-for-mentoring/planning-for-the-mentoring-sessions:
Usually about hour long, mentoring sessions should be arranged at a time and frequency agreed between the mentor and mentee.
It is recommended that there should be a minimum of three mentoring sessions delivered to enable progress to be made, but relationships can often last longer.

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community/support-for-mentoring/mentoring-tips-and-techniques:
Top tips for mentors
Top tips for mentees

New sentences found on https://port.ac.uk/research/our-research-and-innovation-culture/supporting-our-ri-community/support-for-mentoring/additional-support-and-resources:
- Mentoring and Mentorship
- Mentorship - Helping Women to Achieve their Potential
- Coaching to Achieve our Goals
If you have any questions about mentoring at the University please get in touch.
researchculture@port.ac.uk