# Site: https://www.qmul.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk:
04 October
Undergraduate Open Day
10:00 AM - 4:00 PM
When you study at Queen Mary, you get to be part of a friendly and inclusive global community.
We provide a range of affordable accommodation on or near our campuses in Mile End, Whitechapel and Charter House Square.
With students from over 170 countries, Queen Mary is one of the most internationally diverse institutions in the world.
Our academics are part of a lively and supportive research community.
The outcomes of our research are felt around the world.
Professor Jack Cuzick, FRS FMedSci, FRCP (Hon)
Our Alumni
Our Collaborations
Our Staff
A Russell Group university with a difference
24th
In the world
for quality of research (THE World University Ranking 2024)
5th
In the UK
Queen Mary University of London Mile End Road London E1 4NS +44 (0) 20 7882 5555

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate:
From Accounting to Zoology, we have a range of undergraduate study options.
Our Access and Participation Plan sets out our commitment to widening participation and includes the measures we have put in place around outreach work and support for students from widening participation backgrounds.
Access and participation plans are approved by the Director of Fair Access and Participation at the Office for Students.
You can view a copy of our latest plan on our Queen Mary Access and Particpation Plan page or the Office for Students webpage.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate:
We are delighted to offer a variety of scholarships for highly qualified offer holders joining us in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school:
Check out our Instagram Check out our TikTok

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships:
Situated conveniently between the financial heart of the City of London, the Fintech hub of Canary Wharf and the insurgent start-ups of Tech City in Shoreditch, Queen Mary is uniquely positioned to deliver Degree Apprenticeship programmes to industry with the utmost convenience, minimum disruption and to the highest academic and professional standards.
Delivering to both levy-paying and non-levy paying organisations, we partner with a diverse range of employers including a number of leading international financial services firms and banks, global pharmaceutical firms, national retailers, IT/technology companies and a growing number of SME’s and organisations from the third and charitable sectors.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing:
Queen Mary is one of the UK’s leading universities
This privacy notice explains how Queen Mary University of London processes personal data of individuals who make a call or online enquiry to our Clearing Hotline during its period of operation or otherwise contact us via other means, such as through social media channels, about Clearing enquiries.
Queen Mary is a data controller in terms of Article 4 of the U.K.
General Data Protection Regulation and we process personal data in accordance with our Data Protection Policy .
We will process your personal data because it is necessary to be able to administer any application to study with a view to any future contract between us and, if you are admitted, to perform our obligations under that contract and for our legitimate interests in monitoring our recruitment and other processes and identifying fraudulent applications.
We may also need personal data t o respond to and defend against legal claims.
We record telephone calls received during the Clearing period for the purposes of staff training by reviewing samples of telephone conversations conducted and, only as required, to retrieve a call that is the subject of a dispute, complaint or appeal, with a view to establishing the facts and determining the appropriate response or remedy, which will be in exceptional cases.
We do this in the interests of offering a good service to any caller and in order to assist with resolution of any issues encountered by an enquirer/prospective applicant.
If you object to this, you will need to end the call when you are told that calls may be recorded, or you can contact us after the call to exercise this right, although this may affect our ability to deal with your enquiry/application.
You can also contact us via other, third party, channels, for example Facebook or WhatsApp, but you should understand that this is with your consent and any personal data shared over those channels is shared at your own risk.
Queen Mary only becomes controller of the data when it is received into Queen Mary systems.
Any recorded calls are only used internally and not shared with any third parties unless we are required to do so by law.
If you voluntarily communicate with us using a third-party channel, be aware that we have no control over the use of the data by the third party.
We intend to delete all recorded call information by the end of February 202 4 at the latest.
Online application information will be kept in line with the relevant retention schedule/s.
For further information, including on your rights, please see https://www.qmul.ac.uk/privacy/ and the Data Statement for Clearing 2025 [DOC 25KB] .
Please contact the Data Protection Officer if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/university-days/open-days:
Meet our students, chat with your future teachers, explore our campus , and learn more about our world-class research at one of our upcoming Open Days .
Our next undergraduate open day will take place on:
Saturday 4 October 2025 - on our Mile End Campus.
Join us to find out about our programmes, chat with our students and staff and get a real flavour of student life at Queen Mary.
Book your place
Our next Masters Open Event will take place in October 2025.
Check back here soon to see the confirmed date.
Our Global Engagement team regularly attends in-person, online and hybrid recruitment events to meet with students interested in studying with us and to answer any questions you may have about your application.
Find out more about our International Events

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students:
We run a number of in-person and online events throughout the year.
Come and meet us to learn more about Queen Mary.
Upcoming events
Highly qualified international offer holders may be eligible for scholarships worth up to £12,000 including our Global Talent Scholarships.
Being part of the Queen Mary community doesn’t end with your degree.
Our accomplished and dynamic alumni around the world will welcome you once you;ve graduated.
To find out more information for students from your region, please use the map below to explore.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/life-on-campus:
With over 300 clubs, societies, and sports teams, there’s something for everyone - whether it’s archery, baking, F1, fintech, singing, salsa, or sailing.
Explore our diverse range of societies or simply connect with like-minded people on your course or on campus.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/schools:
Explore the schools and institutes that make up Queen Mary's three faculties, as well as the interdisciplinary institutes bringing together subject experts from across the University.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/foundation-courses:
Our foundation programmes offer an alternative route onto Queen Mary’s undergraduate degrees.
They’re available across the humanities, social sciences, law, science and engineering.
The International Foundation Year and Pre-Masters Programme are designed to help International and EU students progress onto degree-level study.
Click the link below to find out more information.
One-Year Foundation Programmes
Integrated foundation and undergraduate degrees are available in Humanities and Social Sciences (international students only) and Science and Engineering (all students).
See details below.
Viewing 1 - 10 of all 98 courses

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/ai-computer-and-data-science:
Shape the future with AI, Computer & Data Science.
Gain skills, experience & industry insight to become a creative, in-demand artificial intelligence, computer and data expert.
2026
2025

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/biological-and-biomedical-sciences:
Our broad expertise and London partnerships, including with Kew Gardens and the Natural History Museum, give our students unique research and learning opportunities.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/business-and-management:
Queen Mary offers an inspiring education close to the financial heart of London, with teaching rooted in good governance, social justice and sustainability.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/chemical-sciences:
Our programmes are Royal Society of Chemistry accredited and taught by world-class experts in organic, inorganic & computational chemistry.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/comparative-literature:
Join our vibrant Comparative Literature community to explore global literatures, connect with other arts, and expand your literary and cultural horizons.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/creative-arts-media:
Our Creative Arts Media programmes blend practical skills and theory, preparing you to shape the future of film, theatre, and digital media with expert support.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/dentistry:
Learn, train and develop skills in realistic virtual environments, use cutting-edge haptics, and learn from researchers shaping future practice.
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/drama:
Our programmes draw on London’s cultural resources to explore theatre in all forms, developing your practical and theoretical skills in a wider context.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/economics-finance:
Our dynamic curriculum will empower you with skills, knowledge and insights to create solutions and shape the future.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/engineering:
Responsible engineering can change the world.
Study our accredited courses shaped by industry giants like Jaguar, Pfizer and Rolls Royce, and learn from true pioneers.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/english:
Our fresh, inclusive English courses champion diverse voices across cultures, periods, and media—broadening horizons and opening doors to exciting careers.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/environmental-science:
Tackle urgent global issues with real-world projects in biology, ecology, and climate.
Gain the scientific skillset to make a positive impact and help build a sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/film-studies:
Your future in film starts here.
Explore topics like digitisation and postcolonialism, enjoy cinema events.
Benefit from our links to the BFI, film festivals and the film scene in London and beyond.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/geography:
Join our inclusive community to explore the social, political, economic and environmental forces shaping our world.
Gain skills to tackle global challenges and boost your career.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/global-development:
Tackle global challenges like pandemics and inequality with our social science expertise.
Gain valuable interdisciplinary tools to drive positive change worldwide.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/global-health:
Join us as we explore and respond to the impact of pandemics, conflicts and the climate emergency on population health.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/history:
Pursue your passion in our friendly, supportive History community.
Choose from a wealth of modules and develop career-enhancing skills that get you noticed.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/law:
Learn from researchers shapingthe legal world from criminal law to climate justice and beyond.
Study Law with us and benefit from innovative programmes and our professional links.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/liberal-arts:
Liberal Arts lets you shape your path and explore your passions, from film to politics.
Build skills, think across disciplines and benefit from London’s networks.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/linguistics:
Curious about evolution, history and structure of human language?
Our courses' diversity gives you the flexibility to study the topics that excite you.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/materials-science:
Our accredited courses will power you to drive innovation across industries, creating advanced materials for aircraft, medical devices, electronics and much more.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/mathematics:
Shape your future with our flexible Mathematics courses, opening doors to high-paying careers in data, engineering, finance, tech and beyond.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/modern-languages-and-cultures:
Learn French, German, Spanish or Russian from scratch or deepen your existing knowledge.
Explore language, culture and identity through literature, film and the chance to study abroad.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/physics-and-astronomy:
Physics can shape radical solutions needed to tackle global issues.
Be part of the revolution with our thought-provoking course accredited by the UK Institute of Physics.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/politics-and-international-relations:
Study politics, international relations, and sociology from a truly global perspective and learn from our internationally recognised researchers.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/psychology:
Join our leading psychology community and discover the developmental, environmental, genetic, and social factors that shape our responses to the world around us.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about:
Throughout our history, we’ve fostered social justice and improved lives through academic excellence.
And we continue to live and breathe this spirit today, not because it’s simply ‘the right thing to do’ but for what it helps us achieve and the intellectual brilliance it delivers.
Our reformer heritage informs our conviction that great ideas can and should come from anywhere.
It’s an approach that has brought results across the globe, from the communities of east London to the favelas of Rio de Janeiro.
We continue to embrace diversity of thought and opinion in everything we do, in the belief that when views collide, disciplines interact, and perspectives intersect, truly original thought takes form.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/alumni/giving:
With a history dating back to 1785, Queen Mary is a university built upon the foundations of philanthropy, hope and opportunity.
Now a world-class research-led Russell Group university, with a hugely diverse community of students and staff drawn from over 170 countries, our commitment to opening the doors of opportunity remains undimmed.
Queen Mary is the place where social mobility and social justice meets world class research and teaching, where diversity of background and thought is embraced to achieve the previously unthinkable, where a global university joins with its local community to unlock benefits that reverberate across east London and beyond.
Philanthropy has always, and will always, be at the heart of Queen Mary’s work and, as we look ahead and focus on the goals of our Strategy 2030, your support will make the difference.
Thank you.
Please note that all gifts to Queen Mary University of London are received via the Queen Mary University of London Foundation , Registered Charity No.
1113376.
Read our Gift Acceptance Policy

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/welcome:
Queen Mary has over 33,000 students on degree programmes and close to 5,400 members of staff.
We teach and research across a wide range of subjects in the humanities, social sciences, law, medicine and dentistry, and science and engineering.
We are based in a creative and culturally diverse area of east London and our site in Mile End is one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
for quality of research (THE World University Ranking 2025)
for quality of research (THE World University Rankings 2025)
of research assessed as internationally excellent or world-leading (REF 2021)
Queen Mary has made a strategic commitment to the highest quality of research.
We have invested in this principle by systematically recruiting the best academics in their disciplines from around the world.
The results of the most recent national assessment of research – the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) – have confirmed our place in the very top group of research-led universities in the UK.
We were ranked 5th in the UK for quality of research ( THE World University Ranking 2024) with 92% of our research assessed as internationally excellent or world-leading .
Queen Mary is one of 24 leading UK universities represented by the Russell Group, that are committed to maintaining the very best research, an outstanding teaching and learning experience, excellent graduate employability and unrivalled links with business and the public sector.
Queen Mary offers outstanding students a stimulating, supportive and high-quality learning experience, with access to state-of-the-art facilities and teaching inspired by our world-leading research.
The QS World Universities Rankings place us in the top 9% of universities worldwide, and our Dentistry, English and Law courses are ranked in the global top 50 ( QS Subject rankings 2022 ).
Learn more about the Queen Mary Education Approach .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/calendar:
*Please note that Masters students do not have a summer vacation.
Please see the section below for Masters students for further details.
Dates given below are provisional.
You can also access semester dates for previous years .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/history:
Queen Mary has a long, proud and distinctive history built on four historic institutions stretching back to 1785 and beyond.
Our founding institutions are: St Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical College, London Hospital Medical College, Westfield College and Queen Mary College .
All four institutions were founded to improve the lives of people with less privilege.
St Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical College and The London Hospital Medical College were established to improve the health of the local communities in the City and east London.
Westfield College and Queen Mary College provided education to women and working class communities in the East End, respectively, at a time when these groups faced extreme barriers to education.
1123
1740
1785
1791
1834
1843
1850
1881
1882
1887
1896
1905
1911
1916
1934
1937
1965
1968
1980
1988
1989
1992
1995
2000
2004
2005
2009
2012

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/alumni:
Update your contact details to stay in touch
Request graduate documents such as academic transcripts
Buy an Alumni Extra Card to continue library access

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/community:
Queen Mary’s roots in the community date back to the founding of the People’s Palace in 1887.
This historic venue was unique in its community offering, providing a venue where people could enjoy dance classes, organ recitals, donkey shows and art exhibitions.
Fast-forward to the present day and we remain an anchor institution in East London.
We are proud of our ongoing commitment to our local communities.
This commitment is expressed in a number of ways — which you can learn more about on this page — from local partnerships to collaborative projects.
Update on the Festival of Communities and Next Steps for Local Community Engagement

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/global:
Ranked 24th in the world according to the THE World University Ranking 2025, our home is in London, as well as a presence in Malta, and over 5,000 students studying on our joint programmes with partners in China, our reach extends far beyond the UK capital.
Find out more by reading our brochure which provides a summary of our work around the world - Queen Mary Global brochure [PDF 11,124KB] Queen Mary Global brochure [PDF 11,124KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures:
Queen Mary University of London is a leading research-intensive university with a difference – one that opens the doors of opportunity to anyone with the potential to succeed.
It is a unique place of world-leading research and unparalleled diversity and inclusivity, that lives and breathes its history and heritage and is embedded in the communities it serves.
1 This figure is based on the number of staff who hold a current permanent contract with Queen Mary University of London.
Please note, it does not include staff on temporary contracts or student ambassadors.
This figure is subject to change and will be updated periodically.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/foi:
The Freedom of Information Act aims to promote greater openness about the way public authorities operate and gives members of the public a right to access information held by public authorities.
Queen Mary aims to comply fully with its obligations under the Act and to ensure that the service we provide for those wishing to gain access to information is simple, efficient and effective.
As part of our obligations under the Act, we maintain a publication scheme – a gateway to the publications and information that we make available to members of the public.
The scheme is broken down into different categories of information:
Our publication scheme follows the Model Publication Scheme for Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Due to frequent requests, we have also published some information about Mental Health at Queen Mary [PDF 330KB] .
If you wish to make a request for information that is not available under the publication scheme, please email foi-enquiries@qmul.ac.uk or write to the following address:
Information Governance Team Directorate of Governance and Legal Services Queen Mary University of London Mile End Road London E1 4NS
How to make your request:
Please note:
How long will it take for you to respond?
We will respond to your request within 20 working days of receipt.
Will I have to pay?
In some instances we may apply a small charge (e.g.
for photocopying or scanning.
Please contact us for up-to-date fee scales).
Not satisfied?
If you are unhappy with the way your request has been handled, you can request a review.
We will send details about how to do this in our reply to your request.
Other types of information request
If you ask for information about yourself, then your request will be handled under data protection legislation.
Requests may also be made under the Environmental Information Regulations.
Our partners Queen Mary works in partnership with a number of other bodies.
In particular, we are part of the University of London and our Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry has close ties with the Barts Health NHS Trust.
The publication schemes of partner organisations may also be relevant.
Information for Queen Mary staff For advice on the Freedom of Information Act generally and on responding to requests, see: foi.qmul.ac.uk
See also: Data Protection page

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/whoswho:
Read memories of and tributes to Professor Peter McOwan , including the eulogy delivered by President and Principal Professor Colin Bailey at his funeral.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
We are committed to embedding the principles of sustainable development across all areas of our operation and academic activities.
Our Sustainability Action Statement (2025/26–2027/28) and Environmental Policy (2025) were adopted by our Senior Executive Team as part of our immediate response to these global environmental risks and commitment to embed good environmental practices across all areas of our operation.
Specifically, our six-year 30% carbon reduction target against our 2018/19 baseline is one of our immediate responses to the global risks associated with climate change.
Our long-term environmental priorities are to continue to improve our environmental performance and play an active role in supporting the delivery of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
We will also continue to engage with all relevant stakeholders and like-minded organisations to make our planet a better place to live.
We are also committed to the continual improvement of our environmental performance through our ISO 14001-certified Environmental Management System which includes all functions, processes, and operations delivered from our UK campuses.
The Sustainability Team, with the support the Director of Estates and Facilities (Ian McManus), the Vice Principal Policy, Strategic Partnerships (Dr Philippa Lloyd) and all relevant stakeholders across Queen Mary, will continue to actively explore opportunities to integrate the principles of sustainable development into all areas of our operations as well as our academic offerings.
If you could not find the information you are looking for, or if you have a specific question for the QMUL Sustainability team, please get in touch by email sustainability@qmul.ac.uk
In addition, you can get regular updates by following QMUL Sustainability on Instagram .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/arts-and-culture:
Arts & Culture at Queen Mary University of London showcases the university's strength as a centre of excellence in arts, culture and public engagement, with a special focus on diversity and inclusion
We believe that the arts and culture help us to communicate our research, deliver innovative teaching, promoting important social values and stimulating economic prosperity.
They are integral to who we are at Queen Mary and how we engage with our community.
Visit the Arts & Culture website

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/the-medical-college-of-saint-bartholomews-hospital-trust:
The Medical College of Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital Trust promotes the advancement of all aspects of medical and dental education and research at the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London.
More information about the Trust, including a list of the current Trustees, can be found on the Trust’s website .
The Trust provides ongoing support for medical and dental education and research through grant funding.
The Trustees work closely with the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry when assessing applications for funding and to ensure that its funds are being used in accordance with the conditions of the grants and represent the best use of Trust resources.
Applications for grant-funding should generally be made through and with the support of the Faculty.
The Trust currently awards the following scholarships to undergraduate students:
Nominations of students for these awards is via the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
The Trust also supports the Dean’s Benevolence Fund for the relief of student hardship.
In most years the Trust awards a number of PhD studentships for clinically qualified applicants for up to three years.
The studentships cover the home/EU PhD registration fees, the student's salary at current MRC rates and consumables up to £6,000 per year.
The Trust advertises jointly with the Faculty for candidates annually, when projects become available and runs an application and interview process with the Faculty to award the individual studentships.
The Trust also occasionally awards non-clinical PhD Studentships.
The Trust has the discretion to award up to £50,000 per annum in ad hoc funding to support worthwhile research and educational projects at the Faculty which require emergency or short-term funding, with an individual award limit of £10,000.
Further information can be found on the Trust’s website .
The Trust also funds a variety of sizeable initiatives to promote and support medical and dental education and research at the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
For example, the Trust is funding the Chair (and other ancillary administrative positions to support the Chair) of the newly formed Institute of Population Health Sciences for five years and provides ongoing support for the Student Explainer programme at the Centre of the Cell.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
Social justice has been a cornerstone of Queen Mary from the establishment of our four historical institutions to the present day , and it is at the heart of our 2030 Strategy .
Our mission is to create a truly inclusive environment, building on our cherished cultural diversity, where students and staff flourish, reach their full potential and are proud to be part of the University.
This will support us in our aim of becoming the most inclusive university of its kind, anywhere.
We are proud of what we have already achieved including:
While we celebrate these accomplishments and the work undertaken by members of the University community, we recognise that over the next 10 years we must ensure we embed EDI throughout all aspects of our University.
Supporting the strategic delivery of our ambitious aim is the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group (EDISG) chaired by our new Vice Principal (People, Culture and Inclusion).
of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/volunteering:
There are many ways to support your local communities through volunteering, giving your time and skills to help local people and places.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/education:
Queen Mary is dedicated to opening the doors of opportunity and unleashing the potential of every student, educator and academic in our institution.
Our approach to education is co-created with our diverse staff and student body, enhanced by our world-leading research and significant investment in our learning environment.
Our students are drawn from over 170 nationalities
of our domestic students and 46% are first in their family into higher education
Our educators teach the brightest and best students from across the world and from all walks of life.
At Queen Mary, we tailor our support to the unique needs of each student and educator, to nurture potential and help our community achieve more than they thought possible.
Our educators are world-class academics and leaders in their chosen field – students are taught by the people who wrote the textbooks.
Furthermore, we equip our educators with the tools and training they need to meet the needs of diverse learners, supporting students to achieve their full potential and become leaders themselves.
Using augmented reality, we provide enhanced opportunity for students to grow their skills in practical chemistry, helping to level the playing field for those students with less experience of a lab setting.
Students and educators are co-creators in their shared learning environment.
We continually work together to ensure that the curriculum, pedagogic approaches, academic advice, assessment and feedback effectively support the teaching and learner journey.
We are using technology to transform how medicine is taught.
Our innovative blended-learning MBBS uses a combination of face-to-face, online and digital learning to train the next generation of healthcare professionals.
Whichever career our students aspire to, we provide individualised, coherent career management support for our students and graduates through our ‘Careers and Enterprise’ team.
We were the first Russell Group institution to offer degree apprenticeship programmes and our degree apprenticeship in social change is a world first.
Find out how our Parliamentary Studies module, developed in collaboration with the Houses of Parliament, and our Parliamentary Placement module are giving our students opportunities for a political career.
A world-class digital and physical learning environment for our students and educators is crucial for our shared success.
We work with our staff and students in the implementation of technological advances, continually focusing on enhancing the teaching and learner journey.
Our award winning Digital Education Studio is making medical education more accessible to future doctors across the UK and around the world, especially for those students most often under-represented in higher education.
Queen Mary recognised its 2023/24 winners of the Education Excellence Awards and President and Principal’s Prizes.
The Queen Mary Academy supports the development of education and research, working with staff and students to enhance their practice in teaching, learning, scholarship, research, and academic leadership.
Our Student Recruitment and Widening Participation team provides an extensive range of projects and activities for teachers, advisers, staff in IAG roles, tutors, curriculum staff, parents/carers and students.
We provide students with support and resources on topics ranging from improving their CV, getting a part-time job to securing an internship or graduate scheme.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/queenmaryacademy/the-queen-mary-education-approach:
Queen Mary University of London's 2030 Strategy sets out our ambition to deliver "an outstanding, inclusive, world-class education and student experience, co-created with our diverse student body, enhanced by our world-leading research and latest technological developments".
'Our Approach to Education: Opening the doors of opportunity' describes how we are working to achieve this ambition.
In this publication, you will find out what is distinctive about our approach including an explanation of our four Pillars of excellence, how we are bringing our Approach to life through our five Interrelated Components, and the language we use to help ensure consistency and understanding.
Queen Mary was rated Silver in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research:
Our mission-driven research priorities tackle the world’s most urgent challenges.
Queen Mary is pioneering new ways of doing research across disciplines and working with our partners to ensure our innovation lands where it is needed most.
Our reputation attracts some of the best scholars in the world.
Find out how you could join us as a postgraduate researcher.
Research degrees
J Iwan Jones
Giulia Carabelli
Christopher Chen
Richard Buggs
The new facility will advance drug testing, reduce reliance on animal research, and train the next generation of scientists.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/strategy-support-and-guidance:
Learn about the strategy that underpins our research; find links to all our policies on research and ethics; see what financial, academic and pastoral support we offer and read about our contribution to the Research Excellence Framework.
It’s a legal requirement in the UK that all medicines must be tested in at least two species of live animals before they are used in humans, meaning that animal research must form a small part of our work.
Read more about animal research at Queen Mary , the regulation and ethics in place, and how we look after our animals.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/explore-our-research/interdisciplinary-research/research-highways:
Diverse perspectives, unique expertise: Queen Mary’s research delivers real-world impact and changes lives.
Explore our Research Highways.
Sign up to learn more about our latest research, news, events and opinions, as well as opportunities to get involved and support Queen Mary.
By working together across diverse fields and sectors, we are able to address real-world challenges and make a meaningful difference in society.
Collaborate with us

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/featured-research:
Their work has a far-reaching impact, improving health, social and living conditions, advancing technology and innovation, and influencing public policy and debate.
Rachael Mulheron
Hamit Soyel
Robert Hill
Josh Reiss
Pedro CL Souza
Kate Spencer
Madusha Peiris
Chie Adachi
Maggie Inchley
Charlotte Salmi
Andrew Leitch
Andrew Prendergast
Daragh Murray
Dr Elke Schwarz
Tim Bale
Dr Charlotta Salmi
Tatjana Crnogorac-Jurcevic
Tim Brown
Hemant Kocher
Dr Sydney Calkin
Yang Hao
David van Heel
Professor Peter Szlosarek
Dr Pedro CL Souza
Professor Andrew Prendergast
Dr Joe Briscoe
Emir Demirel
Simon Dixon
Dr Caroline Roney
Professor Iwan Jones
Liam Campling
Professor Sir Mark Caulfield
Christopher Millard
Professor Devyani Sharma
Dr Karin Hing
Dr Maggie Inchley
Professor Julia Hörnle
Professor Farida Fortune
Professor Graham Foster
Professor Kostya Trachenko
Professor Adrian Smith
Professor Sean Gong
Professor Pat Healey
Professor Josh Reiss
Professor Alison Blunt
Dr.
Thomas Asbridge
Professor Karim Brohi
Professor Thomas Dixon
Professor Steven Eastwood
Professor Kate Spencer
Dr Guillem Anglada-Escudé
Professor Christophe Eizaguirre
Professor Ama Johal
Professor Lou Metherell
Professor Jonathan Grigg
Dr Vanessa Muirhead
Professor Graham MacGregor CBE
Professor Richard Buggs
Professor Liam Campling
Professor Rachael Mulheron
Professor Rosa María Lastra
Professor Lars Chittka
Dr Sevasti Foka
Professor Yong-Jie Lu
Dr Chris Faulkes
Professor Alan Hildrew

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-resources:
We continually invest in our state-of-the art resources and facilities.
These allow our researchers to break new ground, and lead to fruitful collaborations with a wide range of business and academic partners.
Many of these resources are available for hire, allowing our collaborators access to highly trained staff and equipment.
These research facilities can be booked through iLab .
Queen Mary also contributes to the RCUK-backed equipment sharing database equipment.data .
The list below is a sample of what we can offer our students, staff and external partners.
If you’d like to know more about our research facilities, please visit our A-Z listing .
Queen Mary’s AMIS (Advanced Molecular Imaging Services) unites our dedicated facilities across the Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Biological and Chemical Sciences, and Science and Engineering.
Our highly experienced core facility staff support multi-disciplinary users in cutting-edge research, positioning AMIS as a leading imaging centre in the UK and the world.
Explore our Advanced Molecular Imaging Services
The CRoss-InstitutE Advanced Tissue Engineering (CREATE) Lab is an advanced biofabrication facility that supports the development of next-generation in vitro models of human tissues and diseases.
The Lab houses state-of-the-art equipment for 3D bioprinting, microfabrication, and device analysis and is available to Queen Mary researchers and external partners.
Explore the CREATE Lab
Supporting users with everything from high throughput screening of multi well plates to multiplex slides scanning, analysis and bioinformatics.
Explore the Phenotypic Screening Facility
The CRUK Barts Centre Mass Spectrometry Facility provides proteomics and metabolomics flux analysis using state-of-the-art instruments and sample preparation methods.
The service supports research projects by providing help with experimental design, sample preparation and data analysis.
Explore the CRUK Barts Centre Mass Spectrometry Facility
The Lipid Mediator Unit is a Queen Mary core service.
It provides the instrumentation and expertise to investigate endogenous protective mechanisms that may become disrupted by disease, with a focus on bioactive lipid mediators.
Explore the Lipid Mediator Unit
Develop and perform work in our versatile, professionally equipped spaces:
Explore English and Drama facilities
Production and post-production equipment includes:
Explore film making facilities
We explore a range of environmental factors and processes including the concentrations of pollutants, greenhouse gases and river processes.
Researchers will have access to a wide range of resources, including our laboratories for analysis, water chemistry and spectroscopy.
We have equipment for gas chromatography, microtomography (CT) and a geo-spatial modelling suite.
Explore Geography facilities
We provide expertise and services in the isolation, manipulation and analysis of ultra-high molecular weight (uHMW) DNA that range from 150kb to over 2Mb.
We have expertise in working with a wide range of tissue types from diverse organisms, from trees and insects to bacteria and mammals.
Our equipment includes:
Explore Genomics facilities
We have built an extensive antenna test range and electromagnetic characterisation facility, which now virtually covers the whole RF to THz frequency bands, from 700 MHz to 325 GHz.
In addition to this, time domain spectrometry at THz frequencies, between 0.1 to 3 THz, is also available.
Explore Antenna facilities
The Particle Physics Research Centre has also several tools at its disposal for detector R&D, as well as computing facilities for data analysis, and video-conferencing capabilities.
Explore Particle Physics facilities
The cell and tissue engineering laboratories provide extensive facilities for tissue engineering, mechanobiology and biomechanics research and teaching.
The facilities include:
Explore Cell Tissue Engineering facilities
The laboratory of the Centre for Advanced Robotics (ARQ) is equipped with:
Explore Robotics facilities

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/publications:
The considerable body of work from our world-class researchers across all three faculties is represented in this extensive archive.
Where available, full text is provided – either on the institutional repository Queen Mary Research Online – or you can access the published version via the publication’s unique Digital Object Identifier (DOI).
Queen Mary Research Publications are managed by the Repository and Research Information Team .
For all feedback and queries, contact the Research Support Team: openresearch@qmul.ac.uk
Staff Directory (A–Z by Last Name):
Search by last name:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research:
Queen Mary University of London is one of the UK’s top research universities, with the vast majority – 92% – of our research submissions assessed as internationally excellent or world-leading (REF 2021).
Explore our PhD programmes and apply using our online application forms.
When you join Queen Mary, you become part of a thriving community of 1,800 PhD students.
You will have access to the Graduate Centre, numerous sources of funding, and researcher development training too, all supported by our dedicated Doctoral College team.
Our home in London makes Queen Mary an ideal place to conduct your research, surrounded by some of the world’s best museums, libraries, institutes, and archives.
Please use the search tool below, powered by FindaPhD.com, to search our advertised PhD projects.
Not all opportunities are advertised here.
Please check the departmental PhD pages for full instructions and project lists.
Find out more about the PhD application process at Queen Mary.
Those with external funding are welcome to discuss projects and vacancies directly with the academic Schools.
Browse the list of contacts for your subject area .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/research-impact:
We continually build our capacity to develop the impact of our research for social, environmental, health, cultural, and economic benefits.
Impact is a core part of research activity at Queen Mary and supporting our capacity to create impact from our research is a shared responsibility across academic and professional services staff.
Get in touch with the Queen Mary impact team and find out how we can support your impact activity.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
Queen Mary uses the Royal Society definition of research culture, in common with many other universities:
“ Research culture encompasses the behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes and norms of our research communities.
It influences researchers' career paths and determines the way that research is conducted and communicated.
”
As a key element of our Strategy 2030, we are fostering a culture at Queen Mary where impact, innovation and engagement are an innate part of all research activity.
Queen Mary has a central Research Culture team who are based in Research Services and can be contacted on researchculture@qmul.ac.uk .
Please do get in touch for any advice.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/faculties-and-research-centres/humanities-and-social-sciences:
Our world-class research across the Humanities and Social Sciences, as well as our research-led creative practices and public engagement, foster social justice and improve lives.
Professor Galin Tihanov FBA, MAE
Research in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences seeks to broaden the frontiers of knowledge and enhance understanding of the world in which we live.
Several of our disciplines are ranked very highly in the UK’s periodic assessment of research quality.
We have a successful record of winning prestigious research funding from the UKRI , the European Union, the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, the Wellcome Trust and many others.
Schools and departments
Faculty Research Centres

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/research/faculties-and-research-centres/medicine-and-dentistry:
We aim to achieve the highest standards in research and to make a real impact on health-related problems for the benefit of local and global populations.
Professor Amrita Ahluwalia
Our internationally recognised research transforms the lives of people around the world – and is grounded in our local community.
We solve global medical problems and improve the health of millions.
Institutes and research centres
Research themes
Our research is world famous.
From the laboratory bench to public health initiatives, we’re at the forefront of innovation in medical research, finding solutions to some of the world’s greatest health challenges.
Visit the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry webpage for more information about the faculty
Our multidisciplinary approach is fundamental to this.
Many of our internationally recognised projects are the result of collaborations between our distinguished institutes and talented researchers across Queen Mary.
We capitalise on our strengths - for example in genomics, functional genomics and post-genomic phenotyping - and harness knowledge and scholarships for creation and innovation in cancer, cardiovascular, inflammation and trauma and population health.
The importance of our work is also recognised in our research income: we attract significant funding from key institutions, such as Cancer Research UK and National Institute for Health Research, the largest national clinical research funder in Europe.
In the latest QS World University Rankings, Dentistry was ranked first and Medicine was ranked fourth in the world, for most highly cited medical research.
We work with academic (both with and without Queen Mary affiliation) and corporate partners, on a not-for-profit basis, to achieve their genomics research goals.
We provide specialist services in a range of areas such as single cell genomics, RNA sequencing, DNA methylation profiling and targeted DNA sequencing.
Explore the Genome Centre
Researchers from Queen Mary University of London, funded by Barts Charity, have launched a new clinical trial to investigate whether taking vitamin D could protect people from COVID-19.
Queen Mary University of London and Barts Health NHS Trust , as part of their Barts Life Sciences initiative, have started a programme of Covid-19 research across Barts Health hospitals, including NHS Nightingale Hospital London.
East London Genes & Health is a study of 100,000 people of Bangladeshi and Pakistani ethnicity, helping to identify the genetic determinants for specific illnesses affecting these communities.
A study has shown that breast screening women aged 40-49 reduces deaths, with minimal increased overdiagnosis.
The findings have implications for screening programmes internationally that only offer mammography to women aged 50–70.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2025/medicine-and-dentistry/fmd/breakthrough-life-extending-treatment-for-advanced-bladder-cancer-available-on-nhs-.html:
The new combination treatment offers hope to thousands of people living with advanced urothelial cancer.
The clinical trials, led by Queen Mary University of London’s Professor Tom Powles, showed overall survival rates were almost twice as long with this new treatment compared to the current standard treatment.
Listen to Professor Powles speak on this morning's BBC Today Programme about the new treatment (interview at 6:44am).
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), which assesses the safety and effectiveness of new medicines for use in the NHS, has recommended a that new first-line treatment for adults with advanced bladder cancer should be made available on the NHS.
The news offers hope to those living with the disease – life expectancy for people with advanced (also called metastatic) bladder cancer is just one year and the first-line treatment for the disease, chemotherapy, hasn’t changed in 40 years – until today.
The transformative treatment – a combination of two immunotherapy drugs, enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab – was originally tested in a clinical trial led by Tom Powles, Professor of Genitourinary Oncology at Queen Mary University of London and the Director of the Barts Cancer Centre at St.
Bartholomew's Hospital.
The trial found that people given the treatment  lived nearly twice as long compared to those given standard chemotherapy.
Results also showed stopped the disease from getting worse.
Around 30% of people on the trial achieved a complete remission following treatment with enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab, meaning all detectable signs of the disease had disappeared.
After the breakthrough results were announced, Professor Powles was named in Nature’s list of 10 most influential people and in Time magazine’s 100 most influential people in global health in 2024.
Speaking on the news that the results of this trial have now led to NICE recommending the combination treatment be made available on the NHS, Professor Tom Powles said:
"The approval of enfortumab vedotin with pembrolizumab is a landmark moment in the care of advanced bladder cancer - the first of its kind in 40 years.
Our clinical trial results showed unprecedented improvements in survival, and thanks to the contribution of patients and their families to those studies, this treatment is now available on the NHS.
It is a real privilege to see research translated into meaningful change for patients across the country."
The new treatment is given as an infusion in a clinic or hospital.
Enfortumab vedotin targets a protein called nectin-4 that is abundant on bladder cancer cells.
The partner drug, pembrolizumab, helps the immune system recognise and attack cancer cells.
The new treatment will be recommended for adults with untreated metastastic urothelial cancer that can’t be removed by surgery, but who are eligible for platinum-containing chemotherapy.
For media information, contact:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/subjects:
To learn more about our PhD programmes select a research degree subject from the list below.
This is also where you'll find the online application forms.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/newstudents:
You've read the prospectus, done hours of research and made the most of Welcome Week – but what can you expect from your first year with us?
Everything you need to know about starting at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/tuitionfees/feesfinance:
At Queen Mary, we recognise that studying at a top-rated University is a major undertaking both personally and financially.
This section outlines the various funding opportunities which may cover all or part of the full cost of your studies.
We are delighted to offer Queen Mary Global Talent Scholarships to high-achieving international students.
Awards for undergraduate students starting in September 2025 are worth up to £12,000.
Awards for postgraduate (masters) students starting in September 2025 are worth £5,000.
You can find the full terms and conditions on the links below:
Queen Mary University of London is proud to introduce the President’s Global Scholarships , offering £10,000 to highly qualified postgraduate taught offer holders joining us in September 2025 .
Applications for 2025 entry are now closed.
You can find the full terms and conditions on the link below:
Our specialist advisors in the Queen Mary Advice and Counselling Service provide excellent and detailed guidance on planning your finances before starting your study.
You can read their guidance here .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/explore-our-campuses/campustours:
Discover our state-of-the-art facilities and get a first-hand glimpse of what it's like to live and study at London's only campus-based Russell Group University.
Please note that while the Mile End tour is conducted in-person, the Whitechapel tour is available virtually.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/openday:
We offer hundreds of undergraduate programmes to cater for a variety of interests and career aspirations.
Use our course finder below to find your perfect programme.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2025/medicine-and-dentistry/fmd/kidneygenafrica-a-pan-african-partnership-to-deliver-research-and-training-excellence-in-genomics-of-kidney-disease.html:
Queen Mary's PHURI is a founder member of a new pan-African partnership which aims to deliver research and training excellence in genomics of kidney disease.
In a comment published in Nature Genetics today , the team outlines the urgent need for such a consortium in Africa and the framework they have developed to make it a reality.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) represents a major global health concern, contributing significantly to both morbidity and mortality, with over 850 million individuals estimated to be affected by some form of kidney disease globally, most of whom reside in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).
Its impact in Africa has been difficult to quantify due to inconsistencies in data collection across countries, amongst other factors.
In addition, standard the diagnostic test based on creatinine-based estimates of glomerular filtration rate (eGFRcr)- has been shown to miss up to 20% of CKD in African populations.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have highlighted ancestry-specific influences, including high-risk APOL1 variants and the high prevalence of sickle cell disease, which could be essential to refine diagnostic tools and improve CKD detection in African populations.
This is particularly relevant in settings where patients often present late, and dialysis, which is the standard of care in high-income countries, is either unavailable or prohibitively expensive.
Therefore, methods that enable early detection, especially among high-risk groups, represents cost-effective, public health strategies to slow disease progression and reduce premature death.
Historically, African populations have been under-represented in global genomic datasets - despite its vast genetic variety.
To address this inequity, KidneyGenAfrica has been established as a way to build research capacity in the region and to advance CKD research through large-scale data analyses.
It will unite existing research cohorts and networks to harmonise data, conduct large-scale genomic analyses and uncover ancestry-specific risk factors for kidney disease.
In addition, KidneyGenAfrica will build sustainable local expertise, by providing training, funding and collaborative networks for African academics.
Professor Segun Fatumo, Professor and Chair of Genomic Diversity in Queen Mary's Precision Healthcare University Research Institute (PHURI), a co-director in the new partnership, said: 'KidneyGenAfrica will build long-term partnerships to maximise existing resources and ensure benefits for African populations.
It will also build capacity by targeting early-career African researchers through PhD and postdoctoral training programmes and train them in genetic epidemiology and computational genomics.’ He went on: ‘It's our opportunity to ensure that African data and African expertise enriches global efforts to understand CKD.'
KidneyGenAfrica is made up of partners  from Malawi, Uganda, Nigeria, and South Africa and collaborators globally from the US, Europe and Africa.
It is funded by the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) and Medical Research Council (MRC).
More details of the partnership can be found at KidneyGenAfrica.org

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2025/science-and-engineering/se/people-with-sensitive-personalities-more-likely-to-experience-mental-health-problems.html:
First ever systematic review and meta-analysis of its kind shows highly sensitive people are more likely to experience mental health problems.
New research, led by Queen Mary University of London and published on Saturday 16th August in the journal Clinical Psychological Science , has revealed highly sensitive people (HSP) are more likely to experience mental health problems compared to individuals who are less sensitive.
The meta-analysis of 33 studies, the first of its kind, looked at the relationship between sensitivity and common mental health problems such as depression and anxiety.
Researchers found there was a significant, positive relationship between the two, concluding that highly sensitive people are more likely to experience depression and anxiety compared to those who are less sensitive.
In the study, sensitivity was defined as a personality trait that reflects people’s capacity to perceive and process environmental stimuli such as bright lights, subtle changes in the environment and other peoples’ moods.
Often overlooked in mental health studies and clinical practice, which tend to focus on neuroticism and its association with mental health conditions, this research shows that understanding a person’s sensitivity level is important and can have therapeutic implications.
People with sensitive personality traits may benefit from different treatment plans
For example, people with more sensitive personality traits may be more likely to benefit from treatment plans which involve techniques such as applied relaxation and mindfulness, which can also prevent relapse.
Tom Falkenstein, a psychotherapist and a PhD student at Queen Mary University of London, said: “This is the most extensive systematic review on sensitivity and mental health in adolescents and adults to date, and is the first ever meta-analysis on the topic to estimate the impact of this relationship.
We found positive and moderate correlations between sensitivity and various mental health problems such as depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, agoraphobia and avoidant personality disorder.
Our findings suggest that sensitivity should be considered more in clinical practice which could be used to improve diagnosis of conditions.”
“In addition, our findings could help improve treatment for these individuals.
Around 31% of the general population are considered highly sensitive, and, as our findings show, are more likely to respond better to some psychological interventions than less sensitive individuals.
Therefore, sensitivity should be considered when thinking about treatment plans for mental health conditions.
Our work shows it is crucial that the awareness of sensitivity is improved among mental health care professionals, so clinicians and practitioners can recognise the trait in their patients, and tailor treatment to their sensitivity.”
Michael Pluess, Professor in Developmental Psychology at University of Surrey and Visiting Professor at Queen Mary University of London said: “This is the first meta-analysis providing robust evidence that highly sensitive people are more prone to common mental health problems.
However, it is important to remember that highly sensitive people are also more responsive to positive experiences, including psychological treatment.
Our results provide further evidence that sensitive people are more affected by both negative and positive experiences and that the quality of their environment is particularly important for their well-being.”
The systematic review and meta analysis of 33 studies was carried out by an academic team from several universities including Queen Mary University and the University of Surrey.
The authors include Tom Falkenstein (Queen Mary University of London), Luke Satori (Kings College London), Margherita Malanchini, (Queen Mary University of London) Kristin Hadfield (Trinity College Dublin) and Michael Pluess (University of Surrey)
Tom Falkenstein is also the author of The Highly Sensitive Man .
Read the study.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2025/queen-mary-news/pr/queen-mary-recognised-as-top-global-university.html:
Queen Mary University of London has climbed 35 places in two years in the QS World University Rankings , firmly establishing its recognition as one of the top universities in the world.
Updated 14 August 2025
Queen Mary University of London is ranked 15 th overall and 12 th for graduate salaries in the UK, according to the Daily Mail’s 2026 British Universities guide , improving its position from last year.
The rankings in this guide, which notes that ‘of all the elite Russell Group universities, Queen Mary both walks the walk and talks the talk when it comes to social inclusion’, come on the heels of other ranking success for the University in 2025.
In the QS World University Rankings , Queen Mary has climbed 35 places in two years, firmly establishing its recognition as one of the top universities in the world.
Queen Mary is now ranked 110 in the world in the 2026 QS league table .
Following a 25-place increase in 2025, Queen Mary is the fastest rising research-intensive, UK Russell Group university over the past two years.
The University is also a top 100 global university and top 10 UK university for the second year running, according to U.S.
News & World Report Best Global Universities rankings .
Professor Colin Bailey CBE, President and Principal of Queen Mary, said: “I am incredibly proud that Queen Mary’s excellence has again been recognised in this year’s QS and U.S.
News & World rankings.
“Remaining in the top 100 globally and top 10 in the UK in the U.S.
World rankings for a second year, coupled with our trajectory in the QS over the last two years, reflects a growing recognition of our standing as a world-leading research-intensive university.”
The QS World Rankings feature 1,501 institutions across 106 locations, including 90 in United Kingdom.
Read more about Queen Mary’s research .
Find out more about the QS World University Rankings , U.S News & World Global Universities Rankings and Daily Mail rankings .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2025/science-and-engineering/se/queen-mary-researcher-awarded-prestigious-simons-foundation-grant-for-black-hole-research-.html:
Queen Mary University of London is set to play a pivotal role in a groundbreaking international collaboration aimed at unravelling the mysteries of black holes and strong gravity, thanks to a significant grant from the Simons Foundation.
Dr Katy Clough has been named Principal Investigator (PI) in the newly established $8-million Simons Collaboration on Black Holes and Strong Gravity.
This highly competitive grant will bring together 12 co-PIs from institutions worldwide, alongside a wider network of experts, to develop a robust theoretical framework for deciphering secrets encoded in gravitational wave (GW) data.
Queen Mary Professor Pau Figueras and postdoctoral researcher Aron Kovacs will also act as associates in the grant’s wider network of collaborators, underscoring the university's key role in cutting-edge gravitational research.
Gravitational wave science offers an unparalleled opportunity to probe the physics of strong gravity – the extreme conditions found in the vicinity of black holes.
With planned upgrades to the Advanced LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA gravitational wave detectors set to double their sensitivity in the coming years, the volume of the universe accessible through GW data will increase by a factor of eight.
This advancement ushers in an era of precision gravitational wave physics, demanding a deeper understanding of non-linear gravity.
"It’s a great honour to be part of this international collaboration and to be recognised by the Simons Foundation," Dr Clough commented.
"These grants are very competitive, and I'm proud that Queen Mary is playing a key role.
This is an exciting moment in the study of non-linear strong gravity, and we are looking forward to contributing to the discoveries that await us."
The collaboration's ambitious goals include developing the theoretical framework necessary to demystify persistent astrophysical puzzles and shedding new light on the fundamental nature of black holes.
This work could lead to breakthroughs in understanding the universe’s matter-antimatter asymmetry, the nature of dark matter, and physics that extends beyond Einstein’s theory of general relativity.
The research will involve analytical calculations, extensive computer simulations, and rigorous testing against observational data.
The ultimate aim is to develop sophisticated models of “smoking-gun signals” that will enable scientists to decipher the profound secrets hidden within gravitational wave observations.
Queen Mary will play a leading role in the numerical simulations of gravity that are required to build and test these models.
Dr Clough, Professor Figueras and Dr Kovacs are members of the Centre for Geometry, Analysis and Gravitation in the School of Mathematical Sciences, and experts in the formulation of theories beyond Einstein gravity and their study using computer simulations – the field of numerical relativity.
They have used some of the largest supercomputers in Europe to study extreme dynamical gravity as a way of shedding light on problems in fundamental physics and play a lead role in the UK-based GRTL Collaboration that develops software to test the limits of Einstein’s theory of General Relativity.
The Simons Collaboration aims to bridge disciplines, drawing on expertise in theoretical physics, mathematics, numerical computation, AI-assisted data analysis, and gravitational wave observation.
Professor Nicolás Yunes of Illinois Physics, who will serve as the collaboration’s director, emphasised the timely nature of this multidisciplinary effort.
"We’re moving toward the era of precision gravitational wave physics," he notes.
"This new era must be accompanied by a multidisciplinary effort to deepen our understanding of non-linear gravity.
Otherwise, we will miss secrets encoded in the gravitational wave data, or worse, misinterpret our observations and be led in the wrong direction.”
The Simons Foundation grant will support postdoctoral and graduate-student positions, foster travel and collaboration between member institutions, and facilitate numerous meetings throughout the year.
Queen Mary’s involvement ensures its continued prominence in the global effort to understand the most extreme astrophysical environments in the universe, and the fundamental nature of strong gravity.
The 12 co-PIs include Nicolás Yunes at Illinois, Emanuele Berti of Johns Hopkins University, Vitor Cardoso of the Niels Bohr Institute in Denmark, Katy Clough of Queen Mary, University of London in the UK, Neil Cornish of Montana State University, Jonathan Gair of the Albert Einstein Institute (a Max Planck Institute), Daniel Holz of the University of Chicago, Gary Horowitz of the University of California Santa Barbara, Luis Lehner of the Perimeter Institute of Theoretical Physics in Canada, Alex Lupsasca of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, TN, Matias Zaldarriaga of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, NJ, and Mihalis Dafermos of Princeton University.
These co-PIs are physicists and mathematicians, who specialise in strong gravity from theoretical, computational and observational perspectives.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/our-campuses:
At Queen Mary, you get the safety and security of campus life, while living in one of the most exciting parts of London.
Most of our undergraduate students are based in Mile End which is set alongside the surprisingly green and peaceful Regent’s Canal, with medicine and dentistry students situated a short walk away at our Whitechapel campus .
You can register for either an in-person or self-guided tour.
Register for a tour
Our Mile End campus offers a community where you can live, relax and study.
We have two shops, four cafés, two restaurants, a bar, a gym, a bookshop and a bank on site.
There’s plenty of green and outdoor space, but you’re only minutes away from Central London’s bustling streets.
There are nearly 2,500 rooms in self-catering residences on or near the Mile End campus and we are just a five minute walk away from Mile End and Stepney Green Tube stations.
Take a virtual tour of this thriving community and the key buildings which are home to many of Queen Mary’s academic schools across our Humanities and Social Sciences, and Science and Engineering faculties.
Our medicine and dentistry students have their own campus at Whitechapel , next to the Royal London Hospital.
Whitechapel is a vibrant area, famous for its street market, variety of curry houses and the Whitechapel Gallery.
The campus has its own library, state-of-the-art labs at the Blizard Institute and a Students Union with a cafe, bar, computers and bookshop.
But you can also use all the facilities at the Mile End campus, which is ten minutes up the road.
Come on a virtual tour and explore the Blizard Building, Garrod Building, Whitechapel library, Griff Inn, and Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Students Association.
Our West Smithfield campus is for medicine and dentistry students.
It includes St Bartholomew's hospital (Barts) and the West Smithfield Medical Library.
It also has some of Queen Mary’s cardiovascular, cancer, epidemiology and public health research facilities.
Get your bearings on a virtual tour of the campus that takes in areas such as the advanced C linical and Communications Skills Centre and the beautiful Barts Square.
Most of Queen Mary’s postgraduate law students are based in our Lincoln's Inn Fields campus in Holborn.
This area is the historic legal centre of London, near to the Royal Courts of Justice.
It’s also close to Covent Garden and the West End of London.
Have a look around the Lincoln's Inn Fields campus on a virtual tour that takes you through Kingsway, the Royal Courts of Justice and the gardens.
Situated in the heart of the City of London, our Charterhouse Square campus is home to the Barts Cancer Institute, the William Harvey Research Institute and the Wolfson Institute of Population Health .
You’ll be near to the Barbican Arts Centre, the Museum of London and other famous London landmarks.
Discover this campus and what it has to offer on a virtual tour that explores the John Vane Science Centre and Wolfson Institute of Population Health .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/london:
Where you study is about more than just lectures and libraries — it’s about gaining new experiences, meeting new people, and exploring new things.
London offers the perfect mix of professional opportunities, vibrant culture, and unforgettable experiences.
A global experience in one amazing city
With more than 280 nationalities living, working, and studying in London, when you join Queen Mary, you’ll meet people from every corner of the world.
From canal side picnics, café study sessions, and weekends exploring new corners of the capital, London offers endless opportunities to connect, collaborate, and make lifelong friends.
Be at the heart of the action
Queen Mary is perfectly located for you to explore London’s historic museums, iconic landmarks, West End shows, street markets, and beautiful parks.
Whether you’re into art, sport, history, or food, there is truly something for everyone.
Joining Queen Mary won’t just give you a world-class education — it will shape your future, your career, and your worldview.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/student-life:
There’s nowhere quite like East London and we’re proud of our unique location.
It’s international and bustling – a place where new ideas spring up and great things take shape.
We're close to Shoreditch and Brick Lane, the Tech City technology cluster, and the financial centres of Canary Wharf and the City.
Mile End is home to most of our academic Schools and offers everything you need to live, relax and study – including, shops, cafés, restaurants, Students Union and a gym.
Some of our student accommodation is just a short walk from lecture theatres and our 24-hour library.
There’s plenty of green and outdoor space to enjoy and Central London’s bustling streets are only a short journey away.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/accommodation:
Whether you want to live in halls, private rental accommodation or elsewhere , we offer support to help you choose what’s right for you.
You'll find out more about our accommodation application process further down the page.
All new Undergraduate, Postgraduate, and Foundation students joining Queen Mary are guaranteed accommodation in University halls of residence or with one of our partner providers, subject to meeting the eligibility criteria.
This includes all new postgraduate applicants and all undergraduate Clearing applicants starting in September 2025.
Applicants will need to have received and accepted an offer, and applied for Queen Mary accommodation, to be eligible.
Clearing applicants will need to accept their offer by adding Queen Mary as their Clearing choice on UCAS.
Accommodation guarantee
Our sites in Mile End, Whitechapel, Charterhouse Square and West Smithfield offer almost 3,000 student bedrooms.
Our halls of residence offer a range of affordable options, either on campus or a short distance away.
Residential fees start from around £ 170 per week for a non-ensuite room.
We guarantee accommodation to all new undergraduate and foundation students, as long as you meet the eligibility criteria on our accommodation webpages.
Queen Mary University of London is offering an accommodation guarantee for all Undergraduate Clearing applicants..
Applicants will need to have applied for Queen Mary accommodation, and received and accepted a clearing offer via UCAS to be eligible.
Whether you choose to live in halls with other new students or prefer an alternative housing option, our experienced team of housing advisors is here to help you make the right choice.
All of our campus accommodation is in self-catered flats, just a few minutes’ walk from everything you need to get the best out of your degree and your Queen Mary experience.
You’ll feel at home as part of our friendly community of staff and students.
A peaceful oasis in a busy city.
Our self-contained Mile End campus is our largest, and offers everything you need to live, study and relax.
Our lecture theatres, laboratories and study spaces – including our extensive 24-hour library – will all be on your doorstep.
You’ll also have access to the two shops, four cafés, two restaurants, bar, gym, and bookshop on site.
Our halls of residence have a friendly and relaxed atmosphere, surrounded by greenery and attractive outdoor spaces.
At times, it’s easy to forget that you’re living in the heart of a bustling capital city.
Campus accommodation is fun, safe and convenient – an affordable way to enjoy London life.
It’s also a great way to meet new people and create your own community of friends.
Our accommodation offering includes rooms in shared flats or studios, all of which are self-catering, and located a short walk or bike ride away from our campuses.
Both family accommodation and rooms designed for people with disabilities are available.
We also provide our incoming students with support in seeking alternative accommodation or rooms in privately owned halls of residence.
Residential fees include all energy and water costs, the cleaning of communal areas within the residences (including kitchens and shared bathrooms), Wi-Fi, and personal possessions insurance.
We know how important it is to find the right place to live, and our accommodation team are ready to help support and guide you.
Our dedicated postgraduate accommodation is located at Aspire Point in Stratford.
Just one tube stop, a short bicycle ride or a 15-minute bus journey away from Queen Mary’s Mile End campus, Aspire Point provides affordable living and study space with glorious views over London and the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
With studios, en suite rooms and rooms with shared bathrooms, there are rooms suited to every need and budget.
Postgraduate accommodation is also available at Blithehale Court and Sherren House, located in Bethnal Green and Stepney Green, a short walk from the Mile End campus and close to tube stops.
We also offer accommodation for our Medicine and Dentistry students at our Whitechapel and Charterhouse campuses.
This means you can live with people on a similar course, close to our clinical facilities.
Once you have received an offer for your programme you will be able to apply for accommodation via your applicant portal.
To ensure as smooth a transition as possible into postgraduate life, Queen Mary guarantees a place in halls for all applicants who apply by 30 June during their year of entry.
We aim to make sure that you feel safe and secure during your time at Queen Mary.
A 24-hour reception is available to answer questions and for reporting cleaning and maintenance issues, our residential support team is always at hand to help with any issues and to help keep you safe and secure, we have security officers on campus 24 hours a day and CCTV cameras covering public areas of our campus.
Find out more information on support and updates .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/wiph/our-research/featured-research/hpv-screening-transforms-cervical-cancer-prevention-programmes-worldwide:
John Snow Professor of Epidemiology
Queen Mary research was pivotal in the decision to make human papilloma virus (HPV) screening the first test for cervical cancer, replacing cytological testing.
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common female cancer in the world, with an estimated 570,000 new cases in 2018.
The human papilloma virus (HPV) is the cause of almost all cervical cancer.
Cancer of the cervix usually takes many years to develop.
Before it does so, patients may typically exhibit intraepithelial neoplasia, a potentially pre-cancerous change to the cervical cells.
Cervical neoplasia is graded by how deeply the cell changes extend through the basement membrane of the cervix.
‘High-grade’ intraepithelial neoplasia means that the lesions affect at least two-thirds of the thickness of the basement membrane.
For many decades, the main form of screening for cervical cancer was cytological screening, known as the Pap test or Pap smear.
It was introduced in the US in the 1940s and in the UK in 1964 and  as a national programme in the UK in 1988 and looks for changes in the nucleus of cervical cells.
However, questions have been raised over the accuracy of cytological screening, in particular its ability to identify high-grade abnormalities.
This form of screening also has a relatively high false positivity rate.
This means that cervical cancer patients could be exposed to unnecessary treatments, interventions and anxiety.
As a result, research efforts across the world have focused on finding alternatives to cytological screening that have fewer side effects and greater accuracy.
Enter HPV screening, which looks for the presence of high-risk types of HPV in cervical cells taken from a smear sample.
Since 2003, Professor Jack Cuzick and his team, with international collaborators, reported the results of the HART, Hammersmith, New Technologies for Cervical Cancer Screening (NTCC), and POBASCAM studies in a series of publications.
They conducted meta-analyses comparing conventional cytology with primary HPV cervical screening.
The HART study was a large scale, long-term follow-up of over 11,000 women from doctors’ surgeries in the UK.
It showed that, after five years, women who were already HPV-positive were more likely to develop high-grade cervical neoplasia than women who tested negatively for HPV.
In the Hammersmith study, a follow-up of nearly 3,000 women showed that HPV testing offered excellent protection from high-grade cervical neoplasia for at least six years after their negative test.
The NTCC randomised controlled trial, in nine Italian centres, compared several HPV-based screening strategies in two different age groups of women over two recruitment phases.
A meta-analysis in 2008 pooled the relative sensitivity and specificity estimates of a number of randomised and non-randomised studies from the previous decade.
These estimates demonstrated that HPV DNA testing was 14 per cent more sensitive than cytological screening.
In the POBASCAM trial published in 2012, Professor Cuzick and his colleagues showed that using HPV DNA testing in cervical screening leads to earlier detection of clinically relevant high-grade neoplasia which, if adequately treated, improves protection against more severe grade neoplasia and cervical cancer.
The POBASCAM study concluded that HPV DNA testing should be implemented for all women aged over 29.
A long-term follow-up of four European studies (including POBASCAM and NTCC) published in 2014 showed that HPV-based screening provides 60 to 70 per cent greater protection against cervical carcinomas than cytology.
The follow-up supported HPV-based screening of women from the age of 30.
In a 2012 paper published in the British Medical Journal , Professor Peter Sasieni and his colleagues assessed the cost-effectiveness of using HPV screening as the primary test for women in Europe, compared with cytology screening.
The work, based on a Dutch micro-simulation model, showed that primary HPV screening was the preferred test for women over age 30 in many different areas.
The report concluded that most European countries should consider switching to primary HPV screening.
Queen Mary’s research was crucial in validating the use of primary HPV screening as a replacement for cytology testing in screening programmes.
This has played a pivotal role in changing clinical guidelines and national screening programmes around the world.
The European Commission’s 2015 ‘European guidelines for quality assurance in cervical cancer screening: Second edition – Supplements’ were co-authored by Professor Cuzick and recommended primary HPV screening.
In the UK, the Advisory Committee for Cervical Screening agreed that “there is grade A evidence to support a switch from primary cytology to primary HPV testing in cervical screening.
This should save life years and cost less.” It recommended that HPV testing should replace cytological testing, based on “studies showing the effectiveness of HPV testing for cervical cancer screening”.
The algorithm, produced by Queen Mary’s Professor Moss, remains the national screening service protocol.
In 2018, the United States Preventive Services Task Force cervical cancer screening guidelines also recommended HPV testing alone as a first screening test to detect cervical cancer and pre-cancer, citing Queen Mary’s work.
Furthermore, in 2020 the American Cancer Society published new guidelines, citing Professor Cuzick's work and recommending primary HPV testing every five years for the 86 million American women aged 25-64.
Professor Cuzick was a member of the international advisory board for the primary HPV screening programme set up in Turkey between 2014 and 2016, which benefited over 2 million women.
In other parts of Europe (where approximately 106,500,000 women are of screening age), from 2016, HPV has been the primary screening test offered in the Netherlands, areas of Denmark, Finland, Italy, and Sweden, Romania and Malta (co-testing with cytology) and in Portugal (both as a stand-alone and in co-testing).
Following a successful pilot study using a protocol written by Professor Moss, primary HPV screening was in place across Wales in September 2018, England in December 2019, and Scotland in March 2020.
The decision was based on Grade A research evidence provided to the UK Advisory Committee for Cervical Screening.
It is estimated that HPV primary screening in the NHS will prevent around 600 new cases of cervical cancer each year.
The work of Professor Cuzick and his team led to the decision in December 2017 to start HPV primary screening in Australia for women aged 25-74 every five years.
An estimated additional 4,000 high and more severe grade cervical neoplasia cases and 129 cases of invasive cervical cancer are detected each year.
These international moves to make HPV screening the primary cervical screening test will provide millions of women with earlier diagnosis and protection from severe neoplasia and cervical cancer, while also sparing many women the anguish of unnecessary treatments, interventions and anxiety.
We are firmly embedded within our east London community, with an approach to education and research that is driven by the specific health needs of our diverse population.
We are an internationally recognised centre for research and teaching within Queen Mary's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
We conduct research into the prevention of cancer with particular focus on preventive therapy and screening.
We are involved in clinical trials and epidemiology and as such our work is essentially collaborative.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/wiph/people/profiles/cuzickjack.html:
Email: j.cuzick@qmul.ac.uk
I am currently the head of the Cancer Prevention unit within the Centre for Prevention, Detection and Diagnosis, and appointed as the John Snow Professor of Epidemiology at Queen Mary, University of London.
Until 2021, I was the director of the Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine in London and also head of Centre for Cancer Prevention.
I hold a PhD in Mathematics and have previously worked at Oxford University and Columbia University, New York.
My current interests are in cancer epidemiology and clinical trials, with special interest in prevention and screening.
I am a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Royal Statistical Society, the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.
In 2007, I was chosen by Thompson Scientific as one of the twelve hottest researchers in all of science.
I was awarded the AACR Cancer Prevention Prize in 2012 and the American Cancer Society Medal of Honor in 2015.
In 2017 I was awarded a CBE for services to cancer prevention and screening, and the CRUK Lifetime Achievement in Cancer Research prize.
I am the author of more than 500 peer-reviewed papers and have published in all the major medical journals.
I am currently Chairman of the International Breast Cancer Intervention Study (IBIS) Steering Group and the ATAC trial.
I have worked extensively in breast cancer and was the first to report the effect of tamoxifen on contralateral tumours as an indicator of its potential chemopreventive role.
I demonstrated that a change in mammographic breast density on endocrine treatment is a biomarker for its effectiveness.
I am involved in studies on the use of HPV assays for cervical screening, the use of flexible sigmoidoscopy for colorectal cancer screening and markers for the behaviour of early prostate cancer.
I am the statistician for several major breast cancer trials and maintain an active interest in developing new statistical methodology, especially in the area of adjustments for non-compliance and cross-over, and multi-arm clinical trials.
Projects List:
Please follow through for a complete list of Jack's publications.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/alumni/blog/items/alumni-profile---teni-gogo.html:
(History BA, 2017)
This Black History Month, History Teacher at Ark Pioneer Academy, Teni Gogo, has shared how studying aspects of Black History during her degree at Queen Mary uncovered a passion for History that she has taken with her into her teaching career, and how her work enables her to continue discovering and passing on the wonders that History can offer.
Why did you choose to study History at Queen Mary?
I chose to study History at Queen Mary because I was completely won over by the breadth of topics available in the second and third year.
I found that other universities were quite narrow in their offer.
What did you enjoy most about your degree and experience at Queen Mary and how did this experience help prepare you for your career?
I most enjoyed studying Kate Lowe’s module on Renaissance Encounters in Africa.
I found it so deeply fascinating.
It revealed an entirely new period of history that challenged how I approached almost every topic.
Being able to look for new material and write on topics almost entirely uncovered helped me to experience the ever-changing nature of history as a discipline.
This set me up for a career in teaching, in which I could share this process in the classroom.
During your studies, you chose several modules which allowed you to explore aspects of Black history.
How important was it for you to have these options and how did this compare to your pre-university education?
It was SO important.
I had been fortunate enough to be someone who just enjoyed my secondary history education despite not seeing myself in it.
Without encountering the relationship between European merchants and African rulers in the renaissance era, the intricacies of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, together with aspects of post-colonial Africa, it is highly unlikely I would have continued in my pursuit of a career in History.
It has set me up to make significant contributions to the History Teaching Community with a rigorous understanding of the African diaspora.
Teaching might seem like the typical option, but it is the best thing I have ever done!
Find a school that lets you really explore the discipline of the classroom, and it will be like you never left university – you get to keep learning and passing it onto a generation who will get to see themselves in the curriculum.
Why do you think it’s important that we acknowledge Black History Month each year?
While many people are significantly more aware of the ways in which Black History is a part of British History, I believe it is still important that we make time to reflect on how far we have moved forward and how far we can still go.
More work needs to be done for the work many historians are doing to become part of the popular consciousness – for there to be a general awareness of the significance and longevity of Black British History (not something that is important for those across the Atlantic).
You currently work as a History teacher.
How do you acknowledge the month with your students, and have you been able to make any great strides in incorporating more Black history into the curriculum in general?
Our curriculum is one that is used across several schools and incorporates numerous voices.
Our students do not have to explain why William Wilberforce was not the lone activist who ended slavery, but instead understand the significance of slave revolts, as well as the work of white and black abolitionists while they weigh up how much abolition actually changed life for people in Jamaica.
This is not a testament to my work but the work of a broad and supportive History teaching community coming together to share their research and work.
This is in the hope that we might provide students with a broad history curriculum in which they can come to understand the ‘connectedness’ of history and the importance of a variety of different figures – not just the traditional dominant white men.
We have taken Black History month to show them what a curriculum might have looked like 20 years ago for them to understand why we make the choices we make, but also what they can do to broaden their knowledge.
It is an opportunity for them to see that the job is not ‘done,’ but it is a chance to acknowledge progress and see how we can continue the fight to do ‘Justice to History’ (as Robin Whitburn and Abdul Mohamud would say!).
As a History teacher, who from Black history do you enjoy teaching your students about most and why?
Difficult question!
It changes with every enquiry.
Currently, it is Diego, who travelled with Francis Drake in his circumnavigation of the world.
He shows the complexities of racism in the 16th/17th centuries – that Francis Drake would enslave black Africans on the same voyage where he would befriend a Cimarron (an African who escaped slavery in the Americas, or a descendant thereof).
It always gets the students to think more deeply about the complexities of racism in modern society, being able to see the variety of factors that contribute to prejudices and racism.
Is there any advice you would give to current students or recent graduates interested in studying or teaching History?
Slowly, but surely, we might encourage more black students to study history at GCSE, A Level, Undergraduate level – addressing the huge gap in the academic field.
To have a real chance at moving towards a reality where an understanding of the significance of Black British History is part of popular consciousness, we need more David Olusoga’s, more Hakim Adi’s and more Hannah Cusworth’s.
That can start with you in the classroom… or you in the lecture hall.
There is so much potential!

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2023/smd/trail-blazing-microplastics-project-examines-the-impact-on-our-health.html:
Every day we consume food and water contaminated with microplastics – tiny pieces of plastic debris resulting from the disposal and breakdown of consumer products and industrial waste.
What is this doing to our bodies?
Queen Mary University of London is partnering with the Water Research Centre (WRc) on a pioneering new knowledge transfer research project to examine the impact of microplastics on human health.
The 24-month Knowledge Transfer Partnership project is funded jointly by WRc and Innovate UK.
It will be a crucial forerunner to the regulatory powers needed to tackle plastic’s presence in our food and drinking water.
Dr Vahitha Abdul Salam , the lead researcher from William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, comments:
“In partnership with WRc, the project offers an exciting opportunity to transfer knowledge and relevant skills to develop a comprehensive microplastic risk assessment tool that will deliver far-reaching impacts in identifying microplastic effect on human health, supporting water quality controls and guiding plastic and recycling manufacturers to safeguarding public health.”
Dr Nabil Hajji , Technical Director of Toxicology at the Water Research Centre (WRc) comments:
“The fact that microplastics are present in seafood and our marine environment is well-documented, along with the toxicity concerns associated with this.
However, the deeper understanding of the potential risks that this material presents to human health has been lacking.
“The World Health Organisation (WHO) and the EU Commission have emphasised these knowledge gaps and urged the scientific community to investigate this further.
Understanding how the toxicity of microplastics impacts on our health is the first step to putting regulatory measures in place to protect people from any risks we identify.”
The need to understand the impact of microplastics and establish a new and accurate risk assessment to empower and influence regulatory powers is both essential and time sensitive.
Dr Nabil Hajji comments:
“Plastic pollution is expected to more than double by 2030 with some 40% of plastic recognised as a single use material remaining persistent in the environment.
In addition, as it is degraded over time, it creates microplastics (less than 5mm) and nanoplastics (less than 0.1mm) – this is the substance being ingested by animals and people.”
There are several thousand chemicals associated with plastic, including distinct additives, plasticisers, pigments, antimicrobial agents, heat stabilisers, UV stabilisers, fillers, and flame retardants.
“Until we develop a risk assessment, we lack the sound scientific knowledge to empower our regulators.
The UK Committee on Toxicity of Chemicals in Food, Consumer Products, and the Environment (COT) has also echoed this concern.
It recommends research prioritises a risk assessment for microplastics by establishing standardised methods for the quantification of different microplastics in various food sources (including water), and gathering information on absorption and accumulation, as well as profiling related toxicities.
“The risk to human health will be tested in relevant human tissue and in silico (computer) models as recommended by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
At Queen Mary University of London we will perform a nanoliter-scale (one billionth of a litre) analysis for microplastic biomarkers for toxicity.
“The combined risk assessment and toxicology testing will be the first-of-its-kind for the development of a microplastic risk assessment consulting service in the UK.
Methods developed as part of this work will be validated and recommended to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to create global standard protocols for microplastic risk assessment.”
Dr Lorna Howarth , Innovate UK KTN Senior Knowledge Transfer Adviser, comments:
“This is a trail blazing knowledge transfer project that will embed a new commercial risk assessment capability into WRc using a novel methodology and approach that has not been taken before.
The outcome will have far reaching economic, environmental and societal impacts”.
Learn more about partnering with Queen Mary University of London.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/our-people/items/anna-semmens-director-of-library-services.html:
Meet Anna Semmens, Director of Library Services.
In this profile Anna tells us about about her priorities as she starts her new role as Director of Library Services, her role in helping the University achieve its Strategy 2030 and more about her favourite places to visit at our Queen Mary libraries.
I am a New Zealander and a very proud librarian.
I have worked across the library sector for the past two decades, most recently at the Royal College of Nursing as their Head of Library and Museum.
I have the frankly fantastic job of leading Queen Mary’s libraries in all aspects, the three sites and our large and ever-growing digital collections.
I bring a strong student focus with me, an understanding of the sector and a passion for making collections come alive.
I think the library is amazing, and we need to connect with the University at all points to find new ways of helping students and staff in their teaching and research to utilise our offer.
We are looking to introduce a new library services platform which will bring everything into one place and significantly improve the student library experience.
We are excited to be launching our new Centre for Digital Collections in the new academic year.
Planning is well underway for our REF submission in 2029.
I’ve been reviewing our NSS score and identifying ways to improve particularly by encouraging great use of our reading list software and more academic outreach.
Finally, we are preparing for the new academic year and welcoming our students by refreshing our study spaces across all the libraries and continuing our work in restoring our heritage buildings like Whitechapel Library.
The library is the heart of university life, so my role is to ensure the library has what the University needs to achieve its teaching, research and student life strategic goals.
My role means making sure we are working with academics to ensure we have the resources they need for teaching and research and that we are developing new services which meet their needs.
We are reviewing our sustainability impact and continuing to strive to make sure the library is a fully inclusive space both online and in person.
Also, I am lucky enough to have the archive as part of my role and I’m excited about finding ways to share our fascinating history with our local community.
Obviously, I have to say the libraries!
All three sites are wonderful in their own unique ways, if you haven’t visited let me know and I will organise a tour.
Special mentions include the futuristic lift at Whitechapel, the mezzanine at West Smithfield and the view from the 4th floor at Mile End towards the Olympic Park.
I’ve recently gotten very into yoga and can be found running extremely slowly in south London as well as volunteering at a local school and a nursery.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/careers:
Investigate what you might want to do after you graduate.
Secure or create opportunities to develop new skills and experience.
Demonstrate your strengths, skills and experience effectively.
Embrace change and navigate successfully to your next destination.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/contact:
Below, you will find information on various ways you can contact different areas of the University.
We encourage you to view our frequently asked questions as they may hold information you need.
Are you a prospective student?
Take a look at our FAQs.
In case of emergency, please contact the Queen Mary security team on 020 7882 3333 (internal extension 3333).
If you are a current student, you can contact the Student Enquiry Centre for further information.
Email: studentenquiry@qmul.ac.uk
If you have questions about accommodation, contact our residences team.
You can also find out more on our accommodation pages .
Phone: +44 020 7882 8888
For more information please visit the IT Services site .
For current IT Service status(es) and scheduled maintenance please visit the IT Services Status Page .
Do you have any comments about our website?
Email us your feedback at websupport@qmul.ac.uk
Find out more about Queen Mary's five campuses in London , and how to find them.
You can also reach out to our main switchboard, who'll be able to direct your query to the appropriate team.
Switchboard: +44 (0)20 7882 5555

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/library:
Help with Library Search Subject guides Reading Lists Online
BrowZine A-Z list of Databases E-Journals by Subject
Get it for me Archives Catalogue Queen Mary Research Online
8.00 AM - 10.00 PM Monday - Sunday*
*Open Bank Holiday Monday (25 August)
8.00 AM - Midnight Mon-Sun
10.00 AM - 8.00 PM  Monday - Friday
Closed Saturday - Sunday
Basement 24/7
8.00 AM - 10.00 PM  Monday - Friday
10.00 AM - 10.00 PM  Saturday - Sunday
PGRs have 24/7 access
Closed
24/7
Email us Feedback form Locating the Libraries

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/our-brand:
At Queen Mary University of London, we believe that the diversity of ideas helps us achieve the previously unthinkable.
If you are not a Queen Mary employee, you can request access to our brand guidelines, logos and other resources by contacting the Content and Brand team .
Email content@qmul.ac.uk
If you are a Queen Mary employee, you can access content and brand toolkits on the External Relations intranet .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/parents:
There are many aspects to student life which may be unfamiliar to you and your young person.
View the the different support services offered by Queen Mary below.
Each section will lead you to the relevant area of our website where you can find more detailed information.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/professional-services:
Professional Services departments work together to help deliver the university's Strategy 2030 .
Visit our pages to contact us and find out more about us.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/publicengagement:
At Queen Mary University of London, we are deeply committed to being an institution that is connected to communities where our work has an impact: from east London to Rio de Janeiro.
We strive to create an environment where Queen Mary's research and teaching can be shaped, conducted, and shared, with the public as partners in this process.
To support this mission, our Centre for Public Engagement work to embed public engagement further within the university by providing advice and support, reward and recognition, and funding for engaged activities.
Stay up to date with public engagement opportunities, funding and events by signing up for the monthly newsletter from the team

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/strategy-2030:
To open the doors of opportunity.
To create a truly inclusive environment, building on our cherished cultural diversity, 
where students and staff flourish, reach their full potential and are proud to be part of the University.
Dedicated to the public good, we will generate new knowledge, challenge existing knowledge, and engage locally, nationally and internationally to create a better world.
We will be inclusive and maintain our proud tradition of nurturing and supporting talented students and staff regardless of their background and circumstances, and continually enhance our strong engagement with our local and global communities.
We are proud of the difference we can all make when we work collectively.
We are ambitious and we will foster innovation and creativity, disrupt conventional thought, and respond with imagination to new opportunities to further our vision, mission and academic ambitions.
We will be collegial and promote a strong collegial community through openness, listening, understanding, co-operation and co-creation, ensuring focused delivery of our collective vision and strategy.
We will act with the highest ethical standards, and with integrity, in all that we do.
Saving lives Trauma science Queen Mary’s Centre for Trauma Sciences is a world-leading centre of excellence for translational trauma research.
Our research has underpinned
significant reductions in trauma deaths.
It is an honour and a privilege to be the Chair of the Council of this extraordinary University.
I began this role in September 2017 and was immediately struck by both the differences and similarities between Queen Mary and other Russell Group universities.
Queen Mary has world-leading research across wide-ranging disciplines, but we should be much more ambitious about highlighting them.
The University also has extraordinary student demographics.
More than 90% of our home students come from state schools, with 40% of our home students being the first in their family to go to university.
In addition, there are over 160 nationalities represented on the University’s London campuses.
Queen Mary’s student population is a wonderfully diverse mix, where people who grew up around the corner exchange ideas in corridors with those from the other side of the world.
Our students need to be nurtured and developed.
Student support in all its forms is critical for all students, but particularly for those who are a long way from home, have overcome significant obstacles to get to university or have many other competing priorities in their lives, such as caring responsibilities.
There are also the joys – and challenges – of educating a diverse group of students.
It is surely more rewarding than teaching a more uniform group but it requires different techniques, and an ongoing commitment to the development of excellent education and student support by the University.
Never has it been more true that the only constant, for the higher education sector, is change.
It is impossible to predict what will happen over the course of the next few years in the sector, or to accurately predict the labour market for which we are preparing our students.
Looking beyond higher education we also do not know whether the current economic and political turmoil in countries across the globe, including our own, will spiral or settle.
We do know, however, that students preparing for university are evermore savvy and socially conscious.
They understand the importance of a well-rounded education, lifelong learning, adaptability and personal resilience.
As a society, we are continuing to battle the ingrained issues of the economic divide, to ensure that everyone has the chance to fulfil their potential, irrespective of their background.
I am confident this strategy will deliver: for Queen Mary, for its communities, and for society.
It is a bold strategy, which builds on the University’s strengths – its fabulous communities.
It is built on firm foundations and a continual commitment to excellence, to furrowing the University’s own path, and to financial sustainability.
I commend to you Queen Mary’s Strategy 2019 – 2030.
Improving lives Transforming lives through the arts.
People’s Palace Projects (PPP) is an independent arts charity founded in 1996 by Professor Paul Heritage of Queen Mary’s School of English and Drama.
PPP brings artists, activists, academics and audiences together for projects that address a wide range of social justice and human rights issues.
An example People Palace Project 
is ‘With One Voice’: a choir formed by people with experience of homelessness in Brazil.
In this picture the choir is performing on the stairs of the Municipal Theatre Rio, as part of Rio 2016 Cultural Olympiad.
Photo by Lorena Mossa
Our founding institutions are the London Hospital Medical College, St Bartholomew’s Medical College, Westfield College and Queen Mary College.
The vision of our founders, for each institution, was to provide ‘hope and opportunity’ for the less privileged population in East London and the suburbs of the City of London.
These four, historic institutions now make up Queen Mary University of London, a global University committed to improving lives locally, nationally and internationally.
Today, Queen Mary is unique.
True to our founders’ vision, we continue to open the doors of opportunity by seamlessly combining world-leading strengths in both education and research.
We have an impressive and well-deserved reputation for attracting national and international students from all backgrounds, whilst retaining a deep and enduring engagement with our local community.
Our potential to address some of society’s long-standing, and frustrating, issues with social mobility is unrivalled.
We offer a Russell Group research-led education and attract local, national and international students from diverse backgrounds, actively seeking out and recruiting students from backgrounds currently under-represented at universities like ours.
Our strategy is based on our two main core areas of activity: education and the student experience, and research and innovation.
Global and public engagement, shaping policy, economic and societal impact, entrepreneurship and developing partnerships are embedded in all our activities.
Our students deserve an outstanding education, coupled with tailored personal support.
At Queen Mary, we co-create our pedagogical approach with our students to deliver a gold-standard education.
Our wrap-around student support ensures our students are able to fulfil their potential and get the most from their studies and experiences.
See ‘ Education and Student Experience ’ for more about this part of our strategy.
We have research strengths across wide-ranging disciplines: true, world-leading highlights.
Areas such as Law, Medicine, Dentistry, Linguistics, English, History, Drama, Engineering and Life Sciences are nationally and internationally leading.
The quality of our research speaks for itself.
Through this strategy we will significantly build the quantity and capacity of our research, whilst maintaining our world-leading quality, through supporting our scholars at all stages of their careers.
Through the creation of interdisciplinary University Research Institutes, Centres and Networks, we will build opportunities for scholars from different disciplines to work together to address the major challenges facing society.
Our University Institutes will be vibrant hubs, both physical and virtual, in areas that align with our strengths and societal challenges including Global Health and Inequalities, Digital Environment, Ethics and Governance and Creative Industries.
These will be underpinned by world-leading University Centres of Excellence and University Networks.
All University Institutes, Centres and Networks will be continually reviewed and refreshed to ensure that they align with our core strengths and allow new and focused areas to develop in a creative and responsive way.
See ‘ Research and Innovation ’ for more about this part of our strategy.
There is no doubt we are living in interesting times.
The turbulence in the national and international sector, and in politics and economies, across the world, is unprecedented.
Personally, I doubt this will settle down.
Our contribution as a university will always remain the same, irrespective of external pressures.
We will remain true to our vision of opening the doors of opportunity through our education and research.
We will continue to expand the boundaries of knowledge through our research, to help tackle inequalities and other global challenges facing society.
We will also build on our success of attracting students from traditionally under-represented groups and ensure we serve them well.
We will prepare our graduates to take their place in an ever-changing world as the next generation of leaders in their chosen fields.
We are already a global university, with footprints in Paris, Malta, Athens and Singapore, and significant transnational education in China.
Our staff collaborate all over the world, and the impact of our research is felt across the world.
We have a strong sense of place in East London, which is combined with a global outlook and a full understanding that we must prepare our students to be global citizens.
Over the course of this strategy we will further develop the global Queen Mary family and footprint.
We will continue to build strategic partnerships with the very best universities and businesses overseas, further developing global policy relationships and expand and bring greater coherence to our physical and virtual international footprint.
We will ensure our alumni retain a close connection with their University throughout their lives, and enable them to be our advocates and ambassadors as well as giving them the opportunity to contribute to the future development of Queen Mary.
The heart of this strategy is the Queen Mary community: our students, staff and alumni.
We will support, develop and nurture our people so that they can be the best they can be.
We want our staff and students to be entrepreneurial, and we will support them to realise their ambitions and dreams.
We will embrace a culture of creativity and innovation and support our staff and students to take risks, within a managed framework.
We will build resilience with our communities to understand that sometimes ideas and projects will fail, and it is how we deal with and move on from failure that sets us apart.
We are incredibly proud of, and cherish, the diversity and quality of our student and our staff communities.
We know from experience that diversity is a potent catalyst for ground-breaking ideas: in conversations in corridors snatched between lectures; when science and the humanities work together; and between students who grew up round the corner and those from the other side of the world.
We will continue to embrace and enhance this diversity of thought and opinion in everything we do in the firm belief that when different views collide, disciplines interact, and perspectives intersect, truly original thought takes place.
Writing award-winning lives Professor Julian Jackson, Head of Queen Mary’s School of History, won the Duff Cooper Prize for his biography of Charles De Gaulle, A Certain Idea of France: The Life of Charles De Gaulle .
Charles de Gaulle (1890-1970), French President, inspecting the Chelsea Pensioners in London during a state visit to Great Britain, April 1960.
We will deliver an outstanding, inclusive, world-class education and student experience, co-created with our diverse student body, enhanced by our world-leading research and latest technological developments.
The potential and adaptability of Queen Mary students is unnerving.
We attract some of the brightest and best students from across the world and from all walks of life.
Our students themselves do not always realise just how far they can go and how high they can aim.
All our students bring their own unique premium of talent to get into Queen Mary.
We will ensure that premium is embellished at our University and translated into greater attainment and opportunities.
In some cases, our students do not have the networks and in-built confidence to enable them to aspire to the careers they deserve.
In addition, they do not always have the support they need to manage the many conflicting demands of their lives whilst at university.
It is our responsibility to provide that support, tailored to each and every student, to ensure that they can reach their full potential.
To realise this ambition this core area of our strategy is delivered through our education and student experience principles, supported by four pillars of excellence outlined below.
The education and student experience principles informing this strategy are to:
Our four pillars of education and student experience excellence that inform this strategy are:
The four pillars of excellence are presented below:
The education we provide is led by world-class academics: our students are taught by the people who wrote the textbooks.
Our strategy builds on existing excellence to ensure that students are co-creators in their education and the learning environment.
Our teachers are equipped to meet the needs of diverse learners, and can support students to achieve their full potential and be leaders in their chosen fields.
We will ensure:
We will continually develop new approaches to support students in their learning and make sure they have a clear voice in the development of the University, working closely with Queen Mary Students’ Union.
We will ensure that:
We will ensure our students are supported in obtaining the careers to which they aspire.
We will provide:
Providing a world-class digital and physical learning environment for students is crucial for their success.
At Queen Mary, students are partners in the development of their environment.
To ensure we keep pace with and predict their future needs we will:
Searching for life Proxima b.
Dr Guillem Anglada-Escude, Reader in Astronomy from Queen Mary’s School of Physics and Astronomy, led the team that discovered the new planet, Proxima b.
Dr Anglada-Escude was named one of TIME Magazine’s 100 world’s most influential people in 2017.
We will be recognised for our distinctive, world-leading, curiosity-driven and applied research, and will continually build our research capacity for social, cultural and economic impact.
Creating communities of diverse scholars across the globe is at the heart of our approach.
Leading research to cure haemophilia; a revolutionary new political theory; the latest advances to underpin the treatment of cancer and heart disease; pioneering developments in artificial intelligence; an acclaimed biography of one of the 20th century’s greatest leaders.
These are just some of the many recent outputs of research at Queen Mary.
The quality of our research and impact is recognised all over the world.
We will build upon our success, specifically by significantly increasing capacity in key focused areas and bringing research excellence together with real impact at all times.
In keeping with our ethos, we attract scholars from all over the world and will create more opportunities for them to work together and make sure we are supporting and nurturing them at all stages of their careers.
Entrepreneurship, innovation and engagement are an embedded part of our research culture.
We will maintain our commitment to achieving impact and involving end users, patients, policy-makers and the public in the research we do.
This core area of our strategy is delivered through our research and innovation principles supported by three pillars of excellence shown below.
Our three pillars of research excellence that inform this strategy are:
The three pillars of excellence are presented below:
To support our researchers at every stage of their careers we will:
To achieve excellence in research outputs and impact we will:
Understanding life Rewriting the bumblebee rule book.
Professor Lars Chittka, from Queen Mary’s School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, is a world-leading expert in explaining the behaviour of bees and how they shape our lives.
This strategy will be supported by detailed enabling plans, which will be regularly updated, covering:
We will measure our progress via Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) under the following headings:
We will also monitor these enablers of our Strategy:
We will ensure that we remain financially sustainable in all that we do.
Given the challenging turbulent funding landscape we must ensure that our University’s finances are carefully managed and that our appetite for risk is appropriate to the environment in which we are working.
We must continue to invest in the development of our staff and our infrastructure.
As a campus university in London, we have a costly estate and a need to invest in our physical and digital infrastructure to keep pace with and where possible outstrip the expectations of our students and scholars.
These investments are carefully planned out over the next 10 years.
This will include the development of new buildings, refurbishment and significant maintenance on each of our five London campuses, investment in IT infrastructure, investment in equipment, and investment and expansion of our residential footprint.
We are committed to working with alumni and friends of Queen Mary to help us achieve our ambitions and diversify our income streams.
We will expand the use of our estate and make sure our facilities are fully utilised and our campuses vibrant in the evenings and at weekends.
Where possible, we will ensure that our campuses and facilities are open to and used by the public.
We will also find further efficiencies in the way we run our University, ensure our administration is lean and agile, and make best use of cutting-edge technology to underpin all the work of the University.
Our finances are overseen by our Finance and Investment Sub Committee, which reports to our Executive and to our Council Committees.
Artificial life Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) World-leading robotics and AI research and innovation at Queen Mary spans areas including human-machine interaction, design and materials and perception.
We host a Doctoral Training Centre in Artificial Intelligence and Music, which focuses on music understanding, intelligent instruments and interfaces, and computational creativity, guided by real application needs from digital music partners across the world.
Time-line of Queen Mary University of London
1822
1885
1902
1907
1913
1921
1933
1949
1964
Actual Experience plc was founded in 2009 following a decade of research by Queen Mary academic Professor Jonathan Pitts.
Actual’s unique approach to analysing a digital service enables organisations to fix and relentlessly improve their digital business.
Actual Experience provides analytics-as-a-service to some of the world’s largest service providers (including Verizon, Vodafone and Accenture), and its research for Ofcom has directly influenced UK government policy regarding the Universal Service Obligation for broadband.
The company is listed on the London Stock Exchange (ACT) and now employs more than 80 people.
A PDF of the Queen Mary University of London Strategy 2030 document is available to download below:
Queen Mary University of London Strategy 2030 document [PDF 17,616KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/outreach:
A warm welcome from the Student Recruitment and Widening Participation team.
If you are either a teacher, parent or carer, supporting students who are progressing into higher education or a student interested in studying at Queen Mary University of London, we are here to help you.
Our Student Recruitment and Widening Participation team act as the main point of contact for schools and colleges.
Together we provide an extensive range of projects and activities for teachers and advisers, staff in IAG roles, tutors, curriculum staff, parents/carers and students.
Our activities are informed by students, their supporters and often developed and delivered by our student ambassadors who provide a realistic insight into what it is like to be a student.
Find out more about us and how we can support you in the sections below:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/trade-union-facility-time:
Employees in your organisation
5,001 to 9,999 employees
Trade union representatives and full-time equivalents
Trade union representatives: 29 FTE trade union representatives: 19.9
Percentage of working hours spent on facility time
0% of working hours: 0 representatives 1 to 50% of working hours: 29 representatives 51 to 99% of working hours: 0 representatives 100% of working hours: 0 representatives
Total pay bill and facility time costs
Total pay bill: £208886626.28 Total cost of facility time: £93176.53 Percentage of pay spent on facility time: 0.04%
Paid trade union activities
Hours spent on paid facility time: 3374 Hours spent on paid trade union activities: 590 Percentage of total paid facility time hours spent on paid TU activities: 17.49 %

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/site/accessibility:
In line with our strategic vision of creating a truly inclusive environment for all of our staff and students, including those who have disabilities and difficulties accessing text, Queen Mary is committed to ensuring that all of our digital estate is accessible.
As a public sector body, the university is mindful of the new Public Sector Bodies Accessibility Regulations that came into effect on 23 September 2018 and is in the process of ensuring that our websites comply with this legislation.
With this aim in mind, we are reviewing our existing document templates to ensure that they comply with the international WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility standard as required by the new legislation.
We are also addressing the content on our virtual learning environment, QM Plus, and advising colleagues on best practice to help the people using our website access its content.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/site/disclaimer:
This website and all websites published within the Internet domain associated with Queen Mary University of London comply with the Queen Mary's Web Policy and Code of Practice for Web Based Publishing and are in accordance to the laws of England and Wales.
Queen Mary will make every endeavour to deliver courses as described in this prospectus.
However, changes may be necessary at times.
Queen Mary reserves the right to make changes to the content or methods of delivery of courses, or to discontinue or merge courses.
If a course is discontinued, Queen Mary will make every effort to provide a suitable alternative.
If you are applying to Queen Mary, you will receive all relevant information during the admissions procedure.
Applicants are advised that data supplied for admissions purposes is held and used according to data protection legislation.
Alumni and supporters of Queen Mary should please see https://www.qmul.ac.uk/alumni/privacynotice/ for further details relevant to them.
Queen Mary complies with data protection legislation and subsequent regulations including the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations.
You will retain the right to opt-out of future correspondence at any point.
We will not pass your details onto third parties, except under contract where such companies help to fulfil the delivery of our communications or otherwise permitted by law.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/site/privacy:
This privacy notice explains how Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) collects personal data via this website and how we use it and about cookies used on this site.
It applies to information we collect about:
When someone visits our websites we collect standard internet log information and details of visitor behaviour patterns.
This is to help us analyse visitor behaviour patterns and track visitor numbers so that we can monitor how it is used and improve it.
We collect this information in a way which does not personally identify those using our websites.
If we do want to collect personally identifiable information through our website, we will make this clear and will explain what we intend to do with it.
You can find more information at: https://arcs.qmul.ac.uk/governance/information-governance/data-protection You can control how we market to you by using the unsubscribe link in any email you receive or by following the instructions in any other marketing communications you may receive.
Please note that some sites related to QMUL may collect and use data differently.
These sites will have a local privacy notice.
While using this website to request a prospectus, book an event or open day, send an enquiry or apply online, you may have to submit personal data about you, which may include your name, contact details and areas of QMUL you are interested in.
We are committed to protecting your privacy and the information that you give us will be processed in accordance with our , this statement and the privacy notice communicated to you at the point of collection.
The information supplied by you will be used for specified purposes, for example to fulfil the order or booking you have made, process your application, contact you and compile statistics.
For more information, please refer to our Central Privacy Notice and local privacy notices available to you.
When you provide personal data via our website you will provide consent for us to process that data for the purpose described.
In some circumstances, the processing will be necessary for the performance of a contract or to take steps prior to entering in to a contract.
Where IP addresses are logged, the legal basis is our legitimate interest in providing a website that functions effectively for all users.
We do not sell or share your personal data with any third parties, except where this may be permitted or required by law or where you have given consent.
However, we do work with a number of third parties who act as service providers and data processors on our behalf.
These are bound by contracts to process personal data securely.
Submitting personal data via an online form hosted by one of these may result in data being processed outside the EEA and cookies being set by that party.
We will retain your information in line with our Records Retention Schedule .
The retention period could differ depending on your relationship with us and the interactions you have with us.
Cookies are small text files placed on a website visitor's computer or device, which identify it to our server.
Cookies do not identify individual users, only the computer used.
They are widely used in order to make websites work more efficiently, as well as to provide certain information to the owners of the site.
You may delete and block all cookies from this site.
Most web browsers allow some control of cookies through the browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them from your computer, see below and visit www.allaboutcookies.org .
Each cookie used on our website have a range of different purposes.
Some cookies will be necessary to enable basic functions on our website.
These are the cookies we use on our website with links to the relevant cookie policy:
These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site.
We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the site.
The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the site, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited.
Cookie names:
Read an overview of privacy at Google
To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout
These signify you have responded to our website's cookie notification banner.
If you remove this cookie, the notification will display again.
Cookie name:
We embed videos from our YouTube channels using YouTube's privacy-enhanced mode.
This mode may set cookies on your computer once you click on the YouTube video player, but YouTube will not store personally identifiable cookie information for playbacks of embedded videos using the privacy-enhanced mode.
To find out more please visit YouTube's embedding videos information page .
Our websites may contain links to and from the websites of third parties.
If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.
Please read these policies before you submit any personal data to these third party sites.
For further information, including on your rights, please see https://www.qmul.ac.uk/privacy/
Your web browser will have an option you may select that will block cookies.
Below are links to information about popular web browsers and how to block cookies using them.
Firefox
Google Chrome
Microsoft Edge
Safari
Other web browsers – see the Information Commissioner's Office's website
If you have any questions or concerns please contact the Data Protection Officer by email: data-protection@qmul.ac.uk , or post: Data Protection Officer, Queen Mary University of London, Mile End Road, London, E1 4NS

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/procurement/modern-slavery-statement:
Our Modern Slavery Statement sets out the steps taken by Queen Mary during the financial year, from 2023 to 2024, to ensure supply chain transparency in order to manage the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking.
The below statement has been published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Modern Slavery Statement 2023-24 [PDF 2,575KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/procurement/supplier-fraud-alert:
An important message for existing and potential suppliers to Queen Mary University of London.
We want to alert you to a fraud scam that is targeting existing and potential suppliers of goods to Queen Mary University of London, as well as other universities and businesses, nationally and globally.
Download our document to find out how this scam operates, what Queen Mary is doing about it and what precautions you can take to avoid being a victim of this scam:
Supplier Fraud Alert February 2025 [PDF 232KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/about/facts-and-figures/ofs-data:
The information published on these pages shows:
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
It is important to note that the data presented has not been contextualised.
This means, for example, that you will not be able to see from this data how many of those applying to courses met the entry criteria.
It is also the case that universities and colleges will often receive many more applications than they have spaces on courses and so offer rates will necessarily be lower than application rates in those circumstances.
Download our most recent Transparency tables 2022 [XLS 37KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply:
Find all the relevant information you need on this page to make an application through UCAS
Our service offers confidential one to one advice to help you access university
Find out how to join us for an Open Day or visit our campus
Find information on Queen Mary accommodation and the accommodation guarantee we offer to first-year students

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/how-to-apply:
Thank you for your interest in undergraduate study at Queen Mary.
This page provides advice and guidance for completing your application form.
Applications for our undergraduate programmes should be made online through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)*.
You can choose up to five courses in your UCAS application.
You can apply for more than one course offered by a university - just make a separate entry for each choice.
You can only choose four medicine and dentistry courses in your application but you can add a fifth choice as long as it is a different subject.
Our institution code is Q50 .
You'll need this as well as your UCAS course code , which you can find on your chosen course page from the course finder .
Please do not submit originals of certificates or transcripts by post, as the Admissions Office does not have the capacity to securely store such documents.
*If you are applying from any of the following regions, please contact the Admissions team to register your interest:
The application deadline for equal consideration for the majority of Queen Mary courses is 29 January 2025.
We encourage you apply through UCAS as early as possible.
There are more flexible deadlines for international applicants, but we recommend you apply early for popular courses.
You can find key dates and deadlines here for undergraduate degree courses.
Apply via UCAS
Questions about applying through UCAS?
As part of the application process for our Medicine and Dentistry programmes, you will need to sit the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT).
Register for UCAT
This test is in addition to meeting the standard academic entry requirements and assesses your suitability for medical and dental study.
Find out more about our admissions requirements for medicine and dentistry .
We also offer a five-year degree in Malta as an alternative to the standard London-based MBBS.
Applications for our Malta-based Medicine programme should apply directly to Queen Mary, rather than via UCAS.
Find out more about studying medicine in Malta .
Students studying at another medical or dental school are welcome to apply to our intercalated degrees.
Find out more about our intercalated degrees .
At Queen Mary, we offer a range of foundation programmes which provides an alternative route into many of our undergraduate programmes.
International students have the opportunity to study one of the following programmes enabling them to progress onto various undergraduate degree programmes:
Humanities and Social Science
Science and Engineering
Medicine
Applicants are required to apply directly to Queen Mary.
Find out more about the International Foundation Year .
These courses combine a foundation year with a traditional university degree in an integrated four- or five-year programme.
A list of available programmes can be found on our dedicated webpages .
These programmes are open to UK, EU and international students.
Applications should be made via UCAS.
Contact the admissions team for any questions you have about applying
Once we have received a complete application, we will respond to your application as soon as possible, please be aware that it might take some time for our expert teams to assess your application, We aim to process your application within 4 weeks but at peak times it may take longer .
If you receive an offer, we will explain how you can accept it.
The process varies according to your programme.
If you applied through UCAS, you should accept your offer via UCAS Hub and will receive information about relevant deadlines directly from UCAS.
Check out our after you apply pages for information on the next steps after you receive an offer.
At Queen Mary, we do not consider extenuating circumstances in assessing academic qualifications for entry onto our programmes.
We appreciate there may be circumstances, outside an applicant’s control, that they feel may have impaired their assessment performance and ability to meet our minimum academic entry requirements and, in these instances, we advise applicants raise this with their previous school/institution or examination board so that they can factor it in when awarding grades.
Our entry requirements clearly state the minimum academic grade applicants need to attain, as well as required or cognate subjects needed, where applicable.
In circumstances where an applicant has not attained the minimum required grade for entry, due to extenuating circumstances, we will have expected applicants to have notified their school, university or examination board and outlined the circumstances that have impacted their learning.
Where applicable, we would expect this to be considered in the final examinations or assessments and reflected in the final grades awarded.
Queen Mary will therefore not further consider these circumstances as part of its decision making.
Education providers and examination bodies can provide reasonable adjustments for disabilities or long-term conditions (including specific learning differences and mental health diagnoses) that may affect students during their studies or examinations and we would expect that adequate and appropriate measures would have been put in place.
Circumstances like this would not be considered as extenuating circumstances.
Queen Mary’s mission is to create a truly inclusive environment where we support talented students regardless of their background or personal experience, please be aware that extenuating circumstances are separate to our Contextual Admissions criteria and guidance .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/policies:
Please find policies and procedures relevant to the Admissions process here.
2025/26
2024/25
2023/24 Policies
2022/23 Policies
Procedures
Other useful links

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/entry:
Queen Mary University of London is committed to recruiting students of the highest intrinsic talent and potential, and we have a long-standing commitment to widening participation and fair access.
Every application to Queen Mary is considered on its individual merits.
Medicine and Dentistry course enquiries
smdadmissions@qmul.ac.uk
All other undergraduate course enquiries
admissions@qmul.ac.uk
In this section:
If you are interested in applying to study Medicine or Dentistry at Queen Mary, please see the detailed information about our entry requirements, admissions policy and procedures available on our dedicated webpages for the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry .
We understand that many students are now taking a combination of qualifications at Level 3.
We will always consider your full academic profile and make offers on a case-by-case basis depending on the combination of qualifications you are taking.
We encourage you to contact our Admissions Office before making your application so we can offer you advice based on your individual circumstances.
We consider every application on its individual merits and may take into consideration your individual educational experience and context.
For more information on how academic schools and courses use this information as part of the admissions process, please refer to our Contextual Admissions page.
Many of our programmes have subject requirements, details of which are within the entry requirements of the relevant Course Finder entry.
In some cases, a minimum grade will be required.
We recommend that you consult the Russell Group Informed Choices publication to help you assess the suitability of the subjects you are taking for your chosen programme.
If you have any concerns about the suitability of your A-Level subject profile, our Admissions team is happy to advise you before making an application.
We will consider all modern foreign language A levels for entry regardless of an applicant’s native language.
We will usually include native language A levels in offer conditions where they are taken alongside any subject specific requirements provided all three A levels have been sat together and taken within a two year period.
We may make exceptions to this policy, for example, for applicants applying to competitive subjects where an applicant is taking four A levels.
In these cases offer conditions will normally exclude the native language A level.
Similarly exceptions may apply where a student applies having already attained a native language in a previous year or sitting.
We advise applicants to contact Admissions before they apply to obtain specific and individual advice on whether their native language A level will be included in offer conditions or not.
For certain courses, it is possible to transfer to Year 2 or to Year 3 of a four-year programme.
It is not possible to transfer to the final year of any degree programme.
For information on how to apply, our entry requirements, and which Schools consider transfers, please see our page on Transfer and Advanced Entry .
For students taking three or more A-levels, all our offers are normally expressed in terms of three A-Level grades.
Science Practical Exams
If you are taking Science A-levels (Biology, Chemistry or Physics) with an Awarding Body in England you will normally be asked to achieve a Pass in the practical endorsement, in addition to the overall A-level grade.
This requirement will not apply if you are taking science A-levels privately.
Excluded subjects
Most of our courses do not accept A-levels in General Studies or Critical Thinking, and others may exclude Use of Mathematics.
AS-Levels
We do not take into consideration AS grades when making a decision on your application.
The only exception to this is if you are applying for Medicine or Dentistry and started your A-levels before September 2015.
We consider applications from applicants taking Access qualifications for most of our Undergraduate programmes.
Full details of specific entry requirements can be found on each Course Finder entry.
We typically ask for a minimum number of overall credits as well as specifying a number of credits that you must achieve at either Merit and/ or Distinction.
We have a dedicated page that lists our BTEC requirements by course.
We have listed our requirements in terms of the grades required in reformed RQF BTEC Qualifications (introduced from September 2016 onwards).
Some of our courses still accept applications from applicants with unreformed QCF BTEC qualifications as well as combinations of BTEC and A-Level qualifications.
If you require further information about the suitability of your qualifications before applying please contact our Admissions Office .
W e do n’t currently consider any International BTEC qualifications for entry .
We welcome the introduction of the new Core Maths qualifications and believe they will be beneficial to students wishing to study Social Science subjects that may involve the use of applied mathematical skills, such as Business Management, Geography, and Politics.
We may consider the Core Maths qualification in lieu of the GCSE Mathematics requirement for your chosen course.
Please list Core Maths as one of the qualifications you are taking when you apply through UCAS .
We welcome applications from students taking an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) alongside their A-levels.
An EPQ enables you to explore a topic in depth and to develop academic skills that will provide a strong foundation to support your transition to university.
Alternative offer making
Once we receive your application and full details of the qualifications you are taking, we may make you an alternative offer which includes a specific grade in the EPQ in addition to three A-level grades.
For further information, please see our Extended Project Qualification webpage .
We normally expect you to have achieved grades A*–C or 9–4 in at least five subjects, including English.
Some courses have specific higher requirements and you can find further details in our Course Finder .
We welcome applications from students studying the Irish Leaving Certificate.
Our exact requirements depend on the course you are applying for.
Applicants will typically be required to pass a minimum of five subjects at Higher level with particular grades in subjects relevant to the course being applied for.
Please use our Course Finder to see the A-Level requirements for your chosen course.
We recognise Scottish Higher qualifications and generally require one Advanced Higher alongside four Highers for entry to our Undergraduate Programmes.
For course specific entry requirements, please contact our Admissions Office directly.
T Level applicants may be considered on a case-by-case basis with additional experiential experience where appropriate.
Please be aware any applicant applying to a programme that has a Mathematics requirement will be required, in addition, to have an A-Level Mathematics qualification or equivalent.
We are committed to assess the suitability of further T Level qualifications for entry onto our undergraduate programmes once their course specifications are available.
We recognise the Welsh Baccalaureate Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate as an appropriate Level 3 qualification for entry to the majority of our Undergraduate degree courses*.
Generally, this Certificate can be accepted in lieu of one A-Level and offers will specify a grade to achieve in the Skills Challenge.
Specific A-Level subject requirements will still apply.
Please see our Course Finder for details of the A-Level requirements of your chosen course.
*Please note our School of Law will not include the Welsh Baccalaureate Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate in the conditions of any offers of study.
However, we may consider the qualification when we receive your final results (if you slightly miss the conditions specified in your offer).
We welcome applications from students studying the European Baccalaureate qualification.
We will typically ask for an overall percentage plus any subject specific requirements (depending on the course you are applying to).
Please see our Course Finder for the A-Level requirements for your chosen course.
We welcome applications from students studying the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma.
We will typically ask for an overall score (out of 45) and specify grades in three subjects taken at Higher Level (HL).
In some cases, we may also specify a minimum grade in Standard Level (SL) subjects.
This table shows how we generally map our IB requirements to A-Levels.
There are a handful of exceptions to the equivalences.
Course specific IB requirements are published on each Course Finder entry.
IB Mathematics
Our Schools will accept both Mathematics: Analysis and approaches or Mathematics: Applications and interpretation routes at Higher Level.
Both will also be considered at Standard Level except for programmes within the School of Mathematics.
Where Mathematics is required at Higher Level, we do not generally consider Maths Studies.
IB Career-related Diploma (IBCP)
We may consider applicants taking the IBCP when offered as a combination of IB certificates and Level 3 BTEC diplomas (where BTECs are accepted for entry).
Please refer to our BTEC webpage for further details on our BTEC entry requirements.
Alternatively, we may consider the IBCP in combination with other acceptable Level 3 qualifications on a case-by-case basis.
Additionally, we will require applicants to have met any subject-specific requirements to the programme they are applying to, through an A Level or IB Higher Level subject.
We strongly advise you to contact our Admissions Office with details of the course you wish to apply to and the combination of qualifications you are taking.
Middle Years Programmes
We may consider subjects studied as an IB Middle Years programme in lieu of any required GCSE requirements provided that a formal certificate is awarded.
We are not usually able to consider statement of results documents from schools confirming the award.
Please contact our Admissions Office directly for more information.
We accept a wide range of international qualifications including most International A-Levels.
We routinely consider International A-Levels where they are awarded from Pearson, AQA, LRN and OCR exam bodies.
If your International A-Level is awarded by an alternative exam body please contact our Admissions Office directly to enquire.
Our students come from over 162 countries and we accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Please see our dedicated pages for international students where you can find our international entry requirements listed by your country or region.
We expect all students to have a good standard of English in order to successfully study on a course.
Our minimum English language requirement at GCSE is grade C or 4 although many of our courses have higher requirements.
Please see our English Language requirements pages for full details, including the alternative English language qualifications we accept.
You can find out all the necessary details about our international foundation programmes on our dedicated webpages .
Alternatively, we are able to consider a wide range of external international foundation programmes for undergraduate entry.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/contextual-admissions-eligibility-checker:
Check your
                                eligibility by answering a few simple questions below

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/deadlines:
You can find key dates and deadlines below.
Click here for Pre-sessional English dates and deadlines .
September 2024
UCAS applications open
15 October 2024
UCAS application deadline for medicine and dental courses
29 January 2025
Application deadline for equal consideration for the majority of Queen Mary courses.
Applications after this deadline will still be considered for the majority of Queen Mary courses and should be made via UCAS.
26 February 2025
UCAS Extra opens.
Find out more about UCAS Extra .
4 June 2025
If you received all your decisions by the 14th of May you must respond to your offer by this date.
If you didn’t receive all your decisions by this date or applied late please see UCAS Key Dates for further information.
30 June 2025*
Deadline for accommodation applications *to be confirmed
5 July 2025
Clearing opens.
4 September 2025
Deadline to meet all conditions of your offer.
If you've received an offer from Queen Mary, please provide your results by this date.
12 September 2025
CAS deadline
Latest date for students applying for a visa overseas to request a CAS number.
Any overseas applicants applying for a visa overseas who require a CAS must request their CAS within sufficient time.
We will not normally issue a CAS to anyone applying after this date.
* To be confirmed
15 September 2025
Welcome Week begins
22 September 2025
Teaching begins
6 October 2025
Deferral deadline
If you would like to defer you place to September 2026, please inform the Undergraduate Admissions team by this deadline.
Enrolment deadline
Any students joining Queen Mary University must have enrolled by this date.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholder:
Now you have applied and received your offer from Queen Mary, these pages will guide you through your next steps

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholder/nextsteps:
Now you have your offers back from universities you need to start making decisions and planning.
This page has key information on what you need to do next.
Speak to current undergraduate students about anything that's on your mind
There are two main types of offer you will receive:
Conditional Offer - You will need to meet the academic and non-academic conditions of your offer before you can be accepted onto the course.
Unconditional Offer - You have already satisfied the academic and non-academic conditions and are eligible to attend the course.
We may make you a change of course offer for a different programme to the one you applied to, which will either be conditional or unconditional.
This could be due to:
Although you can apply for up to five choices in UCAS, once you receive all your decisions back from those choices you need to decide which offers you wish to accept.
You need to choose one Firm choice and, if your Firm choice is a conditional offer, you can select an Insurance choice as well.
Further advice can be found on the ' making the right decision ' UCAS page.
This should be the university you want to attend the most and you believe you will be able to meet your offer conditions.
Even if your first choice university has lower requirements, you may still want to choose it as your Firm choice if that's where you want to study.
By firmly accepting an offer you are making a commitment to taking that place if you meet the conditions of your offer.
Usually, you would choose an offer which has lower requirements than your Firm choice to give you some security if you do miss the conditions of your Firm choice.
Although this is a 'back up' choice, you should try to choose a university that you would still be happy to attend in case you do not meet your offer conditions.
For further information see UCAS pages:
Once you have firmly accepted your offer, you can apply for accommodation .
The deadline to apply for accommodation is 30 th June .
Check out our first year undergraduate accommodation guarantee criteria and information on how to apply.
Get your finances in order!
For information on course fees, funding your studies, and scholarships and bursaries, check our fees and funding pages.
Need a Student visa?
You can start preparing now:
To be able to request a CAS number:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholder/changes:
We understand that sometimes you need to change your application status with us, whether you need to defer your offer for a year, change your course choice or withdraw completely.
Keep reading to find out what you need to do.
Once you have submitted your applications, you can still update your details within your UCAS Hub .
If you need to update your application details including:
Please see UCAS guidance on making changes to your UCAS application for further information.
If you would like to:
*Please note that it is not always possible for us to comply with your request.
You need to contact your Admissions team directly by email and include:
Please ensure you email your request using the email account you applied from.
If somebody is emailing on your behalf, they must be listed as a nominated person on your UCAS application you must have provided us consent by email.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholder/yourresults:
This page is all about how to send in your results once you get them and advice on what to do if you do miss the conditions of your offer.
If you have applied through UCAS , some results are verified and sent directly to us which means you will not need to send these in.
The qualifications that UCAS provide to us include:
A full list of qualifications can be found on UCAS .
If you are taking qualifications that will not be provided to us by UCAS, including any English Language proficiency tests, you will need to send us your final results.
The final deadline to provide results is 5 September 2025 .
If you are unable to meet this deadline you must inform us immediately and include the date you will be able to provide your results.
At our discretion, we may be able to extend this deadline.
See UCAS for further information on your options after you receive your results.
Once we recieve your results our Admissions Officers will process your confirmation decision.
This involves assessing whether your final grades meet the conditions that we set out in your offer.
There are the following possible outcomes:
Please don't panic!
Even if you have not met the conditions we stipulated in your offer please still provide your results to us so our Admissions Team can make an assessment.
In some cases we may still be able to offer you a place on the course you applied for or we may be able to offer you a place on an alternative programme.
Check your UCAS Track to see if your place has been confirmed.
If you do not meet the conditions of your offer, our Admissions Team will assess your final results and see if you are eligible for another programme at Queen Mary.
We may then make you a change of course offer.
This will be visible on your UCAS Track and you will need to make a decision on whether to accept or decline this alternative offer.
If you accept, your place will be confirmed with Queen Mary for this alternative programme.
If you decline, you will either be placed with your insurance choice (depending on the confirmation decision they have made) or be in Clearing.
If you have requested a review or appeal of your exam results (e.g.
a remark) you must let us know as soon as possible including when you will expect to hear back.
You will then need to provide us with your updated grades once you have them.
Your grades may be updated and verified on UCAS but we will need you to notify us of the change so we can check.
If you need to provide us your results, this could be in the form of:
If you missed the conditions of your offer and we made your application unsuccessful but you then submit a request for a review or appeal of your results, we may be able to reconsider your place at Queen Mary if:
Please see the UCAS page on exam reviews and appeals for further information.
Note that there is separate guidance for programmes in the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholder/beforeyouenrol:
Getting ready to start your life as a new student?
This page directs you to some of the important information for new students and should answer some of the questions you may have.
Visit our pages for New Students to get all the information you'll need
If you have successfully secured a place at Queen Mary, the next step will be to complete your Online Enrolment in MySIS .
The Admissions team will normally send out enrolment information in late August/early September so please do not panic if you do not recieve anything before this.
For more information about enrolment, please visit our Enrolment webpages .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/openday/on-campus-open-days:
Our on-campus Open Days are your chance to visit our Mile End campus and experience what it's like to be a student at Queen Mary.
Our next open day will take place on Saturday 4 October 2025 10am - 4pm (BST).
Join us to:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/openday/online-open-days:
You can now experience our on-demand Open Day anytime — whenever it suits you!
Get ready to explore Queen Mary like never before, all from the comfort of your own space.
Dive into a wealth of content, including in-depth insights into our programmes, tips for crafting a standout application, virtual tours of our vibrant campus, and guidance on finding the perfect accommodation.
Ready to start your journey?
Click the link below to register and access the platform.
Begin exploring Queen Mary today!
On-demand Open Day
Join us on a virtual tour around Queen Mary’s campuses.
You’ll get a taste of what it’s like to study at one of the UK’s most vibrant and diverse universities, right in the heart of London.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/support-for-students:
Support services are here to help you get the most out of your time with us.
You can receive help for academic and course related problems as well as health and personal issues.
Whether you’re looking for revision tips or a mentor to help you settle as a student, support, help and guidance is part of life at Queen Mary.
Your health and happiness is important.
Learn how we support you on all matters concerned with your wellbeing, including information about our Advice and Counselling Service, our Disability and Dyslexia Service and faith at Queen Mary.
From one-to-one tutorials, learning development workshops to peer learning, we provide lots of support to help you make the transition to your new level of study.
Can’t get your head around Student Finance and how it all works?
Our Welfare Advisers have specialist training to offer you advice on a range of financial, welfare and legal issues, including immigration advice for international students.
We aim to prepare you for life when you graduate.
Whether you need help finding work-experience, setting up your own business or want to learn more about postgraduate study, we can put you on the right path to fulfilling your future ambitions.
Every school at Queen Mary University of London has a dedicated Student Support Contact who can offer advice on matters you feel may be impeding your ability to study.
Our Student Enquiry Centre is here to assist you with specific queries you might have whilst studying with us.
They provide information and guidance on student records, your finances, timetables and exams, official documents, immigration, discounted travel and much more.
Queen Mary students can take advantage of our extensive library facilities.
Our 24-hour Library in Mile End recently underwent a £1.5million refurbishment, providing even more study and computer spaces.
Medical and dental students can make use of the specialist medical libraries at Whitechapel and West Smithfield (site of Barts hospital).
All our students have access to the University of London’s Senate House Library in Bloomsbury.
For a full list of QMUL support services, please see our Student Services A-Z.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/feesandfunding:
Find out more about tuition fees, student loans and how Queen Mary can give you financial guidance and support.
For further guidance, we offer an Advice and Counselling Service for individuals.
The service is confidential, and can be used anytime before starting your course and throughout your studies at Queen Mary.
We particularly encourage students from a care background, or who otherwise have no contact with their family, or who are living alone in the UK to contact us for advice before starting their course.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/feesandfunding/tuitionfees:
There are different tuition fees for our undergraduate courses.
What you pay depends on whether you come from the UK, the EU or the rest of the world.
These rates apply to new and current students from the UK.
From September 2025:
Until September 2025:
(*) Please refer to our page Tuition fees from September 2025 for more information and FAQs.
If you are from the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, you are charged a higher rate for the clinical years of the MBBS and BDS programmes.
If you are an MBBS student who transfers to Queen Mary for one year as part of an intercalated degree programme, you pay the same fee rate as for the rest of your MBBS.
For information about fee liability for EU/EEA/Swiss nationals starting courses in 2025/26 please refer to the Admissions fee status assessment web pages and the Fees and Funding page .
Fees for international students vary depending on the course.
You will find details of fees for international students on each course page in our course finder .
Queen Mary may increase university fees for international students by a standard amount each year.
The inflationary increase for international university fees in 2025-26 will be 3%.
For information regarding the increase in fees for UK undergraduates from September 2025, please refer to our webpage Tuition fees from September 2025 .
If you start your course on or after September 2025 the tuition fee will be £9,535.
£24,250 for 2025-26 if you are starting the one-year pre-Masters Graduate Diploma in Social Sciences and Humanities, or Economics and Finance.
A few courses include compulsory field trips, which have a separate fee in addition to your tuition fees.
These fees cannot be covered by a tuition fee grant or loan from the Student Loans Company.
For more information, please contact the relevant department or school (contact details can be found on each course page).
Information on how to pay
If your fees are more than £1,000 per year, you can pay in instalments.
Fee status determines the rate of fees throughout studies at Queen Mary.
Our regulations are updated every year, you can access a list of present and past University fee regulations here

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/feesandfunding/funding-your-studies:
Going to university is a big investment in your future.
Loans, grants and bursaries can offer you financial support while you study.
The UK government provides a package of financial support for undergraduate students, called Student Finance.
We have written a guide all about how much funding you can get, who is eligible, how to apply, and how repayments work.
If you are a medical and dental students - please read our specific guide .
You may also be eligible for UK government Student Finance depending on your circumstances.
Please check our guidance for EU, EEA and Swiss nationals .
It is also important to understand your rights to live in the UK and whether you need immigration permission to study.
Please read our guidance.
If your tuition fee status is overseas please read our funding information for international students.
You may be care experienced or otherwise not in contact with your family (estranged).
We will help you transition to university and support you throughout your course.
We can help you apply for your Student Finance.
Please see our web pages below which explain the available support, and how to access it:
Care experienced students
Students without family contact
Students from a refugee or asylum background
Managing your money is an important part of your student life.
Our Advice and Counselling service provides confidential advice and guidance to help you with this.
We can help you work out whether you are eligible for funding and how much money you will get.
We support prospective students as well as current students, so you can contact us anytime before you have enrolled.
You can find useful information in our guides:
Undergraduate funding
Additional funding you may be eligible for
How to plan your budget
Money saving ideas
What to do if your student finance is delayed

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/feesandfunding/find-a-scholarship:
Studying at university is a big investment in your future.
At Queen Mary, we believe education should be for everyone, whatever your background.
We provide a wide range of scholarships and bursaries to support our students.
You can search our database by country or academic school.
*PLEASE NOTE THAT WE ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE 25/26 COHORT*
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences are pleased to offer funded PGT studentships to talented UK applicants from a Black and Global Majority background who may be interested in a research career and/or further postgraduate study.
The term "global majority" refers to all ethnic groups except white British and other white groups.
This includes people from Black, Asian, mixed, and other ethnic groups who are often racialized as "ethnic minorities".
As part of this Queen Mary University of London and Scape initiative, Scape are pleased to provide one ensuite and one studio room for the 25/26 academic year, at either Scape Mile End or Scape Shoreditch.
For more details about the accommodation, please visit http://www.scape.com/ Scape’s Booking Terms and Conditions can be found here: Scape
The Trust awards bursaries of up to £5,000 a year for UK university postgraduate students, who are in financial need, and whose parent or spouse is a commercial traveller, pharmacist or grocer, or the applicant themselves are employed in this capacity.
The Trust award bursaries of up to £3,000 a year for UK university students, who are in financial need, and whose parent or spouse is a commercial traveller, pharmacist or grocer, or the applicant themselves is employed in this capacity.
Queen Mary University of London works in partnership with the Unite Foundation to offer accommodation scholarships to young people who are care experienced or who are estranged from their families.
The scholarship provides up to three years of free, year-round accommodation at Rahere Court .
Queen Mary University of London is offering tuition fee and maintenance support for up to two undergraduate students who are asylum seekers or have a temporary immigration status awarded as a result of a claim for asylum but outside of the immigration rules, studying on degree programmes in the Faculty of Science & Engineering or the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences.
This is a means tested scholarship for permanent residents in the inner district of City of London or London Borough of Tower Hamlets who have lived there for at least three years.
This is a means tested bursary for permanent residents (at least 3 years) in the City of London, the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, the London Borough of Newham or the London Borough of Hackney or students who have attended the Drapers' Academy Sixth Form in the London Borough of Havering.
This is a means tested bursary for permanent residents (at least three years) in the City of London, the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, the London Borough of Newham or the London Borough of Hackney.
This is a means tested scholarship for permanent residents in the London Borough of Hackney who have lived there for at least three years.
Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) works closely with Chevening - the UK government’s flagship international scholarships scheme with over 40 years of history aimed at developing global leaders - to provide a large number of full scholarships for study on our one-year Master's courses.
Queen Mary University of London is delighted to offer Global Talent Scholarship s worth £ 5 , 000 for high achieving postgraduate taught offer holders joining us in September 202 5 /26 .
Queen Mary University of London is delighted to offer Global Talent Scholarship s worth £3,000 for highly qualified undergraduate offer holders joining us in September 202 5 .
Walter Oldershaw Award (up to £3,000 - for Home/EU/International students): eight awards available for masters degrees offered by the School of Geography.
Worshipful Company of Water Conservators bursary (up to £4,000 - for home students) on the MSc Water and Environmental Management degree programme.
The Children of Alumni Loyalty Award gives £1000 of  year 1 overseas fees for children of international alumni.
We pleased to offer a tuition fee concession to all asylum seekers or children of asylum seekers who meet the eligibility criteria.
This is a means tested bursary for residents in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets of at least 3 years unless you are a refugee on the Ukraine or Afghan scheme.
Our award is for Queen Mary University London Home fee-status students looking to study a postgraduate taught programme within the School of Economics and Finance a nd covers the difference between the UK fee and the UK Masters Loan.
Queen Mary University of London is proud to introduce the President’s Global Scholarships , offering £10,000 to highly qualified postgraduate taught offer holders joining us in September 2025.
Created to offer support to our Black African and Caribbean heritage applicants from socio-economically challenged backgrounds.
Queen Mary’s Centre for Commercial Law Studies is pleased to be able to offer a progression scholarship for graduate LLB law students from Queen Mary and other University of London institutions.
The scholarship applies to those who have achieved a 2.1 or above in their LLB Law degree and is subject to checks by our admissions team.
Access to education is one contributing factor leading to the underrepresentation of women in Economics and Finance.
Therefore, the objective of this programme is to help address this situation by providing opportunities for women globally to continue with their studies in Economics and Finance.
The Stationers' Foundation offers bursaries annually to postgraduate students on the courses listed below.
Successful students receive a bursary of up to £9,000.
Every effort will be made to offer mentoring during their studies, from an appropriate member of the Stationers’ Company.
On successful completion of their Masters programme Bursary Recipients will be offered the Freedom of the Stationers’ Company and will be expected to participate in the life of the Company.
Payment of the annual membership fee will be waived for the first three years.
The Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers, usually known as the Stationers' Company, is one of the livery companies of the City of London.
The majority of company members work in, or supply, the paper, print, publishing, packaging, office products, newspaper, broadcasting and online media industries.
The School of Economics and Finance are offering up to 20 scholarships of varying amounts (up to full tuition fees), to outstanding applicants from the MSc Economics programme.
The School of Law is pleased to be able to support our Thai student community who come to Queen Mary and study their LLM.
Women in STEM scholarships offer women researchers from eligible countries the chance to continue their studies in STEM with a one-year, fully funded scholarship to complete a master's degree at a UK university.
Queen Mary is one of the largest supporters of the China Scholarship Council (CSC) in the UK and awards 60 joint QMUL-CSC PhD scholarships every year.
The Students’ Union Talented Athlete Programme aims to support high-performing athletes who are studying for a world-class degree at Queen Mary.
Applicants must have a place at Queen Mary University of London.
The scholarships are available for existing students at all levels as well as students who have places to study.
Students applying will be assessed against the Sekforde House Trust criteria.
Our Masters are worth £3,000 for highly qualified home postgraduate taught offer holders joining us in September 2025.
Historic Royal Palaces (HRP) truly values a diverse workforce and wishes to make careers in the heritage sector more accessible to people from all communities.
It also aims to help ensure everyone feels the palaces and heritage are for them and make them accessible and relevant for all.
ANII (National Research and Innovation Agency of Uruguay) and Queen Mary are co-funding postgraduate scholarships for Uruguayan students to study any 1-year Masters or PhD programme.
The Jean Monnet Scholarship Programme aims at increasing the number of experts in the EU field and supporting Turkey’s administrative capacity-building efforts for the effective implementation of the EU acquis.
COLFUTURO is a Colombian non-profit foundation that provides financial support and increases the possibilities of Colombian citizens to access high-quality postgraduate study programs abroad.
Queen Mary is delighted to be working with the Egyptian Bureau for Cultural & Educational Affairs to offer PhD scholarships across a variety of disciplines.
Commonwealth Split-site Scholarships are for candidates from low and middle income countries, as classified by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC), in the Commonwealth, to conduct research at a university in the UK for 12 months.
Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes (The German Academic Scholarship Foundation) is Germany's largest and most prestigious scholarship foundation.
Fully funded PhD studentships for applicants who are from a British black, asian or ethnic minority background.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships are for candidates from low and middle income Commonwealth countries, for three years of full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
National Program of Scholarships and Educational Loans (PRONABEC), funds Peruvians to study for a Master's or Doctorate studies at the 400 top universities in the world.
Queen Mary part-funds a number of awards in conjunction with ANID (National Agency for Research and Development).
This scholarship is available to Masters and PhD applicants from Chile, in any subject.
We are offering fully-funded PhD studentships in all areas that fall within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences for September 2025 entry.
Part-time applicants and current first-year students are eligible to apply.
Queen Mary University of London, in partnership with MABECS, is pleased to offer two full fee scholarships to outstanding Malaysian postgraduate taught master's students for the 2025/26 academic year.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships for high-income Commonwealth countries, for three years of full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
Queen Mary has partnered with the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) to fund PhDs in our Faculty of Science and Engineering and Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
You will be automatically assessed for this bursary using the information you provide to Student Finance England (or equivalent regional student funding authority)
CONAHCyT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología) offers scholarships to Mexican students wishing to study postgraduate programmes in a broad range of subject areas.
As a proud partner of CONAHCyT, Queen Mary University London welcomes a diverse cohort of Masters and PhD students every year.
Additionally, scholarship opportunities are also available through the jointly funded CONAHCyT-FUNED and CONAHCyT- FIDERH schemes.
A fully funded bursary is available for a student to study on the MSc in Plant & Fungal Taxonomy, Diversity and Conservation.
This opportunity is aimed at students with an interest and background in tropical African botany.
Commonwealth Masters Scholarships are for candidates from low and middle income Commonwealth countries, for full-time study at a UK university.
Queen Mary is delighted to be working with The Republic of Turkey Ministry of National Education to offer Masters and PhD scholarships across a variety of disciplines.
The aim of the Economics and Finance Placement Scholarship is to support home students from the School of Economics and Finance with a low household income to take the year in industry programme.
Queen Mary University of London, in partnership with the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan will offers up to 15 scholarships per year to Pakistani students wishing to enrol in PhD research programmes at Queen Mary.
The Flying Start Financial Bursary is aimed at supporting students with the day-to-day costs of university life.
At PwC, the development and wellbeing of people is paramount, and the company are delighted to be able to award such a substantial bursary to support our students with their studies in accountancy.
To come up with and complete a project that is consistent with the aims of the Brun Bear Foundation.
More information on the Simon Shades scholarship can be found on the website https://www.brunbearfoundation.uk/the-simon-shades-award
Residents of the Ocean Estate in Stepney starting an HE course can apply for an Ocean Estate Bursary of up to £3000.
Visit website Ocean Estate Bursary Scheme
This award was created after the founder of the Vasyli Foundation and world-renowned podiatrist, Phillip Vasyli, passed away in 2015.
As part of his legacy, he wished to further the education of podiatrists in the field of podiatric sports medicine.
It is available to UK resident Podiatrists to gain a Postgraduate Diploma or an MSc in Podiatric Sports Medicine at Queen Mary University of London.
The Energy & Climate Change Law Institute is pleased to offer two partial tuition fee scholarships of £7,500 each for the September 2024 intake, for students wishing to follow the LLM in Energy and Climate Change Law.
The Energy & Climate Change Law Institute is a leading postgraduate law school within the Centre for Commercial Law Studies at Queen Mary University of London.
The aim of the Institute is simple- to provide a first class student experience; with world class teaching, a broad curriculum anchored in the real world of the energy sector; and to be a leading voice in the law and regulation of the energy transition.
This scholarship will cover a third of the tuition fees for the LLM Art, Business and Law entry.
If you are a Queen Mary graduate you may be eligible for £1,000 off your postgraduate degree tuition fees for the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry or a 10% discount for programmes in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences and programmes in Faculty of Science and Engineering.
We offering Medical Research Council studentships on Digital Technologies, Informatics for Health, Advanced Therapeutics and Precision Medicine related to cancer and inflammation medicine.
The School of Law offers a range of scholarships and bursaries for undergraduate students.
This prestigious award is bestowed in honour of the founder of the Centre for Commercial Law Studies, Professor Sir Roy Goode.
The successful scholarship candidate will receive a half tuition fee waiver.
The John Abernethy (Barts) Scholarships for 1st degree undergraduate MBBS and BDS students and are awarded to Home students.
The London NERC DTP is a partnership of nine prestigious research organisations across London, funded by the Natural Environment Research Council.
The DTP currently funds 142 PhD students in natural science PhDs.
The Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation was created in 2007 and grants academic scholarships for talented and promising young Egyptian men and women to pursue master degrees abroad in all fields of study.
Fundacion Guatefuturo (GUATEFUTURO) offers scholarships for Guatemalans to study abroad.
The COSARAF Foundation is pleased to announce the launch of the Sheikh Family Scholars’ Fund for Muslim undergraduate home students in financial difficulties.
The Economic & Social Research Council (ESRC) funds the London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS DTP) for PhD or Masters+PhD study at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub:
We understand that you may need more information about the application process and our Russell Group learning community before making an application.
Browse our resources below!
You can also download our latest Undergraduate Prospectus 2025 here .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub/taster-events:
Our academic schools hold a range of taster events, student panels and alumni discussions throughout the year to give you a taste of the subjects we teach.
While you're waiting why not find out more about Queen Mary by joining our On-Demand Open Day?
Find out more via the link below.
Our Undergraduate On-Demand Open Day
If you have a query about a course, your application or other university service, you can get in touch via our Contact us page.
Contact us

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub/meet-us:
Join us on campus, at an external event or online to talk through your study options at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub/contact-us:
Contact details on this page includes:
Find general contacts
You can arrange a 15-minute call with a member of our outreach team to answer any specific questions you have about our study programmes, student life, accommodation options and more.
Please note that this service is only available to UK enquirers at the moment.
Request your call back
Follow us on our social media channels to stay up-to-date with our news and events.
We also hold regular student takeovers to show you what life is like here and give you information about the application process.
Our Schools and Institutes webpage contains a list of all of our academic school websites, where you can find specific contact information such as postal addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses and social media channels.
Contact our schools
You also have the option of speaking with current students.
This is your opportunity to learn about student life, our programmes, accommodation and more - all from the comfort of your own home.
Meet our students online

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub/chat-to-current-and-former-students:
Our past and present students are on hand to answer all your questions about academic and student life at Queen Mary.
You can chat to current students spanning a range of programmes and nationalities via our Unibuddy platform.
This is a great way to find out what life is like here and gain first-hand knowledge of the subject area(s) you are interested in.
Connect with current students online
To explore student life at your own leisure, explore our Unibuddy blog .
Students who have now graduated are also available to chat with you online via the Queen Mary Network.
They can tell you all about their career trajectory since leaving university and give you insights into student and academic life.
Join the Queen Mary Network

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/future-students-hub/request-a-call-back:
If you have any specific questions on studying at University and Queen Mary, you can arrange a 15-minute call with a current student.
They are able to answer your questions about our study programmes, student life, accommodation options and more.
This service is only available to UK enquirers/applicants at this time.
If you are from overseas, you can learn more about international entry requirements and in-country contacts on our dedicated international webpage .
Members of the team are available to talk with you on Tuesdays and Thursdays 1-4pm (BST/GMT) .
Please note that this excludes public holidays such as bank holidays.
You can find more information about public holidays on our university calendar .
Request a call back

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/who-we-are:
Throughout our history we’ve put social justice and improving lives at the centre of our mission.
We embrace being part of one of the world’s great cultural and economic centres, but we’ll never forget our East End roots.
World-class education with no limits.
That's Queen Mary.
*Graduate Outcome Survey (2022)
With students from over 170 nationalities, Queen Mary is one of the most diverse institutions in the world, located in one of the most diverse cities in the world.
By the time you leave, you will have friends and contacts all over the globe.
Many of our undergraduate degrees allow you to extend the study of your chosen subject with an additional year abroad.
Queen Mary also has sites in China, Malta and Paris.
Our staff and students work together to create an outstanding, all-inclusive, world-class university, enhanced by the richness of our diverse student population.
We focus our efforts on four key areas: excellence in education, excellence in student engagement, excellence in employability and excellence in the learning environment.
Our students have gone on to make a difference in recognised organisations around the world.
As a Queen Mary student, you’ll be well placed to make the transition into your chosen career or further study.
From your first day here, we’ll work with you to give you the guidance, tools and opportunities you need to boost your skills and gain confidence.
We’ll tailor your development around your schedule and the things you want to do - whether that’s an industry placement, a part time job on or near campus, or improving your CV.
You’ll leave us ready to face the future on your terms.
At Queen Mary, you’ll:
• Get the experience you need with work placement schemes, industry placements and paid internships.
• Access the advice you need .
That could be a career choice or interview workshop, or through being mentored by a Queen Mary alumnus.
• Find a job to supplement your studies.
You can find flexible work either on or off campus through our job agency, and you’ll always be paid the London Living Wage.
Our Careers and Enterprise team support you for two years after you graduate, and will help you get the edge you need in today’s job market.
We provide workshops and guidance to help you apply effectively for work experience and graduate jobs, events where you can meet employers from across the city, award-winning work experience programmes to help you gain invaluable skill and financial and other support to help you start or grow your own business or social enterprise.
If you have an original idea and dream of developing it, we’d love to help you.
QIncubator is Queen Mary’s eight-week programme for start-ups and social enterprises.
You’ll have access to funding opportunities – including £10,000 in equityfreeawards – and programmes and events, which support you in bringing your business idea to life.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/access-and-participation-plan:
As a provider registered with the Office for Students (OfS), Queen Mary is required to produce and publish an Access and Partipation Plan.
The Office for Students is the independent regulator of higher education in England.
Queen Mary is listed as a registered provider in the Office for Students (OfS) register of English higher education providers.
Our access and participation plan outlines our approach to improve the equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in, and progress from higher education.
Our plan includes:
Our current access and participation plans are available to download below.
You can find all of our previous Access Agreements on the OfS website.
Access and Participation Plan(s)
Fee Summaries
Impact Reports

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught:
We can guarantee accommodation for all new postgraduate applicants starting in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/why-choose-qmul:
Ranked 14 th in the world and 5 th in the UK for research quality (THE 2024) our globally renowned research stretches across all we do.
We’re at the forefront of research into the opportunities and risks of AI, informing the world’s transition to low-carbon energy and pioneering new drugs to treat cancer.
92% of Queen Mary’s research was ranked as either internationally excellence or world leading in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (2021).
As a member of the prestigious Russell Group were recognised as a leading research-intensive university.
You’ll be taught by academics delivering the innovations of tomorrow, and study masters programmes informed by the latest breakthroughs we’ve made.
We continually invest in our campuses to ensure that all our students have access to the most up-to-date teaching and research facilities.
Major campus developments include the iconic Blizard Building , home to some of the largest open-plan laboratories in Europe, and our Dentistry Building , the UK’s first new dental school in forty years.
Students have access to industry standard software and facilities to ensure they graduate with the skills and co nfidence for the professional world.
These include Bloomberg Trading and Behavioural labs, specialist engineering, aerosp ace, an d bioscience laboratories, an observatory, cinema and performance spaces , and postproduction suites .
Our campuses offer dedicated teachin g and study spaces for postgraduate students, including our Graduate Centre a t the Mile End campus and postgraduate accommodation at Aspire Point in Stratford.
We offer a generous support package of funding for students studying a masters at Queen Mary, including our Global Talent and Masters Scholarship worth up to £5,000.
There are several other scholarships and bursaries available to students depending on the School and subject they are studying.
Find out more .
With students and staff joining us from 170 nationalities, Queen Mary is the most inclusive and diverse university within the Russell Group.
The diversity of our community is represented in all we do, from what and how we teach, to the ground-breaking research we are leading across the world.
We are committed to providing a learning environment where all our students feel welcome and represented
Our primary aim is to provide professionally focused masters programmes which will equip you with industry relevant skills and knowledge sought after by employers in the UK and overseas.
Through engaging seminars and lectures, informed by the cutting-edge research taking place at Queen Mary, we will help you build practical and versatile skills to succeed in your chosen career.
Masters students benefit from dedicated spaces and access to the latest technology and systems, to innovate and collaborate with their peers from around the world.
Our award-winning Careers and Enterprise team provide students with support, practical guidance, and opportunities to connect and network with industry leaders through mentorship, internship and work placement programmes.
94% of our masters and PhD graduates are in employment or pursuing further studies within fifteen months of graduation (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024).
We are one of 24 leading UK universities represented by the Russell Group, committed to maintaining the very best research, an outstanding teaching and learning experience, excellent graduate employability and unrivalled links with business and the public sector.
The Group attracts some of the capable students from all over the world as well as almost two thirds of available research funding in the UK.
The exceptional standards of research and teaching at Russell Group universities means that their graduates are especially valued by employers, giving you a head start when you apply for jobs or further study and resulting in Russell Group graduates earning an average of 10% more (Department For Education 2018).

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/applyfortaughtprogrammes:
You can apply online for all our masters programmes.
This page takes you through the process, and outlines the information and documents you will need.
Our postgraduate coursefinder contains all the information you need, including programme information, fees, entry requirements and applications links.
Please contact us if you have any questions about a course you are interested in.
You may apply for a maximum of two taught programmes or one taught and one research programme at Queen Mary per application cycle.
Please note that you can only study for one qualification at a time, so if you receive offers for both programmes you will be required to accept one and decline the other.
Click on the "Apply now" button on the relevant coursefinder page.
International applicants are welcome to contact one of our authorised local representatives for assistance with making an application.
They will guide you through the application process and can upload documents online.
They do not charge for their services.
You can find details of in-country representatives on your country page .
You will need to provide the following documentation as part of your application.
This list of documents may vary slightly from course to course.
Please provide a transcript for your degree study.
If you have not yet completed your degree please provide a transcript of your results achieved to date.
If you have completed more than one university qualification, please provide a transcript and certificate for both.
Verification of qualifications
In order to confirm your offer, we will need to confirm the authenticity of the documents you supply during the application process.
If you are submitting electronic transcripts, we normally use the  an online verification services offered by many universities.
If your previous university has an online verification service, please grant QMUL access to this.
Please note that we can't accept digital or electronic certificates/transcripts if your university doesn’t have an online verification service.
If we are unable to verify your electronic certificate or transcripts online, our admissions team will liaise with you on additional ways it may be possible to verify your documentation.
If your university doesn't have an online verification service, If you are submitting copies of physical documents, you should upload to your application clear, colour photographs or scans of your original qualification documents (not copies or certified copies).
These documents must:
We encourage you to submit your application early, as some programmes may become full and we will no longer be able to consider applications.
You can check our key dates and deadlines , but we will also update the relevant course page in this instance.
Students seeking financial support from Research Councils or other award giving bodies are advised to apply early.
Once you have submitted your application, you will have access to the MySIS applicant portal , where you can upload any further documents and contact the Postgraduate Admissions team if you have any queries about your application.
Find out more about what happens after you apply .
No, the university does not charge an application fee.
Information on the comparability of international qualifications can be found in the Entry Requirements section under the listings for each programme in the course finder .
Alternatively, we use Ecctis to check the equivalency of international and European qualifications.
For more information on the eligibility of your qualification, please contact Postgraduate Admissions .
You may be able to transfer credit from previous study into a postgraduate degree at Queen Mary where this is relevant to your chosen course and at the relevant academic level.
You can find further details in our Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy .
For further advice please e-mail Postgraduate Admissions , providing details about your previous study and a transcript confirming award of the credits.
You can still apply even if you haven't yet received your final transcript or your Certificate of English proficiency.
You will receive a conditional offer which will state what qualifications and grades you will need to achieve in order to meet our entry requirements.
Once you have received evidence of obtaining your qualifications you can upload them to our MySIS Applicant portal after which you will receive an unconditional offer once all conditions have been met.
Some postgraduate programmes may require applicants to have submitted their Reference letters before a decision has been made.
General terms and conditions for prospective students
In accordance with UK government consumer law advice for providers and students Queen Mary publishes general terms and conditions for prospective students.
When we make offers of admission, they are subject to the relevant terms and conditions.
Our terms and conditions can be found here .
Admissions Policies and Procedures
Our admissions policies and procedures can be found on our dedicated webpages .
Contract with Queen Mary University of London
The acceptance of your postgraduate offer marks the beginning of a contract between you and Queen Mary University of London.
Extenuating circumstances during the admission process

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/after-you-apply:
In this section
Once you have submitted your application, you will receive an acknowledgement email with your applicant ID and login details for the applicant portal.
You can use the applicant portal to track the status of your application, upload requested documents and send enquiries to the Admissions team.
The Applicant Portal
Please log in and check the applicant portal regularly as we will send all messages and notifications through the portal.
Once we have received your completed application and all the required documentation, we aim to inform you of a decision on your application within four to six weeks of receipt.
Please note it may take longer if we receive incomplete applications, and in our busy periods.
You may be contacted via the applicant portal to provide additional information.
We will notify you of our decision via the applicant portal.
You will receive an email asking you to log in to the applicant portal to view the decision.
If you are unsuccessful, we will provide you with the reason on the applicant portal.
If you receive an offer, congratulations!
You will be able to see and download your offer letter in the applicant portal under "View Application Decision".
Conditional Offer
Unconditional Offer
You will need to meet the academic and non-academic conditions of your offer before you can be accepted onto your chosen programme of study.
You have already satisfied the academic conditions of your chosen progamme of study.
Please note you may be required to fulfill additional requirements such as:
If required, this will be detailed in your offer letter.
You can contact the Admissions Team via the applicant portal
You can accept or decline your offer via the applicant portal.
Please note some programmes require you to pay a Tuition Fee Deposit within a specified deadline to confirm your place.
Please see further information below.
We reserve the right to withdraw offers which have not been accepted by this deadline.
If you have applied to more than one programme, you can only accept one offer of a place at Queen Mary.
You should upload your degree transcripts and certificates to the applicant portal.
If you have have any issues uploading your documents, contact us via the Applicant Portal .
If you wish to defer or withdraw your application, you can do this via the Applicant Portal .
Simply click on "Request a change" and follow the instructions.
Please note you must have met the academic requirements in order to defer your place.
Some courses require you to pay a deposit within a specified deadline to confirm your place.
We will provide details of the amount and how to pay in your offer letter, if applicable.
Please visit our Tuition Fee Deposits webpage for further information.
If you fall slightly below the required English language requirements for programme of study, you may be eligible to attend one of our Pre-Sessional English programmes.
Please note, these are only available for September 2022 start programmes.
You will be able to apply for a Pre-Sessional English programme through the applicant portal.
For more information on the entry requirements, please visit our English Language Requirements pages.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/deadlines:
Dates and deadlines of the application process are published below.
Applicants should note that these dates and deadlines apply to courses delivered on site at Queen Mary University of London.
The dates and deadlines for our Distance Learning courses may vary.
Please contact the Postgraduate Admissions team for further information.
You are encouraged to apply as early as possible to allow sufficient time for your application to be considered.
In the event that a course becomes full, we will no longer be able to consider applications.
We will update the relevant course pages on our Taught Programme Finder as soon as possible in such instances.
In addition to the deadlines specified below, some programmes have specific application deadlines - please check the relevant course pages on our Taught Programme Finder to check if there is an earlier deadline for the programme/s of interest to you.
If no deadline is specified then the below deadlines will apply.
Monday 9th December 2024
Deadline for postgraduate Overseas applications
Applications from overseas applicants requiring a Student Route Visa to study in the UK must be submitted by this date.
Some programmes have earlier application deadlines - please check the relevant course pages on our Taught Programme Finder to check if there is an earlier deadline for the programme/s of interest to you.
*Deadline for programmes within the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is Monday 16th December *
Thursday 2nd January 2025
Deadline for postgraduate Home and Distance Learning applications
Applications from Home applicants wishing to join a Taught Postgraduate course and all applicants wishing to study a Distance Learning course must be submitted by this date.
*Deadline for programmes within the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is Thursday 9th January *
Friday 3rd January 2025
Deposit deadline
Applicants holding an offer for any of our postgraduate taught programmes which require a tuition fee deposit will be required to pay their deposit by this deadline.
Applicants will not be issued with their CAS or be able to pre-enrol until the deposit is paid.
Monday 6th January 2025
Deadline for postgraduate applicants to provide documents to meet outstanding offer conditions
Applicants with a conditional offer will need to provide documents showing that they have met their conditions by this date.
*Deadline for programmes within the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is Monday 13th January *
Tuesday 7th January 2025
Deadline for postgraduate applicants to accept their offer
Monday 13th January 2025
Monday 13th January 2025 - Friday 17th January 2025
Enrolment week
All students joining Queen Mary University of London will be expected to complete their enrolment.
Monday 20th January 2025
Friday 31 st January 2025
Pre-enrolment deadline
Friday 7th February 2025
If you would like to defer your place to September 2025, please inform the Postgraduate Admissions team by this deadline.
Late September 2024
Applications for taught postgraduate programmes for entry in September 2025 open
Monday 23 December 2024 - Thursday 02 January 2025
University Christmas Closure
Online applications may be submitted during this period.
We will endeavour to respond to applicant enquiries and process newly submitted applications as soon as possible upon reopening in January.
March 2025
Applications for accommodation open
Monday 30 June 2025
Deadline for accommodation applications
Monday 14 July 2025
ATAS deadline
ATAS deadline.
Advised deadline for postgraduate overseas students who will require an ATAS certificate
Monday 1 September 2025
Some programmes have earlier application deadlines - please check the relevant course pages on our Taught Programme Finder to check if there is an earlier deadline for the programme/s of interest to you.
Monday 8 September 2025
Deadline for postgraduate distance learning applications and postgraduate Home applications
Monday 08 September 2025
Monday 15 September 2025
Monday 22 September 2025
Friday 3 October 2025
Any student joining Queen Mary must have enrolled by this date.
Monday 6 October 2025
Latest Date of Arrival
All International students must have arrived in the UK and uploaded documents to their MySIS portal to evidence this by this date.
Please note we advise you to provide your documents for confirmation by Monday 9th September 2025.
Providing them later than this date may impact your ability to enrol on time for the start of Welcome Week.
Friday 7 November 2025
If you would like to defer your place to January 2026 or September 2026, we encourage you to inform the Postgraduate Admissions team by this deadline.
Deferral requests submitted after this deadline may not be approved.
Monday 15th December 2025
Monday 5th January 2026
Monday 12th January 2026
Monday 12th January 2026 - Friday 16th January 2026
Monday 19th January 2026
Monday 2nd February 2026
Latest date of arrival
Any applicant, who is not a European Economic Area national or national of Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland or the United States, applying for a Taught Postgraduate course, may require an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) security certificate.
If you require an ATAS security certificate, you will need to obtain your ATAS certificate, before requesting a CAS.
Queen Mary University of London will not issue a CAS until your ATAS certificate has been obtained.
Applicants should note, during busy periods, it can take up to six weeks to receive your ATAS security certificate.
All students
We encourage you to travel to the UK as soon as you can do so.
There are huge benefits to attending our campus and you should make every effort to join us in person to make the most of your educational, social, and cultural experience at QMUL, in London and in the UK.
For more information about arriving in the UK, please visit our New Students webpages.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/tuitionfees:
Students enrolling on a postgraduate degree programme are charged tuition fees each year by Queen Mary.
The fees for our postgraduate taught programmes are listed on the course pages.
You will find tuition fees for each course listed on course pages , under the "Fees and funding" heading.
Some taught postgraduate programmes have non-standard rates.
These include certain masters degrees in subjects such as Business and Management, Economics, Finance, Law, Medicine and Dentistry.
Tuition fee rates for postgraduate certificate (PG Cert) and diploma (PG Dip) programmes are normally set at one-third and two-thirds respectively of the masters degree rate.
Students on a course lasting more than one year are charged fees each year.
An inflationary uplift is applied to the fees charged in the second year and subsequent years of the programme.
In 2023-24 fees for continuing students will reflect a 3% inflationary increase from 2022-23 fee rates.
When the inflationary increase is applied, fees are generally rounded up to the nearest £10.
Students on variable mode programmes are invoiced for the full programme fee at the start of the course, but have the option of entering into a payment plan to pay the fee over two years.
There is an administrative charge of £50 for payment plans.
Some courses include compulsory field trips, the cost of which is additional to the tuition fees.
You will be notified of any additional fee with your offer of admission.
Find out more about payment of deposits .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/funding_masters:
There are a number of sources of funding available for masters students for 2025-26 entry.
These include a significant package of competitive Queen Mary scholarships in a range of subject areas, as well as external sources of funding.
Our database enables you to search for scholarships via School/Country or both.
The UK Government Loans for Postgraduate study are in our Postgraduate Funding Guide .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/enquiries:
If you have any questions about programme content or your intended research area, then it is best to contact the relevant academic school.
Use the A-Z course finder to find contact details for your chosen programme or research topic.
You can also access the relevant school website, see our list of schools or contact our Admissions teams using the details below.
Telephone: 0207 882 8900
Hours of operation: 13:00 - 16:00, Monday to Friday
If you are a prospective applicant, please use the enquiry form.
Enquiry Form
Email: pgtadmissions@qmul.ac.uk
If you are current applicant, please contact the Admissions team via the applicant portal.
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry
Email: smdadmissions@qmul.ac.uk
If you have any specific questions, you can arrange a 15-minute call with a member of our outreach team.
They are able to answer your questions about our programmes, student life, accommodation options and more.
Members of the team are available to talk with you from Monday-Friday 1-4pm (BST/GMT) .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/ug-to-pg:
Are you are coming to the end of your undergraduate degree and thinking about your next steps?
If you’re considering further study, your Queen Mary University journey doesn't have to end.
Postgraduate study with us offers a range of benefits including discounts on tuition fees and an Alumni Loyalty Award for returning students.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/international-student-recruitment-flyers-2023-24:
PGR Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry [PDF 103KB]
PhDs in Chemistry [PDF 102KB]
PGR Research in Electronic Engineering and Computer Science [PDF 74KB]
PGR Research in Engineering and Material Sciences [PDF 94KB]
PGR Physics and Astronomy [PDF 98KB]
PGR in Psychology [PDF 95KB]
PGR Research in Biological Sciences [PDF 92KB]
PGR Research in Business and Management [PDF 95KB]
PGR Research in Drama [PDF 90KB]
PGR Research in Economics and Finance [PDF 85KB]
PGR Research in English [PDF 88KB]
PGR Research in Film [PDF 100KB]
PGR Research in Geography [PDF 90KB]
PGR Research in Law [PDF 94KB]
PGR Research in Modern Languages [PDF 86KB]
PGR Research in Linguistics [PDF 100KB]
PGR Research in Politics and International Relations [PDF 101KB]
PGR Research in History [PDF 98KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/why-choose-queen-mary/index.html:
When you join Queen Mary, you become part of a thriving research community of around 1,800 postgraduate research students, working with world-leading academics and contributing to understanding some of today’s most pressing global challenges.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/applying-for-a-phd:
Considering applying for a PhD?
Explore our advice below and see what sort of things you need to consider – from finding a supervisor to drafting a research proposal – we've got tips and advice to help you begin your PhD journey at Queen Mary.
One of the most important things to do before filling out an application is to find a good match with a supervisor or existing research group.
Most Schools advise that you make contact with a supervisor via email before submitting an application.
If you're applying for entry via a MRes programme, then this is not necessary.
To learn more about our PhD programmes, check entry requirements and find the applications forms, select your subject from the drop-down menu below.
If you applying to come as a visiting/associate student for part of your PhD, you need to apply via this page https://www.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/associate/
Before submitting an application, we encourage you to contact a potential supervisor via email.
When you write to them, they will be looking for certain things to ensure you are a suitable PhD candidate and will consider the following:
If you cannot find the research area you are looking for, or have any queries about the application process, you can either contact the School or our fill out an enquiry form and our PhD team will be in touch.
Entry requirements
Typically, the minimum entry requirement is an UK upper second class honours degree (2:1).
Some Schools/Institutes require a first class honours degree and/or a masters degree.
If your qualifications are not from a UK university, Queen Mary also considers recognised equivalent qualifications from accredited overseas institutions and equivalent professional qualifications.
Relevant work experience may also be taken into account.
If English is not your first language, please check your programme's English language requirements.
You do not need to meet this at the point of application.
You may provide evidence of your English level at a later date.
Funding You should ensure that you have a realistic plan to secure sufficient funding to complete the research and writing-up process within the normal time period.
This is usually three to four years for full-time programmes, and six to seven years for part-time programmes.
Many of our PhD students are funded by Queen Mary or one of the Doctoral Training Programmes.
Studentships cover your tuition fees and normally include an allowance towards living costs.
Studentships are advertised on our School/Institute websites, our Postgraduate Research Studentships page , Jobs.ac.uk and Findaphd.com .
Read more about PhD funding at Queen Mary.
If you are applying for an advertised project, you may not need to submit a proposal.
But if you are proposing your own project idea you will and this is a key part of your application.
Before submitting your application, it is likely that you will need to revise your proposal several times.
Whilst your potential supervisor will help you do this, it is important that you present them with as clear a proposal as you can when you first make contact with them.
Tips for writing a strong research proposal include:
Check the specific requirements (e.g.
word count) on the School/Institute webpages.
To get to the online application form, select your research area from the list above.
You will then be able to select an online application button specifically for your start date (e.g.
Semester 1, September 2021).
Each application should include the following:
If you are submitting electronic transcripts, we normally use the online verification services offered by many universities.
If you are submitting copies of physical documents, you should upload to your application clear, colour photographs or scans of your original qualification documents (not copies or certified copies).
Note: If you don't yet have your final degree certificates or proof of English then you can apply and upload these missing documents at a later date.
Include all the information you can at the time of applying.
References
We will contact your referee(s) by email to supply a reference.
However, a scanned colour copy of a reference provided on paper can also be provided either at the point of application or in response to the reference request email your referee will receive.
If your referee emails your reference to us we can only accept it if it is sent from a university or company email address (ie not Hotmail, Gmail etc).
Paper reference forms should be endorsed by an appropriate official stamp or on institution/company letterhead.
Alternatively, if your referee has agreed to provide an open reference letter, you can scan this and upload it in the upload document section of the online form.
What about international applicants?
International applicants are welcome to contact one of our authorised local representatives if they feel they need assistance in submitting their PhD application.
Our representatives can help you apply, ensuring you submit all of the requisite documents whilst also supporting you through the immigration process.
To find your local Queen Mary representative, see our country/region specific information .
Once processed, the School/Institute may get in touch with you directly to discuss your application and arrange an interview.
Those not short-listed for interview will receive a rejection message via the applicant portal.
The entire process from the submission of your application, to an invitation to discuss further, interview or decision, typically takes between six to eight weeks.
But if you applying for advertised funding, this Schools will not look at your applications until the deadline has passed.
If you need a decision by a given deadline in order to apply for external funding, please make this clear in your application.
You can download and read our Admissions Policies on the Policyzone.
Can I apply for more than one programme of study?
You may apply for a maximum of two taught programmes or one taught and one research programme at QMUL.
If you are applying online, you will need to submit two applications.
Please note: although you may apply for two programmes, under QMUL regulations you can only study for one qualification at a time.
If you receive offers for both programmes, you will be required to accept one and decline the other.
Is there a deadline for receipt of applications?
There is no fixed closing date for applications but you should remember that decisions on applications will be made as quickly as possible.
Students seeking financial support from Research Councils or other award giving bodies are asked to apply as early as possible and make it clear in their application the Research Council deadline.
Additionally students applying for QMUL Studentships are reminded that their applications must be in line with Research Degrees Office deadlines.
Please see our Postgraduate Research Studentship page and Postgraduate Research Deadlines page .
Is there an application fee?
No, QMUL does not charge an application fee.
Is my qualification recognised?
Our International Office has a list of countries/regions for which we have published admissions information online.
Please see our international students section.
Alternatively we use UKNARIC to check the equivalency of international and European qualifications: www.naric.org.uk What happens after I submit my form?
All complete applications will be considered by Admissions Tutors.
Providing you have included all the required documentation, we aim to inform you of a decision on your application within six to eight weeks of receipt.
Please note this can vary during peak application times (January – April).
Where can I find out more about English language requirements?
Read more about our English language requirements page .
Is there any help for applicants with disabilities?
Queen Mary University of London has a dedicated Disability and Dyslexia Service which offers advice, support and guidance for disabled students, including those with mental health difficulties and specific learning difficulties (eg dyslexia), from the point of application through to graduation.
This advice covers issues such as agreeing to the provision of reasonable adjustments, as well as accessing external sources of funding and support, such as the Disabled Student’s Allowance.
Our Disability and Dyslexia Service is represented at the various open days held across the year, but if you would like to discuss any aspects of support, you can contact the service at any time to request an appointment, either in person or over the phone.
Fill out our online form or contact us on the details below: Web: www.dds.qmul.ac.uk Tel: +44(0) 207 882 2756 Email: dds@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/funding_phd:
A PhD is a significant investment, but it is one that brings an invaluable personal experience and a wealth of professional opportunities upon your graduation.
PhD programmes typically take 3-4 years if you are studying full-time and 6-7 years if you are studying part-time.
Some of our students self-fund their tuition and living costs and this page outlines the tuition fees for each research programme.
For Home students , the tuition fee is the same across all courses and all universities in the UK.
For 2024 entry this is set at £4,786 per year for full-time students.
If you are not able to self-fund your studies, there are a range of different sources of funding available for PhD students at Queen Mary – in fact, we offer over 100 fully or partially funded studentships each year.
These include:
Planning your funding is an important element of the application process and we recommend that you begin to explore your funding options as early as possible.
Queen Mary's tuition fees vary depending on whether you are from the UK or EU, or are coming to study in the UK from further afield.
Please click the above link for full PhD tuition fee details.
The UK government introduced loans of up to £25,000 for English-resident UK nationals from 2018 onwards.
Read more about the loans here .
It is important to be aware that different funding bodies and organisations all have different deadlines: the majority of these will be between November and February prior to the commencement of your PhD project in September.
The majority of Queen Mary funded studentships close for applications in January each year.
Other funding opportunities do come up throughout the year, so please be sure to keep checking departmental PhD funding pages and www.findaphd.com where all opportunities are advertised.
Our Advice and Counselling Service have produced a detailed online funding guide for postgraduate students.
This guide includes everything you need to know about money when applying for and planning your postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/how-we-support-you:
The Doctoral College at Queen Mary University of London is committed to making sure that all students working towards research degrees are given access to the tools they need to enable them to conduct their research to the highest possible standards, and to develop as successful, independent researchers.
Excellent supervision is crucial to achieving your goals as a research student.
All our supervisors complete a programme of supervisory training, including regular update training, to ensure they offer our research students the best possible supervision.
All research students are provided with a supervisory team consisting of at least two supervisors who are able to offer both subject expertise and experience.
Your supervisory team will not only guide you in your research, but will help you to identify the research-specific and wider transferable skills you will need to become a successful independent researcher.
Read more about what supervisors will be looking for under Explore our PhDs or see the latest news from our students on our Doctoral College blog.
Our flexible training programmes – which are free – are tailored to the needs of different students, have been designed to meet and exceed the exacting requirements of the UK Research Councils, and the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.
We’ll also make sure you know about other opportunities with partner universities or through partnerships that will help ensure you will leave Queen Mary equipped to further your chosen career.
At Queen Mary, you’ll be able to choose from the following opportunities for training:
Queen Mary's Doctoral College encourages all our PhD students to explore the international research community and take every opportunity to extend their research networks overseas.
Whether you want to present at highly regarded international conferences, or visit research groups elsewhere, we can support this financially through our Postgraduate Research Fund, which provides funding of up to £2,000 to support your research.
Queen Mary has a Careers and Enterprise team that are here to support students and graduates with advice and support to set them on the right path – whether that’s in further study, work or research.
Read more about the specialist careers support available for researchers.
In addition to the facilities provided across our campuses, Queen Mary provides a range of student support services, including:
You can also find out how you can get involved in Queen Mary Students' Union - from sports and societies to advocacy and volunteering, our PhD students are a key part of our wider Queen Mary student community.
S&E PhD intro [PDF 2,728KB]
S&E PhD faculty intro [PDF 2,337KB]
HSS PhD into [PDF 2,242KB]
HSS faculty intro [PDF 514KB]
FMD intro to Queen Mary [PDF 3,006KB]
PhD Open Day faculty intro [PDF 997KB]
FMD funding and entry [PDF 727KB]

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/contact:
We are always happy to receive enquiries from prospective PhD students.
If you have any questions or queries which you can’t find the answer to on these pages, then please don’t hesitate to contact us for more information.
For general queries please email pgr-enquiries@qmul.ac.uk .
If you have any questions regarding the application process, please contact the Postgraduate Research Admissions Team: research-admissions@qmul.ac.uk
If your enquiry relates to a particular research area, we would suggest that you contact the relevant academic school or institute directly, using the contact details below.
If your enquiry relates to an application to Queen Mary that you have already started or submitted, please contact the Research Admissions team which is handling your application.
Queen Mary attends a wide variety of Education Fairs, Postgraduate Funding Conventions, and Student conferences both around the UK and overseas - come and meet us at one of these events.
Queen Mary is always happy to host prospective students and, if possible, we would recommend that you visit your potential supervisor and research group before enrolling.
Please get in touch with the relevant academic School or Institute directly (see the list of contacts above) to organise this.
We also run tours of our Mile End campus , led by current undergraduate students, several times a week.
These are free and can be booked online throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/deadlines:
You can apply online for all our Postgraduate Research programmes (doctorate or PhD).
This page outlines the key dates and deadlines for both Home/ European and International students applying to Queen Mary University of London.
Most PhD programmes at Queen Mary start in September-October or January each year.
Enrolment at different points in the year may be possible, for example, where funding for a specific project starts mid-year.
A small number of students start their programmes in late Spring (April/May).
If a non-standard start date is approved, please note that enrolment must be completed within two weeks of the programme start date.
Any applicant who is not a European Economic Area or Swiss national, applying for a Postgraduate Research course, may require an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) security certificate.
Further information on Queen Mary Research Studentships can be found on our dedicated webpages.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/associate:
It is possible to study at Queen Mary without enrolling on a full degree programme.
You will be classed as an associate (or "visiting") student for the time you are here.
This page takes you through how you can apply and outlines the information and documents you will need.
Please note that these programmes do not relate to Study Abroad applications which are dealt with separately by the Global Partnerships and Opportunities team, which manage admissions routes pertaining to semester/year-long study abroad from partner universities, with September and January admission points respectively.
You can find further information on the Study Abroad section of the website.
Associate study is available throughout the year, but registration will usually begin on the first working day of the month.
Some study may be aligned to module or cohort start date.
You can apply to study for up to 12 months.
Credit may be awarded for some postgraduate taught associate study options.
You must be currently enrolled on a postgraduate degree programme at another university.
The level of associate study you plan to undertake at Queen Mary must be the same as the postgraduate degree programme you are enrolled on (for example to apply for taught postgraduate associate study you must be enrolled on a taught postgraduate degree programme).
A minimum of an undergraduate degree with lower second class (or equivalent) is normally required for all postgraduate taught students and postgraduate research study of more than 6 months.
If your first language is not English, you must provide evidence of your English language proficiency.
The evidence required depends on the programme of study and length of visit.
If you are currently in the UK on a Student Route visa sponsored by another UK university, you will be required to provide:
If your studies require ATAS, you will also need to have a new ATAS certificate before you can enrol for your studies at QMUL.
Please see our University Fee Regulations .
Postgraduate Taught associate study:
Fees will vary depending on the number of modules you intend to take.
Please contact your chosen School/Institute for further details.
Postgraduate Research associate study:
Depending on your area of research, one of the following fee bandings will apply:
You will be notified which fee banding applies to you at point of offer.
College Charter states that our work shall be carried out in a spirit of tolerance, freedom of opinion, mutual concern and community service, and undertakes to avoid discrimination against any person on the grounds of religion, race, sex or politics.
The university has a policy statement on Equal Opportunities in Employment, which we are actively implementing.
Anti-harassment procedures have been agreed, aimed at eliminating incidents of racial or sexual harassment.
We welcome applications from students with additional requirements, and continue to invest money in improving facilities and accessibility.
A Guide for Students with Disabilities is available from the Disability Co-ordinator and further information about our provision for students is available at: www.dds.qmul.ac.uk All applications are considered on academic merit but, in order that we can offer you appropriate advice about services and facilities, it is important that you provide information about your particular needs at the application stage.
Please use the section on the application form to give details of any illness, disability or learning difficulties, such as dyslexia, as well as outlining the support you feel you will need to successfully complete your course of study.
When an offer is made, the College's Disability Co-ordinator may contact you to discuss your needs in more detail.
If you would like to visit the university before submitting an application, please contact the Disability Co-ordinator in the Welfare and Counselling Service.
There are many organisations who are happy to advise students preparing for Higher Education but a good place to start is SKILL:
The National Bureau for Students with Disabilities 336 Brixton Road, London SW9 7AA +44 (0)20 7274 0565
You can download and read our Admissions Policy and all related policies on our Policy Zone .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/openday:
The Global Engagement team regularly attend in-person, online and hybrid recruitment events to meet with students interested in studying with us and to answer any questions you may have about your application.
We are always pleased to meet prospective students and we very much hope you will be able to join us at one of these events.
Find out more

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/openday/your-masters-journey:
Embarking on a masters degree is a significant step towards advancing your education and career.
To support you in this exciting transition, we have organised a series of webinars that will provide valuable insights, practical tips and firsthand experiences from experts, current students and alumni of Queen Mary University of London.
Below, you'll find details on each webinar, including topics covered, dates and times.
Join us to gain the knowledge and confidence you need to successfully navigate your journey to a masters degree.
Considering a masters degree?
Hear from current Queen Mary students as they share their motivations, decision-making process, and the benefits of postgraduate study.
Learn about their academic journeys, student life in London, and tips for making the most of your time as a postgraduate.
We will cover:
Whether you’re from the UK or an international student, this webinar will provide valuable advice on taking your next steps towards postgraduate study.
**This event has now ended**
Watch the Recording
Planning to apply for a masters degree but unsure where to start?
This webinar is here to guide you through the entire application process and help you choose the programme that aligns with your goals at Queen Mary University of London.
This session will cover:
You will hear from our expert panel, including admissions specialists and current masters students, who will share practical advice and make the application process clear and manageable.
Whether you're a UK or international student, this session will give you the confidence to make an informed decision and submit a strong application.
Considering a masters degree but unsure how to fund it?
Join this webinar tailored for prospective masters students to explore the various funding options available.
You will hear from Queen Mary’s advice and counselling staff as they share expert financial guidance for UK students.
Don’t miss this opportunity to get practical advice to help fund your masters journey.
**This event has ended**
Planning to pursue a masters degree as an international student?
Join this webinar specifically tailored to the needs of students planning to study in the UK.
Discover the funding options available to help finance your studies.
Join us to hear expert financial advice from Queen Mary’s support staff and learn practical strategies to manage your finances whilst studying in one of the world’s most dynamic cities.
Starting your masters degree is an exciting experience, and Queen Mary is here to help you succeed.
Join this webinar to explore the wide range of support services and resources available to help you transition into postgraduate study and thrive both academically and personally.
Hear from our dedicated support teams and discover how Queen Mary equips masters students to succeed during their studies and beyond.
Whether you're from the UK or an international student, this session will give you the insights you need to make the most of your time with us.
Where can a masters degree in Humanities or Social Sciences take you?
Join this webinar featuring Queen Mary alumni and career experts who will share their professional journeys and insights into the job market for graduates in these fields.
Gain inspiration and guidance from Queen Mary graduates and career service professionals as you plan your next steps.
This session is ideal for UK and international students considering postgraduate study in the Humanities and Social Sciences.
Where can a masters degree in Science or Engineering take you?
Learn from Queen Mary alumni and career service experts about the pathways, skills, and opportunities available to STEM graduates.
Whether you aim to work in research, innovation, or industry, this webinar featuring Queen Mary alumni and career experts will help you enhance your careers and gain valuable insights into the job market for STEM graduates.
Considering a masters degree in Medicine or Dentistry?
Join this webinar to hear from Queen Mary alumni and career experts about the professional opportunities and advancements available in healthcare.
This session offers practical advice and market insights from Queen Mary alumni and career experts which will help you develop your career and understand life and work in healthcare and medical industries.
Your Masters Journey 2026 has finished, but you can find recordings of all our sessions above.
Please register to view all of this year's webinars.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/accommodation:
If you are a postgraduate, study abroad or Associate student, you can find out more about accommodation opportunities available to you on this page.
All new Postgraduate students joining Queen Mary in September 2024 for their first year of study, will be guaranteed accommodation in University halls of residence or with one of our partner providers, subject to meeting the eligibility criteria .
The majority of our postgraduate accommodation is en-suite single bedrooms but there are a variety of options available depending on your budget.
Our Residential Services and Support pages have further details of the available accommodation .
Should you have any questions about the accommodation, then please contact us stating your name and application ID number.
Click the link below to find out more about our accommodation.
Finding the right place to live is important - especially if you are moving away from home for the first time.
Aspire Point is home to 445 Queen Mary postgraduate students.
This development in Stratford will provide affordable living and study space in an iconic student residence with stunning views over London and the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Aspire Point is a short (20 minute) bus journey away from our Mile End campus.
We also offer postgraduate accommodation in Stepney Green with our partner provider, Unite Students, less than 10 minutes’ walk from our main campus in Mile End and a short journey to the popular areas of Brick Lane and Shoreditch.
Set alongside the picturesque Regent’s Canal, our campus offers facilities, including the Library, lecture halls, shops, cafes, the launderette and the gym.
With everything in such close proximity, our students are able to enjoy the ease that comes with campus life.
The campus environment makes for a strong and close-knit community.
There is always someone around to help, chat to or just point you in the right direction.
We also offer accommodation for our Medicine and Dentistry students at our Whitechapel and Charterhouse Square campuses.
Please refer to the Residences website for details of all Housing options and how to apply.
For students not living on campus, our Housing Services team can help you find suitable alternative housing options in the local area, which are plentiful.
This includes student house and flat shares, private student accommodation and homestay opportunities.
The team will provide you with lots of support and guidance to help ease your transition into university life.
They can also put you in touch with other students seeking off-campus accommodation .
Commuters won’t find themselves alone at Queen Mary; many of our students choose to commute to campus from Greater London and just outside London.
We even have a Commuters' Society , so you can get to know other people who are living at home and find a commuting buddy.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/alumni/the-queen-mary-network:
for Queen Mary alumni, students, staff and prospective students.
Register now .
Already a member?
Login .
You can also join the Queen Mary Network, where you can speak to graduates on the platform as Alumni Ambassadors.
This is your opportunity to get the lowdown on life at Queen Mary, life in London and life after Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/scholarships/database:
There are a number of sources of funding available for Undergraduate, Masters and PhD students for 2025/26 entry.
These include a significant package of competitive Queen Mary bursaries and scholarships in a range of subject areas, as well as external sources of funding.
Our database enables you to search for scholarships via study level, school, country or all.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/brexit/student-faqs:
(updated 9 April 2021)
As the UK has left the EU, you need to be aware of how this affects your permission to enter and live in the UK.
The rules are different depending on whether you moved to the UK before 31 December 2020 or afterwards.
Please see the detailed guidance from the Queen Mary Advice and Counselling Service to understand what you need to do, according to your circumstances.
Please note it is your responsibility to understand what you need to do and that there are important deadlines to be aware of.
There is also guidance on your rights in the UK in relation to working, healthcare, etc, and information about tuition fees and funding.
As the UK has left the EU, if you move to the UK after 31 December 2020 to study on a course of longer than six months you will need to apply for Student immigration permission .
If you have established residence in the UK before 31 December 2020 you need to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme in order to continue living in the UK beyond the application deadline of 30 June 2021.
Please refer to the detailed guidance on the Queen Mary Advice and Counselling Service web pages about:
The government is changing the rules on tuition fee status and Student Finance eligibility for students enrolling from September 2021 onwards.
Please see our guidance on the Advice and Counselling Service web page.
Erasmus+ Student and Staff Mobility
Under the Withdrawal Agreement negotiated with the EU, the UK will continue to participate fully in the current (2014-2020) Erasmus+ Programmes.
This means that the projects successfully bid for during the current programmes will continue to receive EU funding for the full duration of the project, including those where funding runs beyond 2020 and the end of the transition period.
Erasmus+ grants are available for the entire academic year 2021/2022 for Erasmus+ student and staff mobility.
Swiss European Mobility Programme (SEMP) will also be available during 2021/22.
The Turing Scheme will also provide funding for student exchanges and work placements taking place in 2021/22.
Students can find more information on the Global Opportunities Exchange Programmes pages .
Questions can be directed to Wiebke Leugers, Erasmus+ Manager ( w.leugers@qmul.ac.uk ).
Visit our media page for news and analysis from our Brexit and UK politics experts.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/about-summer-school:
Why not spend an unforgettable summer with Queen Mary University of London in one of the most exciting cities in the world, studying at our highly ranked university?

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/about-summer-school/about:
Queen Mary University of London is one of the UK's leading research universities, committed to improving social justice and achieving the previously unthinkable by bringing people from every walk of life to work together.
Queen Mary has always aimed to transform the lives of the working people of the East End through education, recreation and culture.
The university has grown considerably since its origins, joining with the distinguished medical colleges of St Bartholomew’s (est.
1123) and the Royal London Hospitals (est.
1740) to form Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry.
Now, we are a Russell Group university based in east London, teaching across the full disciplinary spectrum.
With staff and students from over 170 nationalities, we are one of the most diverse higher education institutions in the world and the only Russell Group campus-based university in London.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/what-can-i-study:
We offer courses from a wide variety of academic disciplines.
You can explore what is on offer by searching the list below.
If you want to see detailed information on what each class includes, click on the module you are interested in from the list below and the syllabus is located near the top of the overview section.
Classes run on Monday to Thursday, between 10am and 3pm so you will also have enough time for personal study and social activities.
Got a question?
Feel free to drop us a line at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk
Please note that the current course list is from 2025.
The course listing for 2026 is currently being planned and will appear here in due course.
This course investigates the alternative history or ‘repressed underside’ of British cinema and the ways in which these films engage with the history of Britain and its capital.
Session 1: 30 June - 18 July 2025
This module critically evaluates contemporary trends in the changing world of work.
We focus on these trends with a view to understanding their implications for work, employment and society.
Gain a profound overview of international law and its various areas, its relations to politics, and the current challenges of the international legal system.
Session 1: 30 June  - 18 July 2025
What do cultural collections tell us about the past?
Through on site visits to ten of London’s most important institutions we will explore this question.
Study machine learning by using the Python programming language and the TensorFlow TM programming toolkit.
(No programming background needed)
This course reads the work of Taylor Swift as, and in relation to, literature.
Session 1: 30 June -18 July 2025
This course will address the impact of trauma on mental health as a lifelong process interrupted in some significant way by the pandemic of COVID-19
Session 2: 21 July - 8 August 2025
This module aims to introduce students to some of these key debates, by providing an in-depth study of the legal and philosophical underpinnings of international criminal justice.
Get an expert introduction to the political theory, globalisation and the global political economy of health.
This module asks you to think about the different ways that we might define a city and to explore different perspectives on London inflected by mobility, migration, class and gender.
You will be studying London through visits, tours, talks, walks, screenings and events.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/how-to-apply:
Applications are now closed.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/how-to-apply/important-dates:
November 2025
Applications for the Queen Mary Summer School 2026 open.
31 March 2026
Those who have applied and paid before this date will receive our Early Bird discount fee - 10% off the total tuition fee.
25 May 2026
Applications for the Queen Mary Summer School 2026 close.
28 June 2026
Students can move into housing after 3 PM.
Members of the summer school team will be on campus from 3pm-6pm.
29 June 2026
Orientation/welcome day -  confirm your attendance and finalise your enrolment, attend orientation presentation and meet other students at our welcome event in the evening- it is mandatory to attend this day so please plan accordingly.
29 June - 17 July 2026
Session 1 teaching begins and ends.
19 July 2026
Students move out of housing by 9 AM
20 July 2026
Orientation/welcome day -  confirm your attendance and finalise your enrolment, attend the orientation presentation and meet other students at our welcome event in the evening- it is mandatory to attend this day so please plan accordingly.
20 July - 7 August 2026
Session 2 teaching begins and ends.
9th August 2026

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/how-to-apply/entry-requirements:
To be eligible for the Queen Mary Summer School, you must meet our entry requirements:
See below for our specific entry requirements:
These requirements are a guide and each application will be considered against a standard grading equivalency matrix for each country and/or institution
The English Language requirements for entry to Summer School, Study Abroad and Exchange Programmes (applications through the Global Partnerships and Opportunities Office) falls within the following English band:
See all accepted English tests that we deem equivalent to these IELTS, TOEFL and the Cambridge C1 Advanced scores.
If you are coming to join us for the Summer School, you would normally apply for Visitor permission , but please refer to our specialist immigration web page for more details on visa requirements
We welcome international qualifications and we consider every application individually on its academic merit.
If you would like to discuss your eligibility with the Summer School Team before submitting an application, you can contact us at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk .
To join our summer school you must be 18 years of age or older .
Please be aware that qualifications for summer school differ from the standard Queen Mary Admissions requirements.
Acceptance onto the Summer School does not qualify you for acceptance or advance standing admission into any other Queen Mary course, including other Study Abroad Programmes.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/how-to-apply/terms-and-conditions:
It is important that you read and download a copy of the Queen Mary Summer School 2025 Terms and Conditions which form the contract of service between you and us.
Queen Mary Summer School Terms and Conditions [PDF]
If you have any questions concerning the terms and conditions please email us at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk
You can also read and download a copy of the Queen Mary general terms and conditions from our website .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/housing:
As a Queen Mary Summer School student, you can apply for a place in our comfortable housing located on our Mile End Campus.
In our campus housing you will have a single room and private bathroom, and share a kitchen and living space with other programme attendees.
Attendees are not divided by country or course, giving you a chance meet people of all interests and from all around the world.
As well as the room amenities, you will enjoy unlimited free Wi-Fi in your accommodation and all across campus.
We understand some students may prefer single-gender housing; please email us at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk to discuss this further.
Our modern campus is a peaceful oasis in a busy city, set beside the Regent’s Canal, looking on to Mile End Park.
It has a friendly, relaxed atmosphere, with plenty of greenery and attractive outdoor spaces so it is easy to forget that you’re in the middle of a busy capital city.
The city centre is a short walk or bus trip away, as are East-End hotspots like St.
Paul's Cathedral, Tower Bridge, Spitalfields Market, Whitechapel and Brick Lane.
Jovanna, a former Queen Mary Summer School student, shares here experience
You can apply for housing as part of your summer school application and you will find a section within the application form to indicate if you want housing or not.
It is important that you indicate that you would like housing.
Please note that we are unable to guarantee housing for all students, and accommodation will be provided on a first-come first-serve basis.
On-campus housing costs and dates for 2026
Our campus accommodation offers a single room and private bathroom:
One session :     £1074
Dates: Sunday 28 June - Sunday 19 July 2026
One session :      £1074
Dates: Sunday 19 July to Sunday 9 August 2026
Two sessions :    £2147
Dates: Sunday 28 June - Sunday 9 August 2026
Each of our rooms are single occupancy, with a private bathroom.
Each bedroom comes with a bed, wardrobe, desk and chair.
Bedding and towels are provided.
Each flat contains 4-6 bedrooms  with access to a shared kitchen where you can make your breakfast or cook a meal, as well as living space.
There will be a deep-clean of the rooms and communal areas (kitchen and hallways) once a week.
Unlimited free Wi-Fi in your housing and on-campus.
Our self-contained campus is convenient and easy to navigate - for most classes you'll be just a short walk away from them.
Besides its friendly community of staff and students, our campus has a large range of services.
These include a café, restaurant, health and fitness centre, launderette, small supermarket, bookshop and bank.
As a Summer School student, you will have full access to all of these facilities.
The housing is in the same location as where most of the classes are taught, on our Mile End Campus.
You can check out the location and also download a map to explore the location here
As a university we are located in the heart of London’s East End – one of London's most vibrant and diverse neighbourhoods, with a rich and varied history that is still being made today.
Living on our campus will allow you to explore this unique part of London for yourself.
If you have any concerns about housing and accessibility, please get in touch with us before you apply as soon as possible afterwards so we can advise how your needs can be met summerschool@qmul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/housing/our-east-london:
As Londoners, we love East London (or the East End, as it’s often called) for the contrasts it offers.
It’s an energetic mix of the old and the new, from medieval history to hipster hangouts.
Offering peaceful walks along Regent’s Canal and leafy Victoria Park to the hubbub of Victorian East End pubs.
There are late-night music gigs to go to, alongside the coolest art exhibitions.
We love East London’s energy and its constant ability to surprise us.
There’s nowhere else in London like it!
For over a century, the East End has been the home of Britain’s modern art scene.
There are galleries everywhere, such as the Whitechapel Gallery, V&A’s Museum of Childhood and the Museum of London’s Docklands.
You’ll be living in the middle of one of Britain’s most fascinating heritage sites, walking the streets of Chaucer, Charles Dickens and Zadie Smith.
Nearby, there are two nationally respected theatres: the Hackney Empire and the Theatre Royal Stratford.
There’s also a fantastic independent cinema, Genesis, which has generous student discounts and a cocktail bar!
There’s a myth that British cuisine leaves a lot to be desired, but just one day in London would tell you that it is completely unsubstantiated!
With cultural communities from across the world coming together in one place, it’s inevitable the food scene is just as varied and exciting!
One of the greatest things about summer is being able to eat al fresco.
London is full to the brim of wonderful street food markets, and you’re bound to find one (or two!) things that take your fancy.
If you're a foodie, you'll love Brick Lane Market and Spitalfields Market, both just a stone’s throw away from campus.
British weather doesn’t have the best reputation, but we promise you’re very likely to see the sun shining in summer!
The best way to enjoy this weather is to get active outdoors: the 2012 Olympics took place in Stratford, which is one tube stop away from our campus, provides access to the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park sporting complex, as well as the Lea Valley VeloPark and Hockey and Tennis Centre.
If relaxing is more your thing, you can find a patch of grass in nearby Mile End Park or Victoria Park to enjoy a picnic with friends.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/housing/our-campus:
We are one of the only campus based Russel Group universities in London.
Mile End is our main campus and is most likely where your classes will take place as well as where our student accommodation village is located.
Read more about our other campuses .
Watch the below campus tour video to get a better idea of our campuses.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/fees-and-finance:
If you choose to study for 2 sessions you automatically receive a tuition fee discount
One Session £2750
Both Sessions £5200
If you are a Queen Mary student, Queen Mary alumni, University of London student from another University or a student from a Queen Mary partner institution you will get a 10% discount on your fee.
You can check here to see if your university is a Queen Mary summer school partner
If you are not from a partner university as long as you apply and pay before 31 March 2026 you are eligible for a 10% Early Bird discount.
Students from a partner university can only receive a 10% discount and are not eligible for both an early bird and a partner discount.
You can choose to live in our housing on our Mile End Campus , which is part of our student village or make your own living arrangements for the duration of the summer school.
France House offers a single room and private bathroom:
London can be an expensive city, but it also an incredibly student-friendly city.
Before you arrive on campus, we will provide you with information to help you budget for your stay and make the most of all the student perks the city has to offer in our countdown newsletters.
To read more about enjoying London on budget, click here .
There will be additional costs during the Summer School that you should account for, such as social programme events you might want to sign up to.
In 2026 we will offer a pay-as-you-go social programme which includes visits to sites and attractions around London as well as free activities to help you make friends during your time here.
We will release details of this and how you can sign up to it early in May 2026.
Credit Card Payments
Payment links to our e-shop are sent as part of your acceptance letter.
This will provide links to pay by credit card and will automatically link you to the correct amount, taking into account any discounts you are eligible for.
Payment via Bank Transfer
If you wish to pay by bank transfer, you must send us the remittance advice (proof payment/transfer) from your bank to summerschool@qmul.ac.uk .
Ask your bank to include the following on the remittance:
We need your remittance advice (proof of payment/transfer) to match your payment to your record.
Please also specify in your email to us if you are paying for tuition, accommodation, or both.
Please make the payment in pounds sterling (GBP) and make sure you pay any bank charges separately to ensure you only need to make one payment.
Account details for bank transfer
Account name
Queen Mary University of London
Sort code
20-57-30
Account number
20218782
Swift number
BARCGB22
IBAN number
GB37 BARC 2057 3020 2187 82
Bank address
Barclays Bank Plc, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/fees-and-finance/london-on-a-budget:
There is no need to be daunted by the prospect of living in London as a student - as a capital city, it is more expensive than other places in the UK, but with this comes a wider variety of ways to save money.
Before you arrive, you should take into account the amount of money you need for food, travel and making the most of your new hometown.
Being in a self-catered apartment means that you’ll be able to make use of the kitchen facilities and prepare your own food.
There are a number of large supermarkets within walking distance of Queen Mary to buy groceries.
Whilst they can also be convenient, be mindful that smaller ‘express’ stores often charge higher prices for exactly the same items.
If you don’t fancy cooking, you can usually grab a hot meal on campus at The Curve for a modest price.
The most cost-effective way of seeing the city is walking - you’ll be able to get anywhere you need to from our campus on foot!
If you want to head into the city via transport, the cheapest option is to get the bus.
For a flat-rate of £1.75 per journey, you can quickly travel across London and enjoy the top deck views.
Please note that Summer School students will not be able to benefit from the Student Oyster Card.
If you want to hit all the London tourist spots in one go, an expensive open-decked tourist bus tour might be tempting.
Instead, you should take the no.
11 bus and enjoy a real (and cheaper!) Londoner’s tour of the city’s most iconic landmarks.
The route takes you through Chelsea, past Buckingham Palace, Parliament Square, Westminster Abbey, the Royal Courts of Justice and St.
Paul’s Cathedral.
Click here to see a map of the route .
If you’re fascinated by London's eccentric and unique history, you can catch a glimpse of the Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace or the Ceremony of the Keys at the Tower of London.
A constant surprise to tourists is that most museums and galleries in the UK are completely free.
This means you can pursue the works of Van Gogh at the National Gallery, take in the sight of a giant dinosaur skeleton at the Natural History Museum, or analyse the Rosetta Stone at the British Museum – all free of charge!
If the classic tourist landmarks aren’t your thing, there’s still plenty to do for free in London.
You can…

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/fees-and-finance/university-partners:
We always welcome contact from new institutions who are interested in our Queen Mary Summer School.
If you would like to discuss this or how to become an official partner of the Queen Mary Summer School, please contact us at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk
Uganda Makerere University
Belgium
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Universit é C atholique de Louvain
Denmark
Roskilde Universitet University of Copenhagen
France
ESCP Europe Business School Université Catholique de Lille Universit é d'Avignon Universit é de la Reunion Aix-Marseille University Université Francois Rabelais (Tours) Universit é Pantheon-Assas (Paris II) Université Paris 1, Panthéon - Sorbonne Université Paris Sorbonne-Paris IV Université Sorbonne Nouvelle
The University of London Institute in Paris - LLM in Paris
Germany
Eberhard-Karls Universität Tuebingen Freie Universität Berlin Humbolt- Universität zu Berlin Johannes-Gutenberg Universität Mainz Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Muenchen Max Planck Institute Technische Universität Dresden Universität Bamberg Universität Heidelberg Universität Mannheim Universität Potsdam
Greece
Hellenic Management Centre
Italy
Università Bocconi Università Ca'Foscari di Venezia Università Commerciale Luigi Bocconi Università degli Studi di Milano University of Bologna University of Genoa
Malta
IMO International Maritime Law Institute
Netherlands
Universiteit Leiden Universiteit Utrecht
Norway
University of Bergen
Portugal
Universidade de Coimbra
Russia
Higher School of Economics (HSE)
Spain
Univeridad de Salamanca Universidad Carlos III de Madrid Universidad Complutense de Madrid
Universidad Europea de Valencia Universidad de Almeria Universidad de Málaga Universidad de Murcia Universidad de Oviedo Universidad Pablo de Olavide Universidad Politécnica de Madrid Universidad Pontificia Comillas Universidad Santiago De Compostela Universidade de Vigo Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona Universitat de València Universitat Jaume 1 Universitat Pompeu Fabra Barcelona
Sweden
KTH Stockholm Stockholm University School of Business Universitet Stockholm
Switzerland
University of Geneva
Universität Zürich
Türkiye
Koc University
United Kingdom
Chevening
Kaplan International College London Limited / Kaplan International College UK Limited
Argentina
National University of Tres de Febrero
Brazil
Federal University of Minas Gerais Federal University of Rio de Janeiro Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro Universidade de Sao Paulo
Chile
The National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research of Chile
Colombia
COLFUTURO Universidad de Antioquia Universidad de los Andes
Mexico
CONACYT FIDERH Fundación Mexicana Para la Educación, la Tecnología y la Ciencia Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education Universidad de Guadalajara
Kuwait
Kuwait Cultural Office - London
Saudi Arabia
King Abdulaziz University
Islamic Development Bank
Canada
Osgoode Hall Law School University of Ottawa University of Toronto
USA
Barnard College Baylor University Boston College Brandeis University Brown University Butler University Case Western Reserve University Colby College Columbia University Cornell University DePauw University Drexel University Duke University Elmhurst College Emory University Fairfield University Fordham University Fulbright Commission George Washington University Gonzaga University
Howard University Hunter College, CUNY IES Abroad International Studies Abroad Lehigh University Lewis & Clark College Marshall Scholarships Muhlenberg College Northeastern University Reed College
Rice University Rollins College Saint Mary's College of California
Santa Clara University Skidmore College Stevens Institute of Technology SUNY College at Brockport
Tufts University University of California University of Denver University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign University of Louisiana University of Maryland, College Park University of Mary Washington University of Miami University of Michigan University of Pennsylvania University of Redlands University of Richmond University of San Diego University of South California University of Texas at Austin University of the Pacific Wake Forest University
Whittier College
Villanova University
Australia
Monash University
The University of Melbourne University of Queensland The University of Sydney University of Western Australia
New Zealand
University of Auckland
China
Beihang University Beijing Foreign Studies University Beijing Jiaotong University Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications Central South University China Scholarship Council
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
Chinese University of Hong Kong -Shenzhen East China University of Political Science and Law East China University of Science and Technology Hunan University Huawei Technologies Jiangnan University Minzu University of China Nanchang University Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications Northwestern Polytechnical University Peking University Law School Renmin School of International Education Renmin University of China
Shandong University
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics Sichuan University
Southwest Petroleum University
Tongji University (and CIDI) University of Electronic Science and Technology of China Xiamen University Zhejiang University Zhengzhou University
Hong Kong
Hong Kong University
Hong Kong Baptist University
Chinese University of Hong Kong
India
Amity University BSE Institute Manipal University National Law School of India University O.P.
Jindal Global University Saveetha Institute of Medical And Technical Sciences Vellore Institute of Technology
Indonesia
Institute Teknologi Bandung Universitas Gadjah Mada Universitas Indonesia Universitas Padjadjaran
Japan
Toho University Tsurumi University Waseda University
Malaysia
International Medical University Universiti of Malaya University of Science, Malaysia Universiti Teknologi MARA
Pakistan
Higher Education Commission
Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi National University of Medical Sciences
Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology
Philippines
Ateneo de Manila University
Singapore
Nanyang Technological University National University of Singapore Singapore Management University
South Korea
Seoul National University
Taiwan
National Central University National Taiwan University
Thailand
Chulalongkorn University
Republic of Uzbekistan
Tashkent State University of Law

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/teaching-and-assessment:
Our teaching is research informed and your classes will challenge your thinking.
We pride ourselves on offering you excellent teaching, and doing our utmost to ensure you have an intellectually rich and personally rewarding stay with us.
Each Summer School module will consist of 48 contact hours over the three weeks, along with 150 hours of independent study.
Teaching will take place between 10 AM and 3 PM, Monday to Thursday, with Friday remaining free for personal study and sight-seeing.
The methods of teaching will vary course-by-course, so it is recommended that you read the profile of your chosen course for further detail and you can access a full syllabi from the overview section of the module in the What can I study section .
There may also be field trips factored into your course timetable, to contextualise your studies and give you ‘real-life’ insights into the wider aspects of your subject.
You’ll be taken to see places and meet experts that other people won't always get to meet.
Each course on the Queen Mary Summer School features an assessment component – this may be an essay, presentation, in-class test or combination of them all.
The assessment element is not compulsory, but if you wish to claim credit for your study then you will need to complete the assessment.
Your academic transcript will show you a percentage mark for each of the Summer School courses you have completed.
You will receive your transcript through our secure digital platform Gradintelligence and you will be invited to sign up for this portal during the enrolment process.
The Queen Mary Summer School courses are worth 15 Queen Mary credits.
Usually, the 15 credits we award for each three-week Summer School session translate to 4 credits in the US system and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
You must work with your home adviser/international office to confirm any credit transfer arrangements and we would suggest you complete this process prior to arriving at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/social-programme:
We hope you'll take advantage of the full London experience against the vibrant multicultural backdrop of the East End - from traditional British cuisine to exclusive art tours, there’s plenty to do!
Alongside your own adventures, taking part in our social programme  gives you the opportunity to build friendships with your fellow Summer School students and experience the city from a local perspective.
The social programme is a mix of free and paid for events.
The paid for programme will be available to buy on a first-come-first-served basis via our Eventbrite page.
We want you to feel at home here the moment you arrive, so there’ll be a complimentary event taking place as part of our Welcome Programme in Week 1, as well as a complimentary farewell event so you can celebrate together with all the friends you have made on the programme.
We’ll give you practical advice about living and studying in London, and provide an optional paid for programme that will allow you get to see some of London's most famous sites and explore the wider country.
The social programme schedule will be finalised later in 2025.
However, we will put below some previous activities to give you an idea of what might be available in summer 2025.
Thames River Cruise
Wicked Theatre Evening
Walking Tour East London
Brick Lane Curry Night
Pub trip to watch the Euros
Walking Tour - East End and Docklands History
London Eye Experience
Games Evening at Roof East
Buckingham Palace State Rooms Tour
Genesis Cinema Trip

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/social-programme/summer-in-london:
London is a city of unlimited opportunity.
It’s impossible, even as Londoners, to take advantage of everything that the city has to offer.
Whether you choose to spend all of your time in the city itself, or are keen to venture into the rest of the UK or even Europe, our list below will give you inspiration for making the most of your free time.
London has great connections to the rest of the country, as well as the European mainland, meaning you can choose to take your London adventure even further afield.
Check out some of our suggestions.
As soon as the weather heats up, British people flock in their hoards to the nearest seaside town to spend the day lounging in a deck chair and eating fish and chips.
You can take a train from London directly to Brighton, where you can dip your toes in the sea and explore the eclectic vintage shops, or to Southend-on-Sea, where you can walk on the world’s longest pier.
London’s well-connected rail and bus network means that you can travel to almost any part of the country easily and quickly.
A popular destination for tourists travelling from London is the historic city of Bath about  an 1 hour 30 minutes by train.
Our social programme will also offer you the chance to explore outside London, visiting World Heritage sites such as Stonehenge.
If you’re feeling like travelling further afield you could also get a train or an overnight coach to Edinburgh in Scotland.
Travelling to the continent is an easy option from London.
Its still possible to snag a cheap fair if you plan in advance and you can travel from one of London’s airports to any city of your choice – whether that’s Dublin, Paris, Rome or Berlin - with typically less than 2 hours flying time.
For a more eco-friendly option, you can take the Eurostar from King’s Cross St.
Pancras International.
Please note, if you are a non-EU national wishing to travel to Europe during your stay, please consult our Advice and Counselling service to find out if you need to apply for a Schengen visa before travelling.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/faqs:
If you have any questions about studying at the Queen Mary Summer School, check out our information below.
Still can't find an answer to your question?
Please feel free to get in touch with a member of the team at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk .
What kind of people apply to a Summer School?
Students from all backgrounds are welcome to apply to the Queen Mary Summer School and you must be 18 years of age or older at the time of attendance.
In previous years, our Summer School students have ranged in age from 18 to 68 and joined us from 45 different countries.
They were high school graduates, current undergraduate students, postgraduate students, professionals looking for an opportunity to develop and people just interested in exploring a topic for their own personal interest
No - it is free to apply to our summer school!
Can I apply if I am under 18?
Unfortunately, we can only accept students who will be 18 at the time of attending the summer school.
What academic level are the Summer School courses?
Our courses range from the equivalent of a first or second year undergraduate degree to postgraduate study.
However, most courses will be appropriate for all applicants with previous experience.
If I have a disability, how will I let you know?
If you have a disability, you will be able to let us know when you fill out our online application form.
At Queen Mary, we are committed to ensuring that all reasonable adjustments are made for all students to make the most of their studies.
Once you have accepted your offer, we will pass your contact information on to the Disability and Dyslexia Service who will then liaise with you about how they can help you while you are a student at Queen Mary.
If you have any concerns regarding accessibility or your specific needs, we encourage you to contact us in advance.
What are the entry requirements?
We welcome international qualifications and we consider each application on its individual merit.
You can check out our entry requirements here .
If you would like to discuss your qualifications with a member of the team before you submit an application, please feel free to get in touch through our email, summerschool@qmul.ac.uk
Do I need to sit a language exam if English is not my first language, but I am fluent?
No, you will not necessarily need to sit a language exam.
We accept a range of alternative documentation.
Please check the English language requirements of the course you wish to apply for, and if you have any questions regarding your suitability, please get in touch.
What kind of documents do you require?
As part of your online application form, we require the following:
Can I take more than one course per session?
You may only take one course per session.
However, students are welcome to join us for Session 1 and Session 2.
When will I know if I have been accepted?
Once we have received your application form along with your documents, you will be notified via email of the outcome.
We aim to make a decision within 10 working days of the application date.
When will I have to pay my fee?
While you may pay at any time until the application deadline, you are not guaranteed a place on the programme until you have paid.
If a course is over-subscribed priority will be given to students that have paid, on a first-come, first-served basis.
Applications that have not yet been paid for will be protected from displacement by paid students until ten days after our offer of admissions is made to you .
If your home institution is being invoiced for your fees, or if you are joining us as part of an exchange we will bill your home institution directly and your acceptance letter will confirm this.
How do I pay my tuition and/or housing fees?
You can pay by credit or debit card and instructions on how to do this will be sent to you in your offer letter.
There is also the option to pay your fees via bank transfer.
Instructions on how to do this are on our Fees and Finance page.
We do not accept payment of fees in cash and all payments must be made in pounds sterling, inclusive of VAT and other taxes where applicable.
For more detailed information please see the terms and conditions:
Will the university provide housing?
You can apply for our on campus housing via our application form.
Students are also welcome to make their own arrangements for housing.
For details of costs and dates visit our webpage.
Housing is offered on a first-come-first-served basis.
Am I able to change the course I applied for once I have been made an offer?
Yes - if you decide you would like to study a different course, we will do everything we can to accommodate you provided you request the course change by the application deadline.
However, please note that we are unable to guarantee you a place on an alternative course.
What happens if my course is cancelled?
We are committed to delivering your course as closely as it was described on our website when you applied.
However, in some exceptional circumstances, such as the unexpected departure of a key member of staff or lack of demand from applicants, we may have to suspend or withdraw a course.
In this instance, we would notify you at the earliest possible opportunity and make every effort to offer a suitable alternative or a refund.
Will I need a visa to come to the Summer School?
You need to check your visa status to find out if you need a visitor visa to study on the Summer School, to do so please see our visa page
The Summer School team is unable to give visa advice.
If you require any assistance, please get in touch with the Queen Mary Advice and Counselling Service.
What will be provided in my housing?
Each of our rooms are single rooms with private bathrooms and a shared kitchen.
Each room comes with a bed, wardrobe, desk, chair and bathroom.
Bedding and towels are also provided.
Please note that there will be no cooking equipment (e.g., pots and plates) provided in your shared kitchen.
There will also be a deep-clean of the communal areas (kitchen and hallways) once a week.
You will be provided with free Wi-Fi.
Who will I be sharing housing with?
You will be placed in a flat with fellow Summer School students, who may not necessarily be studying the same course as you.
This will be a great opportunity for you to meet even more people and gain insights from students studying a variety of subjects.
Will the Summer School include cooked meals?
You can use the kitchens to cook your own food, or you can eat on campus at The Curve, with other eating places and a selection of supermarkets right on our doorstep.
We will include further information on where to eat around campus in your welcome pack.
How do I book housing?
You can select the option to book housing as part of the application form.
Which facilities will be available to me on campus?
During the summer period, the following campus facilities will be available to students:
Will I be allocated a single point of contact for support?
For the duration of your stay, you will be able to contact your course leader for academic support.
If you need any additional support, the Summer School Team will be on hand between 9am and 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Will I need to purchase any text books or study materials?
No - prior to starting your course you will gain access to our virtual learning environment (QMPlus) which will contain all of your course materials.
You will also have full access to the Queen Mary library.
When will I have access to my timetable and course syllabus?
Course syllabi are currently available within the overview section of the module section of the site, just click on the module you are interested in.
Students will also be able to view their timetable and course syllabus on QMPlus and you will obtain access to this once you have completed enrolment.
How will I be assessed?
Each of our courses is assessed differently, and may include written assignments, in-class tests, presentations or practical assessments.
For course-specific information, please read the 'Assessment' information on the relevant module page.
How will the course be structured?
Each course comprises 48 contact hours with a further recommended 150 hours of personal study.
Classes will run on Monday to Thursday, between 10am and 3pm.
Some of our courses have academically led field trips included in the structure of them.
Where will the classes be based?
All classes will be held at our Mile End or Charterhouse campus.
Is there an additional cost for events in the social programme?
We offer a free welcome and farewell event to all students so you can meet new people and also celebrate the end of your programme.
In addition to this, there is a pay-as-you-go social programme that you will be able to sign up for on Eventbrite.
Further information and event links will be shared with students prior to and upon arrival onto campus.
How will I get from the airport to campus?
You will need to arrange your own transfer from the airport to your housing.
All of London's airports are easily accessible by train, tube or taxi.
Here are some suggestions, but there are plenty of options for all budgets for each airport.
We will send out further information about getting around London in our predeparture information.
When will I receive my transcript?
You will be able to access your transcript through our digital transcript service and you will receive instructions on how to set up an account as part of the enrolment process.
Transcripts will be released after summer school, in September 2025.
Will I receive credit towards my undergraduate course at my home university?
Each of our Summer School courses is worth 15 credits which translates as 3-4 credits in the US system and 7.5 ECTS in the European system.
It is down to the discretion of your home institution whether they will allow the credits you earn at our Summer School to count towards your degree, and it is your responsibility to check with them before you apply for the Summer School.
Please note that institutions within the UK rarely allow the transfer of credit between universities.
For more information, please check with your home institution.
Will the course credits count towards my undergraduate degree at Queen Mary?
If you are a current student at Queen Mary you will not be able to use the credits earned at the Summer School towards your degree.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/ask-us-a-question:
Ask us a question

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/testimonials:
We've asked our Queen Mary Summer School students what they thought of their experience with us and how this affected their professional and personal life.
Here are some of their answers!
What have you been up to since your Queen Mary Summer?
We’re very interested in what you’ve been doing since your time with us in London and we would love to share your experience with prospective students and other alumni!
Don't be a stranger and let us know where you are now.
Send us an email at summerschool@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/summer-school/online-information-sessions:
We regularly host online information sessions to give students the opportunity to learn more about our summer school and give you a chance to ask any questions to our friendly summer school team.
Our sessions are hosted on Microsoft Teams and you will need to sign up via the links provided below.
All information sessions take place GMT + 00:00 (UK time).
Click the links below to sign up to an information session
We are not currently hosting any information sessions.
Please check back in due course.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/what:
Degree Apprenticeships were launched by the UK Government to bring together the very best of higher and vocational education in order to address the skills and productivity challenges that have plagued the UK economy for the last 20-30 years.
Degree Apprentices split their time between university study and the workplace and are employed throughout – gaining a full bachelor’s or master’s degree while earning a wage and getting real on-the-job experience in their chosen profession.
Degree Apprentices do not pay tuition fees as these are covered by their sponsoring employer.
In return, employers are able to upskill and employ new staff to address skills gaps within their organisation and utilise funds from their Apprenticeship Levy account.
Queen Mary University of London was the first Russell Group University to launch apprenticeships back in 2015.Since then, we have grown our apprenticeship offering alongside our portfolio of excellent employers.
For employers with an annual PAYE bill of £3m or more, Degree Apprentices can be funded through their monthly Apprenticeship Levy payment.
For smaller employers who do not attract the Apprenticeship Levy, the cost of course fees is shared between government (95%) and employers (5%).
Further information on the mechanics of the Apprenticeship Levy can be found on our Apprenticeship Levy Explained page.
Degree Apprentices must be employed for a minimum of 30 hours a week and spend a minimum of 20% of their time in off-the-job training.
This 20% component can be satisfied through a variety of delivery models such as day or block release (i.e.
attending lectures, seminars and lab sessions on campus) or through distance learning on a virtual learning environment.
Find out more about the apprenticeship levy, and how it impacts the degree apprenticeships we provide.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/what/apprenticeship-levy-explained:
Information around the apprenticeship levy, and how it impacts the degree apprenticeships we provide.
On 6th April 2017, the UK Government introduced the Apprenticeship Levy, a 0.5% tax on all organisations with a PAYE bill over £3m per annum.
Organisations affected by the tax make monthly payments into a digital account where their money sits as credits.
These credits expire after 24 months but are earmarked to pay for training courses for new and existing members of staff.
Eligible training courses are labelled “Apprenticeship Standards.” These documents outline occupational specific knowledge, skills and behaviours akin to a job description.
Over 850 Apprenticeship Standards have been published ranging from level 2 (GCSE equivalent) right the way up to Level 7 (Masters).
As a Russell Group Higher Education Provider, Queen Mary University of London we deliver Degree Apprenticeships at Levels 6 & 7 (Undergraduate and Postgraduate Level).
Over 200 Degree Apprenticeships have been approved and bring delivered.
With new standards constantly in development.
Employers can find out more about Trailblazer Groups, Standards in delivery on The Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education page along with a list of all approved apprenticeship standards .
From May 2018, employers who pay the apprenticeship levy can choose to transfer up to 25% of their levy funds each year to other businesses.
These funds will be used to pay for the training and assessment cost of the apprenticeships agreed with the receiving employer and will be paid monthly for the duration of the apprenticeship.
Only levy-paying employers can make a transfer.
Any employer can receive and use transferred funds, but they have to be registered on the apprenticeship service.
Find out more about transferring apprenticeship service funds .
If you are a Levy paying organisation interested in supporting SME's employ apprentices please contact us: degreeapprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk .
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-apprenticeship-levy

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/benefits-of-degree-apprenticeships:
Find out more about the benefits of taking part in a degree apprenticeship, and hear from those who have previously taken part.
Goldman Sachs, Digital and Technology Solutions Degree Apprentices.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/programmes:
Learn more about out BSc Applied Finance Degree Apprenticeships programme.
Learn more about our BSc Digital and Technology Solutions (Software Engineer) Degree Apprenticeship programme.
Earn while you train to become a business analyst, and graduate with both a BSc and three years of work experience.
Learn more about our Economist Masters Apprenticeship.
Learn more about our Clinical Education PGCert Degree Apprenticeship programme.
If you are an employer interested in partnering with Queen Mary University of London please contact degreeapprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk .
We are actively scoping delivery of further programmes both at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
To this end, employers are encouraged to make contact if they have an interest in a particular standard that has already been approved, or is in the process of being approved by the Institute for Apprenticeships.
We are also currently engaged in a number of Trailblazer groups and have assisted such groups right through from the Expression of Interest through to consultation and approval by The Institution for Apprenticeship and Technical Education (IfATE) .
We work closely with the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA), IfATE and The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education ( QAA) so are able to navigate the increasingly complex apprenticeship space to help industry achieve its workforce needs.
If you are interested in discussing opportunities for the development of a new or existing Degree Apprenticeship programmes, please make contact with us at degreeapprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk .
Further support can be found on our Employer section: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/employers/

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/employers:
Degree Apprenticeships are the fastest-growing route to attracting top talent into business and attract high calibre candidates who gain all the benefits of on-the-job learning and a funded Honours degree.
This can be on a day-to-day basis or in blocks of time, depending on the programme and requirements of the employer.
Employers are expected to pay an appropriate training salary over the duration of their degree apprentices’ study, with starting salaries currently ranging from £14,000 to £22,500.
The typical duration for an undergraduate Degree Apprenticeship is between 3-5 years and between 1-2 years for a typical postgraduate programme.
Apprenticeships are an asset to organisations when they add value beyond the mere bottom line.
By positively affecting cultural change, a successful apprenticeship can improve both productivity and competitiveness whilst at the same time improving staff morale and retention, the ability to attract good staff and the reputation of that organisation in its respective sector.
Best practice in apprenticeships can be summarised as the following:
Further information on the mechanics of the Apprenticeship Levy can be found on our Apprenticeship Levy Explained page .
We are also working with many organisations on partnerships for 2024.
If you would like to partner with us on an existing programme, or if you would like to work with us on developing a new programme for your organisation, please contact us at: degreeapprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/london-city-institute-of-technology:
The new facility aims to develop new degree apprenticeship pathways into high quality employment in STEM-focussed careers.
In September 2022, the London City Institute of Technology (LCIoT) opened its doors, welcoming its first cohort of degree apprenticeship students.
Funded by the Department for Education and Greater London Authority, the LCIoT is our newly renovated education and training facility at London City Island, in partnership with Newham College London.
The LCIoT will focus on providing education and training in the areas of:
Our key employer partners for our first intake of students include PwC, Goldman Sachs and KPMG.
Currently Queen Mary has two programmes being taught at LCIoT, with further programmes expected to launch in September 2023.
BSc Digital and Technology Solutions (Business Analyst) Degree Apprenticeship programme.
Visit the London City Institute of Technology website for a full list of the programmes offered.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/contact-us:
Find out the different ways you can get in touch with us.
For any questions about degree apprenticeships, support with applying for an apprenticeship, partnering with us on an existing programme, or if you would like to work with us on developing a new programme for your organisation, please contact us at: degreeapprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk
Queen Mary understands that teachers and career advisors play a vital role in helping pupils understand their higher education options.
If you would like to arrange a talk for your students please visit: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/outreach/teachers/

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/smart-assessor:
Smart Assessor is used by all stakeholders to manage the apprentices journey.
These include: apprentices, employers, assessors, independent quality assurers and managers.
Additionally, it is used to ensure the journey is compliant with the regulatory bodies such as Ofsted and ESFA.
How to Get Help?
How do I login to Smart Assessor?
Guides are available to help navigate Smart Assessor for all stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/smart-assessor/employers:
Our apprenticeships develop the industry skills and knowledge that employers require for the future.
Eileen O'Gara
Employers Guides for Smart Assessor.
Employer Guides

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships/smart-assessor/applicants-and-apprentices:
The growth in the number of degree apprenticeships we offer demonstrates our commitment to helping students progress through employment-based education opportunities.
Dr Philippa Lloyd
Applicant Apprentices Guides for Smart Assessor.
Applicant Guides
Apprentice
Already a QMUL Apprentice?
Find all relevant guides here: Apprentice Guides .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing:
Whether you've already got your results or are still waiting, our Guide to Clearing will tell you everything you need to know, from what is UCAS Clearing to how you can apply.
If you're a parent/carer  and want to know how you can best support your child/ward with Clearing, we've got a guide just for you
Got more questions on the Clearing process at Queen Mary?
We've probably answered them in our FAQs .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing/what-is-clearing:
As soon as you have your results you can apply to Clearing via our online application form via our Clearing coursefinder or call our Clearing hotline.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing/preparing-for-clearing:
If you think that you might go into Clearing, you can start preparing even before you get your results.
You have already done a lot of research when you made your initial applications, but your Clearing applications don’t have to stick to those same subjects.
You are going to be studying this subject for several years, so think about what really excites you.
This might be something you studied in college, or it could be something completely new.
Check our clearing course listing when available, or if you are researching early use our undergraduate course finder to explore what you might be interested in.
Make sure to look at the details, such as the modules on the course, so you get a really good idea of what you will be studying and if it’s right for you.
Take lots of notes, especially if you’re looking at similar courses at different universities.
This will help you stay organised on Results Day.
When you’re trying to decide on a course, think about your future plans and ask yourself the following questions -
You could search for job listings and see what kind of qualifications they require.
This research can guide you when thinking about the course you want to study.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing/how-to-apply-online:
Once you have your results, you can apply to Clearing via our quick and easy online application form.
If you have your results, you can apply to Clearing online via our Clearing Coursefinder.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing/how-to-apply-by-phone:
You can apply via Clearing by calling our dedicated Clearing hotline.
We understand this can be a stressful time – take your time, and know we’re here to help.
Try to call from a quiet place where you can relax and won’t feel rushed.
Here's what'll happen when you get through to us:
When you call us, have all the information ready to hand.
You’ll need the following:
If you want someone to call on your behalf, such as your parent or guardian, we will need your authorisation to speak to them.
If they aren’t already listed as your nominated contact on UCAS, you’ll need to be on hand to give us permission before we can speak to them.
Before you call, think about any questions you might like to ask and write them down so that you don’t forget.
We would also recommend that you have something to write on during the call, as you may want to take notes.
If you have your results, you can apply to Clearing by calling our Clearing hotline.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/guide-to-clearing/for-parents-and-carers:
Clearing is part of the UCAS application process, giving students the chance the find and secure a place on a wide variety of available university courses.
Most importantly of all, remind them that they shouldn’t rush this decision.
Clearing is now open!
Your child/ward can apply online or call our Clearing hotline.
Remember, your child/ward can only apply via Clearing once they have received their results.
If your child/ward has their results, they can apply to Clearing online or via calling our Clearing hotline.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/international-students:
Want to know more about life at Queen Mary University of London?
Our current students are available to answer any questions you may have about their personal experience at our university.
Check out their profiles and start a conversation!
Chat to our students online .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/frequently-asked-questions-:
We hope you can find the answer to your question, however, if you have any further questions or need some advice, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
Clearing is an opportunity for those who have missed the conditions of their offers or have changed their minds about the university or course they want to study.
The main reasons you may be eligible to use UCAS Clearing:
Find out more about Clearing on the UCAS website: What is Clearing?
Early Clearing opens on Saturday 5 July 2025 .
Main Clearing will open on Thursday 14 August 2025 .
Once you have your results, you can apply via our quick and easy online application form or dedicated telephone hotline which will be available closer to the time, so please keep an eye on our website for further details.
Clearing is open to UK, EU and International applicants.
You’ll be able to use Clearing if one of the following situations applied to you:
We can consider expressions of interest and make an offer of study if you do not currently have a UCAS application.
However, you’ll need to complete and submit a UCAS application in order to accept the offer.
If you haven’t yet applied, apply online now via UCAS Hub .
You’ll need a reference as well as a personal statement to successfully complete your application.
A-Level results should be available on your UCAS Hub from 8am on 14 August.
You will be able to see whether your Firm or Insurance choices has confirmed your place or not.
Congratulations!
Time to celebrate.
There’s no need to call the university to check this and you'll receive an email with everything you need shortly.
You should contact us even if you haven't quite met the conditions of your offer, we may still confirm your place.
If you think you may have the grades to study at Queen Mary, you can check our Clearing vacancies and grade checker to confirm you meet our entry requirements.
Don’t panic.
You’ll be able to apply for a place with us through Clearing.
Step two - Use our Clearing grade checker
Our Clearing coursefinder lists all the courses that are available in Clearing.
This will give you information about the course as well as the grades you will need.
Think about the courses you might be interested in studying.
This doesn’t have to be the same subject you originally applied to, so do some research about what is a good fit.
Make a shortlist so that if any of them fill up quickly, you have others that you can enquire about.
Yes, international students can join Queen Mary through Clearing.
You can enter the Clearing process if you:
To apply through Clearing you will need to register with UCAS , if you haven’t already.
From July, you can visit our online course finder for a list of Clearing programmes that have places.
This website will be updated throughout the Clearing period.
The UCAS grades on entry tool shows different grades for accepted students than the clearing requirements?
Please note that the UCAS historical entry grade data only shows the average grade profile of the students who were accepted in previous years and cannot be used to determine eligibility onto a programme through Clearing.
To view our Clearing entry requirements for September 2024, please refer to our website where these are listed for all programmes with vacancies.
Once you have found a course that you wish to study, please contact us and we will go through the Clearing process to assess whether you are eligible.
You’ll need to have received all your qualification results before contacting us.
A step by step guide to the Clearing process and what to expect can be found in Our Guide to Clearing .
If the course you want to join has vacancies and you meet the minimum academic entry requirements that we’re looking for, contact us to discuss making an application.
If you are holding an unconditional firm offer, you can self-release using the ‘decline your place’ button in UCAS Hub, however we advise speaking to your university/college and an adviser at your school/college before using this button.
Before you ask to be released, you should call our Clearing hotline so we can confirm whether or not we are able to offer you a place on your chosen course of study.
If this is the case, you’ll be given a verbal offer of study and sent a subsequent email communication directing you to refer yourself to Queen Mary and your chosen course on UCAS Hub .
This email communication will also contain a deadline by which to refer yourself us.
Make sure you have a verbal offer from us before you get released from your current University as you may find yourself in Clearing without a University place anywhere.
Please ensure you meet the deadline to refer yourself in UCAS Hub .
This will be communicated at the point of offer.
Queen Mary University of London is not obliged to accept any applicant who refers themselves to us without having made prior contact, or any applicant who refers themselves to us after the referral deadline.
Absolutely!
If the course you want to join has vacancies and you meet the minimum academic entry requirements that we’re looking for, you’ll need to either apply via our quick and easy online application form or contact our Clearing Hotline to confirm that we can offer you a place.
After receiving a verbal offer of study at Queen Mary, we’ll also send an email confirming your offer in writing with instructions to refer yourself to Queen Mary University of London through UCAS Hub .
This email will contain a deadline by which you must refer yourself to us on UCAS.
Queen Mary are not obliged to accept any applicant who refers themselves after the communicated deadline.
Only once you’ve referred yourself to Queen Mary, and we’ve verified the information provided at the point of verbal offer, will we confirm your place and make an unconditional offer of study.
This will then update on UCAS Hub , at which point your place on your chosen course of study at Queen Mary is secure.
You’ll need to choose Queen Mary as the institution – our Institutional code is Q50, and the email will contain the course code.
Once you’ve done this, you’ll need to allow sufficient time for our Admissions team to verify the information provided at the initial point of offer and process an unconditional offer of study.
This will usually take 1 - 2 working days, and will update on UCAS Hub once complete.
If you have previously called the Clearing hotline, we will have taken down the details provided by you.
Please check that the email sent has not been received in your spam/junk mailboxes and ensure that the email address you provided to us on the phone/live chat was the same as is on your UCAS form.
If you are unable to refer yourself by the deadline specified in your email, please contact us via email and the decision on whether to extend your deadline will be at the discretion of the academic school and subject to whether there are still places left on the programme you have received a verbal offer for.
Unfortunately we cannot guarantee that we will be able to extend your deadline, and cannot intervene at other institutions where you are waiting for a decision on your offer or Clearing place.
After your place has been confirmed you will receive a CAS request email with details for your online student account, known as your MySIS portal .
Once you are logged on to your MySIS portal you will be able to submit all the relevant information needed to request a CAS .
If we have received all the relevant information, the details provided have been verified as correct by you and you are eligible to study in the UK, you will receive your CAS via email.
If additional information is required this process will take longer.
We will aim to send your CAS within 2 -3 working days but it may take longer if additional information is required.
Please ensure you check your email account on a regular basis, including junk or spam folders.
For more information on student visas please take a look at our guide to making a successful student visa application .
If you object to this, you will need to end the call when you are told that calls may be recorded or you can contact us after the call to exercise this right.
Our Data Protection Privacy Notice can be found on our Clearing homepage .
After receiving a verbal offer of study, we’ll also send an email confirming your offer in writing with instructions on how to refer yourself to Queen Mary University and your chosen course of study on UCAS Hub .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-success-stories:
We spoke to Queen Mary students past and present who shared their advice and explain ed how  Clearing can be a positive experience with a brilliant outcome.
Shane decided to apply to Queen Mary University of London through Clearing to pursue a career change.
Now, he’s studying Chemistry, learning from our leading academics and pioneers in Green Chemistry.
Paneez applied to Queen Mary University of London through Clearing after realising her passion for English and literature.
“My expectations of Clearing was that it was going to be very stressful.
When I called Queen Mary, it was actually a very peaceful process.
My advice to those students who are going through Clearing this year is do not panic.”
Lisa prepared for Clearing in advance and was able to secure her place in Finance at Queen Mary University of London.
"I chose to apply to Queen Mary because it was in London, it was a pure Finance degree and it had very good partner universities to go for a year abroad program."
Bijoy joined Queen Mary University of London through Clearing and went on to win the Principal’s Prize for Biomedical Engineering in his second year.
After having his work included in a published research paper, Bijoy is now studying a PhD in Materials Science at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/privacy:
This central privacy notice explains how Queen Mary University of London (QMUL, ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’) collects and uses your personal data , about your rights and gives contact details of our Data Protection Officer (DPO).
It should be read in conjunction with other privacy notices usually presented at the point of collection, which will provide more specific information such as the legal bases for processing your personal data.
Those notices will link here to provide the following additional information.
QMUL is a data controller in terms of Article 4 of the U.K.
General Data Protection Regulation (UK-GDPR), registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (Reg: Z5507327 ).
This means we are responsible for deciding how we can use your personal data.
QMUL processes information about applicants, students, alumni, staff, research subjects, donors, contractors, visitors, enquirers and others for various teaching, research, employment and administrative purposes, including the health, safety and welfare of individuals.
Your privacy is important to us.
All personal data will be treated strictly in accordance with our  and data protection legislation.
Depending on your relationship with QMUL, we require or will request certain information about you (personal data), which you may give us or we may collect directly or indirectly.
This information, the purposes for which QMUL may process it and the legal bases relied on will be explained in this privacy notice and those available at the point of collection and otherwise accessible to you.
We will also inform you of any sharing of your data and how long it may be retained.
QMUL will respect privacy and appropriate security measures will be taken to prevent unauthorised access, disclosure or loss.
We do all we can to ensure that data remain accurate and up-to-date.
It is important that you inform us of any changes and, for example, keep your information updated on MySIS or MyHR.
If you provide us with someone else’s personal data you will need to direct them to the appropriate privacy notice and make sure they agree to us using this for the purposes set out.
Your personal data will be retained for as long as necessary for the purposes for which it has been collected.
This will vary depending on your relationship with QMUL.
Please refer to our Records Retention Policy and Schedule found at https://www.qmul.ac.uk/governance-and-legal-services/governance/information-governance/records-management/
We do not sell your personal data to anyone.
We do not share your personal data with any third parties unless they are providing services to us under contract or disclosure is permitted by, or required by, law.
We use a large number of data processors, including in particular, Microsoft.
Please refer to our other privacy notices for more information.
Where personal data are processed in a third country/ies outside the U.K./EEA and where there is not deemed to be adequate protection, this shall be safeguarded by methods approved by UK (or EU) regulators, such as Standard Contractual Clauses or International Data Transfer Agreement between QMUL and the other party.
Copies are available from the DPO.
Apart from our Data Protection Policy, we have a range of Information Security policies in place to protect the data we hold, including your personal data.
You can read more about these policies and technical standards at https://www.qmul.ac.uk/its/about/governance--committees/governance/policies/ .
On a day-to-day basis, staff access to personal data is restricted on a ‘need to know’ basis wherever possible.
Our policies and procedures make clear that all staff have a responsibility to ensure that they handle personal data appropriately and that suitable organisational security measures are in place.
You have the following rights in relation to your personal data, though note that these are not necessarily absolute and do not apply in all circumstances:
If you have given your consent for the processing of your personal data and you wish to withdraw it, please contact our DPO using the contact details set out below or the department responsible.
Please note that where our processing of your personal data relies on your consent and where you then withdraw this, we may not be able to provide all or some aspects of our services to you and/or it may affect the provision of those services.
Note also that withdrawing your consent will not affect the lawfulness of any processing we conducted prior to your withdrawal, nor will it affect processing of your personal data relying on lawful processing grounds other than consent.
You have the right to a copy of data held by QMUL about you.
This is called a subject access request.
Please contact the DPO for more information.
For instance, you can ask us to rectify inaccurate or incomplete data or perhaps add a supplementary statement to your record.
You have a limited right to request that QMUL deletes data it holds about you; this is generally only applicable where you have initially given us your consent to process your personal data and there will often be a requirement for us to continue to hold some data.
In certain circumstances, you have the right to request that QMUL restricts its use of your personal data, where we still store some but no longer process it further, and to object to QMUL’s processing of your personal data based only on grounds relating to your particular situation.
In some cases, you have a right to data portability where you can request that QMUL provides you with a copy of your personal data to allow your own use, for example to transfer to another provider.
In certain circumstances, you can object to processing, including the sending and receipt of direct marketing.
If you've already agreed to us using your personal data for direct marketing purposes, you can change your mind by contacting us directly, altering your preferences or by selecting the 'unsubscribe' link at the bottom of any marketing emails we send you.
If you wish to complain about any aspect of QMUL’s handling of your data, you have the right to raise a concern with the Information Commissioner’s Office.
Please see ico.org.uk for details.
You also have a right to complain through the courts.
QMUL will not ordinarily charge you in respect of any requests we receive to exercise any of your rights detailed above.
However, if you make excessive, repetitive or manifestly unfounded requests, we may charge you an administration fee in order to process such requests or refuse to act on such requests.
Where we are required to provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing this will be free of charge; however, any further copies requested may be subject to reasonable fees based on administrative costs.
We reserve the right to make changes to this notice in the future.
Any changes will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by email.
We therefore encourage you to review this page from time to time to stay informed of how we are processing your personal data.
Data Protection Officer: if you need further information on the above or wish to exercise a right, please contact data-protection@qmul.ac.uk or write to Data Protection Officer, Queens’ Building, Mile End Road, London, E1 4NS, and/or read the data protection pages on the QMUL website.
You can find our Data Protection Policy on the Policy Zone .
Please note that Queen Mary University of London Students’ Union and the University of London are separate data controllers, as is Barts Health NHS Trust.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/pathway-programmes/ify:
Taught by Queen Mary academics at our Mile End and Whitechapel campuses, the International Foundation Year offers progression onto more than 100 bachelors degree programmes.
Our pathways offer International and EU students subject-specific preparation for undergraduate degree study at Queen Mary University of London and other UK universities.
When you successfully complete the foundation year, you will progress onto one of more than 100 undergraduate degrees.
The Humanities and Social Sciences Foundation Programme Convenor and two international students give an overview of their Foundation Year experience.
Students explain how the Foundation year has helped them with their preparation for their undergraduate degree programmes at Queen Mary University of London.
Select your subject area below to find out more and submit your application.
We accept a wide-range of qualifications for entry onto the International Foundation Year.
The grades you need to enter the IFY will vary depending on what qualifications you have completed, and the pathway you wish to study.
Students will also need to meet minimum English language requirements
Please click here for further details.
One of the benefits of the International Foundation Year is that you will receive teaching from award winning Queen Mary academics.
You'll receive approximately 15 to 28 hours of weekly contact time, in the form of lectures and seminars.
You will be encouraged to contribute to seminars through pair work, group work, discussion, presentation and case studies.
We use a mixture of teaching styles – lectures, tutorials, classroom activities and laboratory work for students on the Science and Engineering route.
You will also complete a further 20 to 25 hours of independent study each week.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (writing tests, reports, presentations, seminar skills, portfolios) and/or examination.
Your English Language and Academic Study Skills classes will be delivered by the multiple award-winning School of Languages, Linguistics and Film, who were recognised in 2019 with the Queen Mary Educational Excellence Award and Principals Award for their teaching excellence.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/clearing/fmd-alternatives:
We offer a range of programmes that will allow you to pursue your interest in science and develop a career with applications to healthcare and medicine.
Whether you aspire to solve medical challenges as a laboratory-based researcher, change lives by developing new medical devices, enter into healthcare management or work for charities, governments and organisations involved in health and medicine, our programmes offer a range of exciting entry routes.
In addition, many of our graduates continue into medicine, here and elsewhere.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/digital-library:
Video

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/resources-we-offer:
Please visit the intranet for information on the Events Forum and Queen Mary Presents.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with us at events@qmul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/visitorinfo:
Events are hosted on all four of Queen Mary’s campuses.
Please see maps and directions .
Please note that all Queen Mary campuses are no smoking.
Please be advised that no parking for visitors is available at any of our sites.
There are a limited number of parking spaces for Blue Badge holders, but we advise you to check with our Security Team in advance to ensure availability.
Please contact the relevant Security Team, depending on which campus you are visiting:
Mile End Tel: 020 7882 5000 email: mile-end-security@qmul.ac.uk
Whitechapel Tel: 020 7882 2599 email: whitechapel-security@qmul.ac.uk
Charterhouse Square Tel: 020 7882 6020 email: chsq-security@qmul.ac.uk
If you have other accessibility requirements, please contact the event organiser as soon as possible to discuss.
Their details are listed on each individual event listing.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/queenmarypresents:
Queen Mary presents ensures that anyone, everywhere, can be part of Queen Mary’s discourse.
From Q&A events, to panel discussions and podcasts, Queen Mary presents provides world-class events and conversations.
Join our leaders of pioneering research and passionate changemakers to tackle the big questions of the day and discuss the challenges that impact us all.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/events/university-days:
We offer a range of Undergraduate, Postgraduate and International events to help you discover student and academic life at Queen Mary.
Speak to our students about their experience at Queen Mary
If you have any questions, please contact us via the link below.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/events:
This page is kept regularly updated, so please look at the dates and times to see which one suits you best.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions:
Do you want to join our community of accomplished students and alumni?
Find the information you need on our regional webpages.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/north-america-and-caribbean:
Students from across North America and the Caribbean have long been making Queen Mary University of London their home away from home.
Hear from current Economics and International Finance student Karen Rodriguez on embracing the diverse international community here at Queen Mary.
Want to know more about studying at QMUL?
Connect with us today!
Get to Know Queen Mary
Queen Mary is a truly global University with a community that includes students and staff from over 170 countries around the world!
Each year we welcome around 400 students from across North America and the Caribbean for undergraduate , postgraduate , and pathway programmes , and hundreds more participate in our study abroad offerings.
The rigour of our academic programmes and the opportunities to live and study in the heart of historic East London, mean there will always be more to explore in and outside the classroom.
Queen Mary operates across 5 campuses in London, and our main campus at Mile End (one of the largest in London), provides a safe and inviting environment to study and connect.
We know that there is a lot of research to do in finding the right fit for your university studies.
Use the links below to gather more information about Queen Mary, accommodations (housing), student life, and the application process.
Funding at Queen Mary
We are proud to partner with organizations that help to financially support students studying with us including Chevening , the Commonwealth Master’s Scholarships , and the Fulbright Commission .
You can find more information on scholarships, including our searchable database, on the Scholarships page .
Many of our students from North America use government loans to fund their studies.
While the administration of some of these programmes differs when students use them overseas, we have lots of helpful guidance on how to utilize the programmes here:
If you have any more questions, please do contact our Regional Manager, Kate Glaser.
Kate is based in the American Midwest and travels frequently so please check our page for details of any upcoming events where you can meet Kate and learn more about the University.
Our International Student Recruitment team works most closely with students who are looking to study their full degree with us.
If you are a student who is interested in coming to Queen Mary as part of a study abroad programme, you can find more information about studying abroad in London from our Global Opportunities team.
Regional Manager - North America

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/latin-central-and-south-america:
We welcomed 170 students from Latin America to Queen Mary during the 2023/24 academic year, with 10 countries across the region represented on campus.
We know that there is a lot of research to do to find the right fit for your university studies.
Our regional pages will help you to gather more information about student life at the University, what you need to apply and the opportunities it has opened to some of our alumni from Latin America.
We are proud to be in partnership with a number of organizations that help our students fund their studies, including CONACyT , Colfuturo , ANID Becas Chile and ANII Becas .
We hope you find the information you are looking for but if you have any questions or want to know more, please get in touch with Anita Walton, Regional Manager for Latin America.
You can find her details below.
Also, be sure to check out the Connect With Us page for details of any upcoming events where you can meet Anita or another member of the International Student Recruitment team and learn more.
Regional Manager - Latin America

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/europe:
Queen Mary University of London has a long and proud history of welcoming students from across Europe to study with us, and we are pleased that over 1000 students from Europe made Queen Mary their home for the 2021/2022 academic year.
However, our relationship reaches much further than the 41 countries from which we welcomed full degree students in 2021.
With our medical school campus in Malta, our campus in Paris, and our five campuses across London, our students have opportunities to study across the European continent.
And if students are interested in exploring more of what Europe has to offer, the Global Opportunities office has lots of information about European exchanges.
If you are currently an international student studying in the UK, you can also find information to help you here.
Finding the right university requires a lot of research and the information below will provide you with information about entry requirements, give you a chance to hear from our current students about life at Queen Mary and to see some of the doors a Queen Mary degree has helped open for our European alumni.
If you have any further questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch with our regional managers, Joanne Waller (Europe) and Dr Robert Duncan (UK International).
You can also check out the Connect With Us page for upcoming events to meet Joanne, Rob, or another member of the International Student Recruitment Team to learn more.
In June 2022 the International Student Recruitment Team recorded a Regional Podcast focused on Europe and CIS .
Members of the team sat down with colleagues from Admissions, a senior faculty member and a current student to get the lowdown on everything you'll need to take the next step on your international study journey - from how to engage with Queen Mary from your country, student success stories, entrance requirements and tips on making a great application!
Regional Manager - Europe, Turkey and CIS
Regional Manager - Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia and International students within the UK

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/turkey-caucasus-and-central-asia:
Our students come from around the corner and around the globe and it is this diversity of community that helps to make Queen Mary University of London a Russell Group University with a difference.
With a long history of welcoming students from Turkey, Central Asia, and the Caucuses, we hope that Queen Mary is a place where you can find your future.
We know that there is a lot of research to do in finding the right fit for your university studies – our regional pages will help you to gather more information about the University, what you need to apply and the opportunities it has opened to some of our alumni from Turkey, Central Asia and the Caucuses.
Our teams are always here to help.
We are also proud to partner with organizations that help to support students to fund their studies at Queen Mary University of London, including the Chevening Scholarship .
More information about available scholarships, and our searchable scholarships database, can be found on the Scholarships and Funding page .
If you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out to Joanne Waller, Regional Manager for Europe, Turkey and CIS.
You can find details of any upcoming events where you can meet Joanne or another colleague from the International Student Recruitment team on our Connect With Us page .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/middle-east:
With our reputation for serious scholarship and our exciting East London location, Queen Mary University of London is home to over 950 students from countries across the Middle East for the 2023/2024 academic year.
With the whole of London on your doorstep, it is the perfect location to explore everything the city has to offer while working towards your degree at a Russell Group university.
Finding the right university requires a lot of research and we hope these pages will be a comprehensive guide; you can find information about the entry requirements, hear our current students share their experiences and explore student life at the university.
Of course, your relationship to the University does not end when you stop being a student; take a look to see some of the doors a Queen Mary degree has helped open for our alumni from across the Middle East.
If you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out to Charlotte Murphy, Regional Manager for the Middle East.
You can find details of any upcoming events where you can meet Charlotte or another colleague from the International Student Recruitment team on the Connect With Us Page.
Regional Manager - Middle East
Book a 1-2-1 session
middleeast@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/africa:
At Queen Mary we take pride in being “home” to students from around the world.
Each year we welcome an array of thinkers, changemakers and future leaders from over 170 countries to our five campuses around London.
In 2023, over 350 students from 36 African nations were part of Queen Mary community in the heart of London.
Finding the right fit for programmes and universities requires a lot of research – our regional pages will help you to gather more information about the University, what you need to apply and what opportunities it has opened to some of our alumni from Africa.
We are also proud to partner with organizations that help to support students to fund their studies at Queen Mary University of London, including Chevening and Commonwealth Master’s Scholarships .
More information about available scholarships, and our searchable scholarships database, can be found on our Scholarships and Funding page .
If you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out to Anita Walton, Regional Manager for Africa.
You can find details of any upcoming events where you can meet Anita or another colleague from the International Student Recruitment team on our Connect With Us page .
Regional Manager - Africa

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/south-east-asia:
We have been welcoming students from South East Asia for over 50 years and hope that these pages will give you all of the information that you need to apply to Queen Mary and ensure that you make the most of your time in London with us.
Queen Mary is a truly global University with a community that includes students and staff from over 170 countries around the world.
Every year we are home to around 600 students from South East Asia who study a range of undergraduate, postgraduate and pathway programmes.
We are a Russell Group University, operating across seven campuses in London alongside sites across Europe and Asia.
Whether you are interested in Engineering, Law, Medicine or one of the hundreds of programmes that are taught across our three faculties, we are here to guide you during the application journey.
Queen Mary has staff based in Kuala Lumpur and London who will be happy to answer your questions.
Please feel free to contact Siewmang Yee and Keng Lip Phng for Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines, or Dr Robert Duncan for Cambodia, Vietnam and Thailand.
Alternatively, you can email to seasia@qmul.ac.uk and we will be more than happy to assist you.
Follow us on QmulSEA for exciting news updates.
In December 2022 the International Student Recruitment Team recorded a Regional Podcast focused on South East Asia .
Members of the team sat down with colleagues from Admissions and a current student to get the lowdown on everything you'll need to take the next step on your international study journey - from how to engage with Queen Mary from your country, student success stories, entrance requirements and tips on making a great application!
Regional Manager - Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea and Philippines
Regional Adviser - Malaysia

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/south-asia:
In 2022 alone, we had over 1500 students enrol at Queen Mary, from Bangladesh, to Pakistan and India.
We strive to ensure you are equipped to make the most of your experience as a student at Queen Mary.
Our regional pages provide a rich and comprehensive guide to studying at our world class university.
Explore our South Asia hub and find out about an array of possibilities to help prepare you to make positive change a reality.
Our resources help you find your way around our campus, get to know your student union, discover invaluable careers support and check out the latest events happening at Queen Mary.
And who better to tell you about life at Queen Mary than our own students and alumni?
In “Student Life at Queen Mary” we’ve compiled the experiences, tips and hints of our existing cohort to help you get the best start to this chapter of your life.
Principal Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC )
Regional Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC )
Senior Recruitment Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC )
Recruitment Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC )
Assistant Recruitment Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC )
Regional Manager - Pakistan
Senior Regional Advisor - Pakistan
We host virtual sessions every month where you can interact with the team.
Please tell us if you would like to register your interest or ask a question.
Connect with us virtually or in person at various events across the country.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/east-asia:
Queen Mary has a long and proud history of welcoming scholars and students from East Asia to our campuses in London.
Thousands of students from across the region make Queen Mary their home every year and take advantage of our close links to industry and campuses that are located close to the two financial centres of the UK.
The appeal of Queen Mary in East Asia can be attributed to our rich history and academic reputation.
The roots of Queen Mary can be traced back to 1843 when St Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical College was established.
Today, we are home to over 32,000 students with over 170 nationalities represented on our seven campuses in London.
We are a proud member of the Russell Group, consisting of the UK's 24 elite Research Universities, and we rank 5th in the UK for the quality of research outputs.
The most recent QS World Rankings place Queen Mary 19 th in the UK and subjects such as Dentistry, Law, and Medicine are ranked in the top 30 in the world.
Join Our Global Community - YouTube
To find out more , please contact any of our colleagues in China Office , Vicky Lo for Hong Kong, Taiwan and Greater Bay of China; or Siewmang Yee , Regional Manager for Japan and South Korea.
You can find details of any upcoming events where you can meet staff from Queen Mary via the connect page or contact us via social media: Japan and South Korea.
Regional Head (East Asia) Mainland China, Mongolia, Macao and Taiwan
ying.wang@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Recruitment Manager Mainland China and Mongolia
eva.guo@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Manager Hong Kong, Taiwan, Macau and South China
v.lo@qmul.ac.uk
International Officer (East Asia)
gloria.wen@qmul.ac.uk
International Marketing Officer (East Asia)
tianyi.wang@qmul.ac.uk
微信公众号：伦敦玛丽女王大学
新浪微博：@伦敦玛丽女王大学
抖音：伦敦玛丽女王大学
b站：英国伦敦玛丽女王大学
小红书：伦敦玛丽女王大学

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/east-asia/china-landing-page:
立即注册，随时了解 伦敦玛丽女王大学 的最新资讯
伦敦玛丽女王大学 位置：伦敦 Mile End Road 邮编：E1 4NS 电话：+44 (0) 20 7882 5555

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/regions/oceania:
Queen Mary has a long and proud history of welcoming scholars and students from Oceania to our campuses in London.
Thousands of students from across the the world make Queen Mary their home every year and take advantage of our close links to industry and campuses that are located close to the two financial centres of the UK.
Today, we are home to around 30,000 students with over 170 nationalities represented on campus.
We are also proud to partner with organizations that help to support students to fund their studies at Queen Mary University of London including the Chevening Scholarship .
If you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out to the Global Engagement Office.
You can find details of any upcoming events where you can meet Charlotte or another colleague from the International Student Recruitment team on our Connect With Us page .
globalengagement@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/how-to-apply:
If you’re thinking of applying for one of our Foundation or Pre-Masters Programmes, please visit our dedicated Pathways programmes page.
Pathways programmes
Students can apply to Queen Mary directly, or via UCAS for undergraduate programmes.
If further assistance, or guidance is sought, students can seek the advice of an educational agent.
Queen Mary University of London partners with a global network of agents who offer guidance and assistance to prospective students and offer holders in their university selection process.
These agents provide support throughout selection and application process, the visa application and preparing to come to the UK.
All members of our agent network hold a commercial contract with Queen Mary.
Contracted agents work closely with our Regional Managers who deliver training and support to ensure agents have comprehensive knowledge about Queen Mary University of London and our processes, providing effective services to the students they assist.
In many cases, if a student utilising the services of a contracted agent enrols at Queen Mary, the agent will receive commission.
Agents contracted by the university can be found on the Entry Requirements tab for respective countries listed on our Regional Web Pages .
Prospective students are free to choose which agent they work with, including those not contracted with us.
However, due to GDPR regulations, please note we cannot share application details with non-contracted agents.
Members of our agent network undergo UK agent and counsellor training .
Additionally, Queen Mary University of London is a signatory of the UK Agent Quality Framework , committing to enhancing the partnership between the UK Education Sector and agents and counsellors, as well as recognising and sharing best practices.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/how-to-apply/cas-and-visa:
International students requiring a CAS and a Student Visa will find useful information below regarding student immigration information.
The information on this page is intended for new students joining Queen Mary University.
Current and continuing students should view our Immigration pages for current students, and contact the Student Enquiry Centre directly for further information.
We encourage you to visit our Advice and Counselling Service webpage where they have advice for international students and visas .
There you can learn more about the application process and how to evidence that you have the required funds for your visa application.
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) is a unique number issued to you by Queen Mary which allows you to apply for a Student visa with the UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI) service.
When we issue a CAS to you, we are confirming that Queen Mary will sponsor your studies in the UK.
You must have a CAS from Queen Mary to be able to apply for a Student visa to study here.
To request a CAS please select the CAS and Immigration tile in your applicant portal and follow the instructions.
You will not be issued a CAS until you have firmly accepted an unconditional offer, paid any required deposit and the CAS issuing window must be open.
You can apply from overseas up to 6 months before your course start date.
A CAS number can be issued 6 months before the course start if all the criteria have been met such as:
QMUL will make the final decision on when we start issuing CASs for courses.
You will be sent a CAS verification email once the process is open but only if you have met all the requirements for the CAS to be issued.
The CAS can only be used once and is valid for six months from the date of being issued.
The CAS will be sent electronically via email or an in-tray message in your applicant portal depending on how you requested it.
It will also be available in your MySIS portal.
As part of the CAS request and issuing process, you will be asked to verify your CAS details via MySIS before the CAS number is issued.
It is very important that you check the details carefully and let us know if any changes are required before we issue the CAS.
Please note that we may not be able to change or update the details included in your CAS once it has been issued.
If there are any errors, you are at risk of having your visa application refused.
If your course starts on a different date, we will calculate the latest date for issuing a CAS, but you should note that this is normally three weeks before the start of your course.
Individual exceptions may apply - if you are at all unsure, please contact your specialist Admissions team directly via email, the contact address for which will have been provided in earlier applicant email communications.
For further details on key dates and deadlines for Postgraduate Taught programmes, please visit our webpages .
If you are required to pay a university fee deposit, please be aware that the CAS process can only begin once we have received a deposit payment.
Where applicable, any university fee deposit must have been completed, and the payment received by the University before we will issue a CAS.
Students should ensure that necessary fee deposits are completed in a timely fashion before the latest CAS issue dates.
Full information on Queen Mary's fee deposit policy can be found on our Tuition Fee Deposit webpage .
If you wish to check that the deposit payment has been received, please contact the Finance Office directly.
When making your Student visa application, it is essential that you meet the UKVI financial requirements .
80% of visa application refusals are caused by the applicant's failure to meet UKVI financial requirements.
The general requirement is to show you have enough money to pay your 1st year course fees plus the required maintenance available in your bank account 28 days prior to making your visa application.
For immigration advice including information on the financial requirements of a Student visa application, you can contact a member of our Advice and Counselling team.
Any payments you have made towards your university fees will be stated on your CAS.
For example, if you are applying for a visa to study a 1-year Master's course and:
Then your CAS will state: "Course Fees for the Year: £16,500, Course Fees Paid so far: £4,000 and you must have £12,500 in your account for your university fees in addition to the funds for your living costs."
Please see our Advice and Counselling webpages for more information on financial requirements for your Student visa.
Any money you use for maintenance (university fees and living costs) must be in your account for a period of 28 consecutive days.
During this 28-day period, the money in this account must not fall below the required amount for even one day.
If it does fall below the requried amount, you will not meet the Home Office requirements and your visa application will be refused.
Your bank statement must be no more than 31 days old on the date of your visa application.
If you make a course fee payment after you have been issued the CAS it is important that you let the CAS Admissions team know, so this can be reflected on your CAS.
Please email cas-admissions@qmul.ac.uk with your application reference number, confirming the amount that has been paid.
Once this has been verified with our Finance team, your CAS will be updated and you will be sent confirmation.
When making payments, it is important that you include your application reference number as a reference so our Finance team can link the payment to you.
We will not include the £400 deposit payment for accommodation as this is a returnable deposit.
We strongly recommend that you refer to the Student Route Policy Guidance , or read our Advice and Counselling page on Funds for your Student visa application before making your visa application.
If your visa application is refused because you have failed to meet the UKVI Financial requirements, you will be required to pay additional costs to make a new visa application and the delay may mean that you cannot start your course on time.
Please also refer to the section below, titled 'Visa Application Refusals' for further information.
The entry qualification is the academic qualification Queen Mary used to assess your university application and make an offer of study.
The qualifications will be listed on your CAS and should contain the correct academic title, awarding body and year it was awarded.
Please our Advice and Counselling webpages for more information on supporting documents.
If your course requires Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) clearance, we will not issue a CAS until we have received a copy of the ATAS certificate.
ATAS applications do not cost anything and can be made from 9 months before the course start date.
Your visa application will be refused if an ATAS certificate is requried and not submitted.
Information about which courses require ATAS clearance can be found on the Undergraduate and Postgraduate Course Finders respectively.
You will be required to have a Tuberculosis (TB) test if you are coming to the UK for more than six months and are resident in any of these listed countries .
If you fail to submit a required TB test with a Student route visa application, it will be refused.
You will not require a TB test if any of the following apply:
If your visa application is refused by UKVI you should send a full copy of the refusal letter from the UKVI to cas-admissions@qmul.ac.uk .
It is essential that you read this section as it includes important information.
If your visa is refused, the Queen Mary Advice and Counselling Service has a guide titled ' My application has been refused '.
If you understand the grounds for the refusal, which are explained in the refusal notice, the guide includes detailed information about what options may be available to you now, and important information about deadlines you will need to be aware of.
If after reading the guide you need further advice about your situation, you can contact the Advice and Counselling Service with your specific questions or concern.
We will only issue a second CAS once you have supplied proof that you have all the relevant documents and financial evidence in place to submit a valid visa application.
This will include bank statements / financial letters, qualification documents, TB certificates (if required) and any other information which is relevant to the reasons for the refusal.
Please do not contact us until you have all the documents in place to request a second CAS.
Queen Mary will not issue you a third CAS if you receive two visa application refusals.
We reserve the right not to issue a second CAS if we believe the second application is likely to be refused.
If you are accepted to study a second Master in the UK and require a CAS to make a Student visa application, you have two options:
Stage one
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
Stage 6
If you are unsure or have any outstanding queries or concerns not answered above, please contact your specialist Admissions team directly via email.
The appropriate contact address will have been communicated to you via emails sent to you throughout the application process.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/agents:
Our authorised representatives will guide you through the application process and prepare you for your academic journey.
We collaborate with a global network of agents who offer valuable support and assistance to prospective students and those who have been offered a place at our institution.
Each member of our overseas representative network has a formal contract with Queen Mary, ensuring they are equipped to provide expert guidance.
These contracted agents undergo thorough training and receive ongoing support from our university staff, enabling them to offer comprehensive information about Queen Mary and our application procedures.
By working closely with our representatives, we ensure that students receive effective and reliable services.
In many instances, if a student who has utilized the services of a contracted agent enrols at Queen Mary, the agent may receive a commission.
We regularly assess the performance of each representative, considering various factors, and gather feedback from students to ensure that our agents consistently uphold the high standards we have set.
Find representatives where you are
Our international representatives are able to:
It's important to note that representatives cannot extend offers of study.
Following the submission of your application, decisions are made solely by the university.
Prior to engaging with any of our listed representatives, it's crucial to clarify any service charges and expectations upfront.
Please refrain from making any payments, including deposits, to representatives; these transactions should only be conducted directly with the university.
For inquiries, feedback about our appointed representatives, or interest in becoming a Queen Mary representative, please reach out to our agent relations officer .
Queen Mary, University of London, is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains leading study destination for international students.
We have recently signed an agreement with the British Universities' International Liaison Association and the British Council, which declares that we are committed to:
Applicants can read more about working with Educational Agents in the Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent .
Each of our Representatives has provided us with evidence that they are trained by the British Council and are fully aware of UKVI Laws and compliance.
If you have any questions, please contact globalengagement@qmul.ac.uk
Queen Mary is committed to ensuring that all students receive high-quality support throughout their application process, including services provided by contracted members of the Queen Mary agent network.
If you experience an issue with one of our contracted partners, you may want to make a complaint.
You can submit complaints through our online form, available here or by contacting your Regional Manager.
You will be required to provide: your applicant ID, the name of the agency and the country in which they were providing you with application support, and a description of the issue.
We will acknowledge your complaint within 5 working days and provide you with a reference number for future correspondence.
We will endeavour to complete all investigations within 20 working days.
Upon resolution, you will receive a written response detailing the outcome and any actions taken.
All complaints will be handled confidentially, and UK data protection regulations will be strictly adhered to.
Any complaints regarding agent support will be handled with complete separation from any admissions decision or outcome should the complainant be an active Queen Mary applicant.
For further assistance, students can contact globalengagement@qmul.ac.uk
Check the list below and follow the links to our representatives' websites.
Representatives are also listed in our regional information pages.
This list is not exhaustive.
Education Basket
EduSmart
Global Study UK
IDP Education
Uni UK
StudyIn
LCI Group
Uniserv
PTC Education Consultants
AzeriStudent
StudyCare
Gateway Abroad
Global Education
Amber Education
Beijing New Oriental Vision Overseas Consulting
Education International Cooperation (EIC) Group
Global Education Alliance
Golden Arrow
HOPE International Education
Huatong International
Index Education Services
InterGreat Education Group
JJL Overseas Education
Power Academy
Shinyway Education
United Kingdom Education Centre (UKEC)
Welink Education
AAS Education Consultancy
Aston Education
British United Education Services
Hong Kong Education Web
HKIES Overseas Education Centre
LINKEDU Overseas Education
BEO
UKEN
UKUHAK.COM
UK Edu Centre
Gostudy
Index
OxBridge
UKEC
Study Experience
A.A.
Unilink Education Services Ltd
Zenol Education Centre
CES
Elab Education Laboratory
Kalba
Across the Pond
IEC
Vermilion
Edmundo
ITEC
Students International
Student Study
Edvoy
GoUni
InterGreat
Sagar Consultants
TopCourses
Gradeup Education Consultancy
MAS Education
The Grad School
Anglo Latino Education Partnership
Education Links
Education Resources Network
Global Vision for Academic Services
Uni-UK
IDP
My Arman Education Group (ApplyUniversity)
Bridge International for Academic Services
GESCO
Easy Apply
ULearn
Tajdid Education Consultants
Interstu
UK Uni
Educom International
IPC Gulf
IQ Education Consultants
Qadri International Educational Consultancy
UKESC
Alpha-I Consultants Ltd
MACES Bangladesh
Leverage Edu
Abroad Education Consultants
AECC Global
Eduabroad Consulting
Edwise International
Envision Overseas
GeeBee Education
Global Opportunities
Global Reach
International Learning Warehouse
International Placewell Consultants
Kavi Trivedi EduConsultants
KC Overseas Education
Let’s Talk by Sunita Bose
Santamonica
The Combine Company
ABN Overseas Education
Campus Connections
D’Educationist
Edify Consulting
Education resource Network
HR Consultants
MR Consultants
Naseem Khan Consultancy
Success Factor
Times Consultant
Up Skill
Crossroad Education
Education First
SpringBoard4Education
AUG Student Services
Jack Study Abroad
SUN Education Group
AUG Malaysia
MABECS
AUG Manila
AUG Global Network
BRIT Education UK
Hands On Consultants
LinkedU
Mango Learning Express
QS Student Apply
Superior Education Agency
WIN Education
GSE Vietnam
ISC Education
Azeristudent
Studynet Group
Students International Group
BEB Education Group
British Side
Edukas
Worldwide Education

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements:
Alongside meeting the academic entry requirements, all students must also meet the minimum English language entry requirements for their chosen programme in order to study at Queen Mary University of London.
The English language requirements for our programmes are indicated by English bands, and therefore the specific test and score acceptable is based on the band assigned to the academic department within which your chosen course of study is administered.
Note that for some academic departments there are programmes with non-standard English language requirements.
We accept a range of English tests and qualifications categorised in our English bands for you to demonstrate your level of English Language proficiency.
For more information please select from the options below.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements/undergraduate-and-postgraduate-programmes:
Below are our academic departments and the English bands assigned to them.
Degree programmes that are jointly run by two academic departments will follow the English band requirements of the ‘Home’ department.
See English Language requirements for our Foundation courses, Pre-Masters programmes, Masters with Integrated Pre-Masters programmes, and Study Abroad Programmes .
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of the Arts falls within the following English bands:
Undergraduate Programmes
Band 5: IELTS (Academic) minimum score 7.0 overall with 6.0 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Postgraduate Taught and Research Programmes
See all accepted English tests that we deem equivalent to these IELTS scores.
If you fall below our standard English Language requirements, you may consider one of our Pre-sessional English courses.
See Pre-sessional English course requirements .
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the Barts Cancer Institute falls within the following English bands:
No undergraduate programmes available in this academic department.
Band 4: IELTS (Academic) minimum score 6.5 overall with 6.0 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences falls within the following English bands:
Band 3: IELTS (Academic) minimum score 6.0 overall with 5.5 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
See postgraduate programmes with non-standard English language requirements in this School
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the Blizard Institute falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Business and Management falls within the following English bands:
Postgraduate Taught Programmes
Postgraduate Research Programmes
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the Institute of Dentistry falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Economics and Finance falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Engineering and Materials Science falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Geography falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the Institute of Health Sciences Education falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of History falls within the following English bands:
All undergraduate programmes in this school have non-standard English language requirements.
See non-standard English language requirements .
All postgraduate programmes in this school have non-standard English language requirements.
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Mathematical Sciences falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Physical and Chemical Sciences falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the School of Politics and International Relations falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the William Harvey Research Institute falls within the following English bands:
The English Language requirements for entry to programmes in the Wolfson Institute of Population Health falls within the following English bands:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements/foundations-premasters-studyabroad:
The English language requirements for our programmes are indicated by English bands, and therefore the specific test and score acceptable is based on the band assigned to your chosen course of study.
Below are our range of Foundation courses, Pre-Masters programmes, Masters with Integrated Pre-Masters programmes, and Study Abroad Programmes and the English bands assigned to them.
The English Language requirements for entry to Foundation programmes integrated with Undergraduate degrees falls within the following English band:
Band 2: IELTS (Academic) minimum score of 5.5 overall with 5.5 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
The English Language requirements for entry to International Foundation Year programmes falls within the following English bands (Also see * for important note about SELT requirement):
Band 1: IELTS (Academic) minimum score of 5.0 overall with 5.0 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking*
Band 2: IELTS (Academic) minimum score of 5.5 overall with 5.5 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking*
The English Language requirements for entry to Pre-Masters Programmes and Masters Degrees with Integrated Pre-Masters falls within the following English band:
The English Language requirements for entry to Study Abroad Programmes and Exchange Programmes (applications through the Global Opportunities Office) falls within the following English band:
Band 5: IELTS (Academic) minimum score of 7.0 overall with 6.0 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Pre-sessional English courses are not available for entry to Study Abroad Programmes and Exchange Programmes.
*SELT requirement - Those that are looking to study a standalone (i.e.
not integrated with degree) Foundation programme at level 3 (such as our International Foundation Years) and are not nationals of a Majority English Speaking Country (as defined by UKVI) must meet the requirements through an English test which is deemed as a SELT (Secure English Language Test) by UKVI and approved by Queen Mary as acceptable such as IELTS Academic UKVI or PTE Academic UKVI.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements/programmes-with-non-standard-requirements:
The English language requirements for our programmes are indicated by English bands , and therefore the specific test and score acceptable is based on the band assigned to the academic department within which your chosen course of study is administered.
However, there are selected programmes that are not banded and therefore have non-standard English Language requirements - these programmes are all listed on this page below.
If you are a national of any country NOT listed on UKVI’s ‘ Differential evidence requirement for a Student’ list, we can only accept from you an English test (or qualification) from our approved list that can be verified by us at Queen Mary directly at source on the test (or qualification) provider’s verification portal.
UKVI’s ‘ Differential evidence requirement for a Student’ list can be found under section ST 22.1 of the Immigration Rules .
See more important notes.
The following programmes in School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences do not follow the department's usual English banding.
The English Language requirements for these programmes are as follows:
IELTS Academic, IELTS Online, IELTS Indicator: minimum score 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in Listening, Reading and Speaking
TOEFL iBT, TOEFL iBT Home Edition: minimum score 100 overall with 24 in Writing, 18 in Reading, 17 in Listening and 20 in Speaking.
PTE Academic, PTE Academic UKVI, PTE Academic Online: minimum score 76 overall with 71 in Writing, and 59 in Listening, Reading and Speaking.
See all alternative accepted English tests that we deem equivalent to these test scores.
If you fall below these English Language requirements, you may consider one of our Pre-sessional English courses .
The Pre-sessional English course requirements for programmes with non-standard language requirements in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences are below:
Presessional English Requirements - 5 week course:
Presessional English Requirements - 9 week course:
Presessional English Requirements - 13 week course:
The following programmes in the Blizard Institute do not follow the department's usual English banding.
The Pre-sessional English course requirements for programmes with non-standard language requirements in the Blizard Institute are below:
All programmes in this school have non-standard English language requirements.
The English Language requirements for this school are separated below by Undergraduate degrees, Postgraduate Taught degrees, and Postgraduate Research degrees.
The Pre-sessional English course requirements for all undergraduate programmes in the School of Law are below:
IELTS Academic, IELTS Online, IELTS Indicator: minimum score 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 6.0 in Listening, Reading and Speaking
TOEFL iBT, TOEFL iBT Home Edition: minimum score 100 overall with 24 in Writing, 19 in Reading, 18 in Listening and 21 in Speaking.
PTE Academic, PTE Academic UKVI, PTE Academic Online: minimum score 76 overall with 71 in Writing, and 65 in Listening, Reading and Speaking.
The Pre-sessional English course requirements for all postgraduate taught programmes in the School of Law are below:
The following programmes are not eligible for the Pre-sessional English course as they have an earlier start date and the teaching dates are not compatible.
In-Sessional English Courses for Postgraduate Taught Programmes in the School of Law
If your IELTS Academic Writing score is 0.5 below the English language requirements (or equivalent), to enter School of Law postgraduate taught programmes, you may not need to do a Pre-sessional course or re-sit your IELTS, as you could enter by doing our In-sessional English course: Critical Thinking and Writing in Law.
When we receive your results we will automatically consider you for the In-Sessional course by checking if you meet the thresholds.
The Queen Mary In-Sessional programme: Critical Thinking and Writing in Law is free to registered Postgraudate Taught Programme students in the School of Law and runs in Semesters 1,2, and 3.
Registered Postgraudate Taught Programme students in the School of Law with higher English Language scores may join the programme for free if they wish.
Students who narrowly miss the standard English language requirements will automatically be considered for the in-sessional programme in line with the requirements below:
IELTS Academic, IELTS Online, IELTS Indicator: minimum score 7.0 overall with 6.0 in Writing and 6.0 in Listening, Reading and Speaking
TOEFL iBT, TOEFL iBT Home Edition: minimum score 100 overall with 21 in Writing, 19 in Reading, 18 in Listening and 21 in Speaking.
PTE Academic, PTE Academic UKVI, PTE Academic Online: minimum score 76 overall with 65 in Writing, and 65 in Listening, Reading and Speaking.
IELTS Academic, IELTS Online, IELTS Indicator: minimum score 7.5 overall with 7.0 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
TOEFL iBT, TOEFL iBT Home Edition: minimum score 108 overall with 27 in Writing, 24 in Reading, 22 in Listening and 25 in Speaking.
PTE Academic, PTE Academic UKVI, PTE Academic Online: minimum score 79 overall with 76 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking.
The following programmes in the William Harvey Research Institute do not follow the department's usual English banding.
The Pre-sessional English course requirements for programmes with non-standard language requirements in the William Harvey Research Institute are below:
These are deemed equivalent to above IELTS, TOEFL and PTE scores.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the College Board’s Advanced Placement test in English Language and Composition/English Literature and Composition to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Validity period: This qualification should have been achieved no more than 7 years from the start date of your course**
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Austrian Reifeprufung/Matura to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Validity period: This qualification should have been achieved no more than 5 years from the start date of your course**
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Bellerbys College Academic English Skills (AES) test to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Validity period: This test should have been achieved no more than 2 years from the start date of your course*
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Cambridge C1 Advanced (formerly known as Cambridge English: Advanced (CAE)) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require 185 overall with 176 in Writing and 162 in all other components from the Cambridge C1 Advanced, according to the requirements below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Cambridge C2 Proficiency (formerly known as Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE)) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require 185 overall with 176 in Writing and 162 in all other components from the Cambridge C2 Proficiency, according to the requirements below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English module from Canada High School Qualifications to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below, provided the qualifications are delivered in Canada.
The English module mark required relates to Year 12 but all students must have also taken the English module in Year 11.
Equivalent to IELTS 7.5: A minimum mark of 80% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
All students from all provinces must have also studied English in year 11.
From Quebec and New Brunswick, we can consider a mark of 80% in the grade 12 English module only if students can additionally demonstrate the whole High School Qualification was taught and examined in English (and also studied English in year 11).
Equivalent to IELTS 7.0: A minimum mark of 75% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
From Quebec and New Brunswick, we can consider a mark of 75% in the grade 12 English module only if students can additionally demonstrate the whole High School Qualification was taught and examined in English (and also studied English in year 11).
Equivalent to IELTS 6.5: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
From Quebec and New Brunswick, we can consider a mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module only if students can additionally demonstrate the whole High School Qualification was taught and examined in English (and also studied English in year 11).
Equivalent to IELTS 6.0: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Equivalent to IELTS 5.5: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Queen Mary University of London will consider the following English papers from the CIE iGCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Danish Almen Studentereksamen (STX), Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF), Mekantil Studentereksamen (HHX), Teknisk Studentereksamen (HTX) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the English component of the Voorbereidend Wetenshappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the following English papers from the Edexcel iGCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the European Baccalaureate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Advanced Course of the Finnish Ylioppilastutkintotodistus (Matriculation Examination) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component from the upper secondary cycle of the French Baccalaureate General, known as Langue vivante A (Anglais) or Langue vivante B (Anglais) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the 'English Language and Literature' module that is taken as part of the French Baccalaureate International (BFI) from 2024 provided it is the British, American or Australian streams of this qualification to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Equivalent to IELTS 7.5: A minimum mark of 13 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Equivalent to IELTS 7.0: A minimum mark of 12 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Equivalent to IELTS 6.5: A minimum mark of 12 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Queen Mary University of London will consider the 'English Language and Literature' module that is taken as part of the French Baccalaureate International Option (OIB) up to 2023 provided it is the British or American streams of this qualification to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE A-Level/AS-Level English Language, or English Literature, or English Language & Literature to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O Level English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O Level English Language from the Cambridge International exam board to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider both GCSE English Language and GCSE English Literature to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the German Abitur to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English core component of the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the CBSE and ISC Indian Standard XII examinations to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the International Baccalaureate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider Higher Level English component of the Irish Leaving Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Irish Leaving Certificate awarded from 2017 onwards
Irish Leaving Certificate awarded up until 2016
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Kaplan Test of English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require 526 overall (Main Flight) with 498 in Writing and 425 in all other components from the Kaplan Test of English, according to the requirements below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Please note that normally the relevant indicated grades (e.g.
B or C) must be achieved, and therefore for example C- and B - (grades shown with a minus) will be considered a level below.
Equivalent to IELTS 7.5: grade B+ in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Equivalent to IELTS 7.0: grade B in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Equivalent to IELTS 6.5: grade B in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Important note: If you are a national of any country NOT listed on UKVI’s ‘Differential evidence requirement for a Student’ list, we can only accept from you an English test (or qualification) from our approved list that can be verified by us at Queen Mary directly at source on the test (or qualification) provider’s verification portal.
UKVI’s ‘Differential evidence requirement for a Student’ list can be found under section ST 22.1 of the Immigration Rules .
Queen Mary University of London will consider the LanguageCert Academic English test or the LanguageCert Academic English SELT test to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
We currently only accept the LanguageCert Academic English test if delivered at Test Centres (and so do not accept the online version of this test).
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require 75 overall with 70 in Writing and 60 in all other components from the LanguageCert Academic English test, according to the requirements below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O level 1119 English Language that appeared in the Malaysian SPM (Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia) and awarded in collaboration with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
This qualification can only be considered if awarded up to and including the year 2020.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Mauritius CIE Higher School Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements,according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the NCUK English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the NCUK English for Academic Purposes (EAP) module to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require A overall with B in Writing and D in all other components from the NCUK EAP, according to the requirements below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Vitnemål for videregaende opplaering (VVO) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the National University of Singapore High School Diploma to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the On Campus Test of English (OCTOE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Requirements will mirror our IELTS requirements, for example if a programme requires IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 5.5 in all other components, we will require 70% overall with 65% in Writing and 55% in all other components from the OCTOE, according to the requirements below.
Equivalent to IELTS 7.5: OCTOE mark of 75% (see note above regarding component scores)
Equivalent to IELTS 7.0: OCTOE mark of 70% (see note above regarding component scores)
Equivalent to IELTS 6.5: OCTOE mark of 65% (see note above regarding component scores)
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Pearson Edexcel International GCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Find the English band required for the course you wish to study
Queen Mary University of London offers a range of presessional English Language courses [insert hyperlink https://www.qmul.ac.uk/sllf/language-centre/pre-sessional/  ],which provide excellent preparation for your future study.
See Pre-sessional English course requirements for programmes with non-standard English language requirements on this page above.
Further details on the application process can be found here [insert hyperlink: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/sllf/language-centre/pre-sessional/pse-summer-apply/  ]
Alternatively we will consider BALEAP accredited [https://www.baleap.org/about-baleap/accredited-institutions ] pre-sessional English language courses on a case by case basis.
Reading, Writing, Listening and Speaking scores will be evaluated against our standard entry requirements.
Pre-sessional courses must have been completed no more than 2 years from the start date of your course*
Queen Mary University of London will consider the SQA Higher/Advanced Higher English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Singapore-Cambridge GCE O-Level English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language module in Secondary 4 of the Singapore Integrated Programme to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the South African National Senior Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the ‘English 7 subject’ of the Swedish Hogskoleforberedande Examen (Higher Education Preparatory Diploma) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Trinity College London, Integrated Skills in English (ISE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Validity period: This qualification should have been achieved no more than 2 years from the start date of your course*
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Grade 12 level English module from the US High School Graduation Diploma to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below, provided the qualification is delivered in the USA.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language component of the West African Senior School Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language component of the West Indian Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the IELTS equivalencies below.
* the validity period for this test will be extended to 5 years from the start date of the course for any of our programmes that are less than 6 months in duration (provided a Student visa is not required) or for our programmes delivered entirely by online study mode (excluding online delivered presessional English courses)
** this qualification will not have a validity period for any of our programmes that are less than 6 months in duration (provided a Student visa is not required) or for our programmes delivered entirely by online study mode (excluding online delivered presessional English courses)
Student Visa Regulations
If you will require a Student visa to study any of courses higher than level 3 (e.g.
Bachelor Degrees or Masters Degrees), you must meet the minimum English Language requirements to meet the UKVI regulations (equivalent to IELTS 5.5 in each of Writing, Reading, Speaking and Listening and the overall score).
However, note that many of our courses require higher grades.
Pre-sessional English Language Courses
Please note that you will require a UK government approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) for entry to our Pre-sessional English courses (unless you qualify for a joint CAS for the 5 and 9 week Pre-sessional courses).
Only IELTS Academic for UKVI, PTE Academic (UKVI), and Trinity ISE are accepted as SELT tests.
UK Qualifications at Majority English Speaking Countries
Two years of A-Level or BTEC study successfully completed in a Majority English Speaking Country (MESC as defined by UKVI) will automatically be accepted for entry, provided that it has been completed within five years of the proposed programme start date and delivered at the MESC.
Degrees from Majority English Speaking Countries
If you hold a degree from a majority English speaking country (MESC as defined by UKVI), provided we recognise the degree and deem it equivalent to UK degree, you may use this degree to satisfy the English language requirements for entry if it was delivered within the MESC.
Such degrees must have sufficient minimum years of study.
Canadian (or MESC) nationals with degrees delivered and awarded in Canada will be considered under this category.
All other degree holders, including those with MESC degrees delivered outside of MESC, must meet English Language requirements with a Queen Mary approved English language test or qualification.
Recent use of English in employment
If you have at least one year of recent employment using English as the main language of communication, we can consider on an individual basis a letter from your employer confirming your English language proficiency in all four component scores provided you additionally have a Queen Mary approved English language test (with the required scores) outside the standard validity period.
Professional Registration
We will accept evidence of current full registration with a licence to practise the General Medical Council, General Dental Council or General Pharmaceutical Council in lieu of an English language qualification.
Licence to practise or re-registration with a licence to practise must have been obtained within the past 5 years to be considered valid.
For further queries regarding acceptable English language qualifications, please contact the Admissions team directly via email to pgtadmissions@qmul.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements/accepted-english-language-tests-and-qualifications:
The English language requirements for our programmes are indicated by English bands, and therefore the specific test and score acceptable is based on the band assigned to the academic department within which a course of study is administered.
See which English band each of our academic departments falls within to find the English band required for the course you wish to study.
We have a range of acceptable English tests and qualifications listed below categorised in our English bands for you to demonstrate your level of English Language proficiency.
Queen Mary University of London approved English language tests must have been taken within the validity date stated, which is calculated against the proposed course start date.
See more important notes .
Queen Mary University of London will consider the IELTS Academic test, the IELTS Online test, and the IELTS Indicator test to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
For the standard IELTS test, we only accept the Academic test - either the standard or UKVI version - we do not accept the IELTS General test.
We will accept IELTS One Skill Retake if scores achieved meet our English language requirements.
We normally only accept the latest results of an English test.
Find the English band required for the course you wish to study.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the TOEFL iBT and TOEFL iBT Home Edition tests to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Pearson Test of English (PTE) Academic and Academic UKVI and Academic Online tests to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the College Board’s Advanced Placement test in English Language and Composition/English Literature and Composition to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Austrian Reifeprufung/Matura to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Bellerbys College Academic English Skills (AES) test to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Cambridge C1 Advanced (formerly known as Cambridge English: Advanced (CAE)) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Cambridge C2 Proficiency (formerly known as Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE)) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English module from Canada High School Qualifications to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below, provided the qualifications are delivered in Canada.
Band 5: A minimum mark of 75% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Band 4: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Band 3: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Band 2: A minimum mark of 65% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
Band 1: A minimum mark of 60% in the grade 12 English module from all provinces (except Quebec and New Brunswick).
From Quebec and New Brunswick, we can consider a mark of 60% in the grade 12 English module only if students can additionally demonstrate the whole High School Qualification was taught and examined in English (and also studied English in year 11).
Queen Mary University of London will consider the following English papers from the CIE iGCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Danish Almen Studentereksamen (STX), Højere Forberedelseseksamen (HF), Mekantil Studentereksamen (HHX), Teknisk Studentereksamen (HTX) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the English component of the Voorbereidend Wetenshappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the following English papers from the Edexcel iGCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the European Baccalaureate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Advanced Course of the Finnish Ylioppilastutkintotodistus (Matriculation Examination) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component from the upper secondary cycle of the French Baccalaureate General, known as Langue vivante A (Anglais) or Langue vivante B (Anglais) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the 'English Language and Literature' module that is taken as part of the French Baccalaureate International (BFI) from 2024 provided it is the British, American or Australian streams of this qualification to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Band 5: A minimum mark of 12 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Band 4: A minimum mark of 12 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Band 3: A minimum mark of 11 out of 20 in the English Language and Literature module
Queen Mary University of London will consider the 'English Language and Literature' module that is taken as part of the French Baccalaureate International Option (OIB) up to 2023 provided it is the British or American streams of this qualification to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE A-Level/AS-Level English Language, or English Literature, or English Language & Literature to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O Level English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O Level English Language from the Cambridge International exam board to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider both GCSE English Language and GCSE English Literature to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the German Abitur to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English core component of the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the CBSE and ISC Indian Standard XII examinations to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the International Baccalaureate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider Higher Level English component of the Irish Leaving Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Kaplan Test of English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Band 5: grade B in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Band 4: grade B in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Band 3: grade C in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) - English component
Queen Mary University of London will consider the LanguageCert Academic English test and LanguageCert Academic English SELT test to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the GCE O level 1119 English Language that appeared in the Malaysian SPM (Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia) and awarded in collaboration with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Mauritius CIE Higher School Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the NCUK English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the NCUK English for Academic Purposes (EAP) module to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the Vitnemål for videregaende opplaering (VVO) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the National University of Singapore High School Diploma to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the On Campus Test of English (OCTOE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Band 5: OCTOE minimum mark of 70% overall with 60% in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Band 4: OCTOE minimum mark of 65% overall with 60% in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Band 3: OCTOE minimum mark of 60% overall with 55% in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Band 2: OCTOE minimum mark of 55% overall with 55% in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Pearson Edexcel International GCSE to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London offers a range of pre-sessional English Language courses ,which provide excellent preparation for your future study.
See Pre-sessional English course requirements.
Further details on the application process can be found here.
Alternatively we will consider BALEAP accredited pre-sessional English language courses on a case by case basis.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the SQA Higher/Advanced Higher English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Singapore-Cambridge GCE O-Level English to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language module in Secondary 4 of the Singapore Integrated Programme to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English component of the South African National Senior Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the ‘English 7 subject’ of the Swedish Hogskoleforberedande Examen (Higher Education Preparatory Diploma) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
Validity period : This qualification should have been achieved no more than 5 years from the start date of your course**
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Trinity College London, Integrated Skills in English (ISE) to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below, provided the qualification is delivered in the USA.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the Grade 12 level English module from the US High School Graduation Diploma to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below, provided the qualification is delivered in the USA.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language component of the West African Senior School Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
"Important note: If you are a national of any country NOT listed on UKVI’s ‘Differential evidence requirement for a Student’ list, we can only accept from you an English test (or qualification) from our approved list that can be verified by us at Queen Mary directly at source on the test (or qualification) provider’s verification portal.
Queen Mary University of London will consider the English Language component of the West Indian Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate to satisfy our English language requirements, according to the English banding below.
* the validity period for this test will be extended to 5 years from the start date of the course for any of our programmes that are less than 6 months in duration (provided a Student visa is not required) or for our programmes delivered entirely by online study mode (excluding online delivered pre-sessional English courses)
** this qualification will not have a validity period for any of our programmes that are less than 6 months in duration (provided a Student visa is not required) or for our programmes delivered entirely by online study mode (excluding online delivered pre-sessional English courses)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/englishlanguagerequirements/presessional-english-requirements:
Queen Mary University of London offers a range of Pre-sessional English Language courses , which provide excellent preparation for your future study.
The entry requirements for our Pre-sessional courses are aligned to the English band for your main programme.
See table below which illustrates the requirements for the 5-week, 9-week, and 13 week Pre-sessional courses.
You can apply for the Pre-sessional programmes in your applicant portal once you have received your offer for your main programme.
Find out more about the application process for pre-sessional programmes.
Foundations Pre-sessional Programme
If your main programme is any of our Foundation Courses that allow entry to undergraduate programmes for example (including courses integrated with undergraduate programmes) or any of our Pre-Masters courses (including Masters integrated with Pre-Masters), then the only Pre-sessional course available to you will be the 9-week Foundations Pre-sessional programme .
The requirements for Foundations Pre-sessional course is the same as the standard 9-week Presessional course - see table below.
SELT requirement
For entry to Pre-sessional English programmes you will normally be required to present a UK government approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) which is also approved by Queen Mary as acceptable such as IELTS Academic UKVI or PTE Academic UKVI (unless you qualify for a joint CAS for the 5 and 9 week Pre-sessional courses).
Pre-sessional English programmes delivered Online
Pre-sessional English programmes delivered online have the same entry requirements as the standard on campus delivered Pre-sessional programmes, as listed in the table below.
However, for Pre-sessional programmes delivered entirely online you do not necessarily need to have SELT test (as you do for on campus Pre-sessional programmes), and therefore, we may be able to consider a wider range of English tests.
See some of the common non-SELT tests that we can consider benchmarked against the IELTS test.
Pre-sessional Entry Requirements table
The table below which illustrates the requirements for the 5-week, 9-week, and 13 week Pre-sessional courses in relation to the English bands.
Requirement for 5-week pre-sessional course
Requirements for 9-week Pre-sessional course & 9-week Foundations Pre-sessional course
Requirements for 13-week Pre-sessional course
Presessional requirements for programmes in Band 5 (IELTS 7.0 overall with 6.0 in each component)
IELTS Academic UKVI with 6.5 overall and 5.5 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 71 overall and 59 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 70 overall and 60 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 6.0 overall and 5.0 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 65 overall and 55 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 65 overall and 54 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 5.5 overall and 4.5 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 59 overall and 49 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 60 overall and 47 in each component
Presessional requirements for programmes in Band 4 (IELTS 6.5 overall with 6.0 in each component)
IELTS Academic UKVI with 6.0 overall and 5.5 in each component
PTE Academic UKVI with 65 overall and 59 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 65 overall and 60 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 5.5 overall and 5.0 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 59 overall and 55 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 60 overall and 54 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 5.0 overall and 4.5 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 55 overall and 49 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 54 overall and 47 in each component
Presessional requirements for programmes in Band 3 (IELTS 6.0 overall with 5.5 in each component)
IELTS Academic UKVI with 5.0 overall and 4.5 in each component
PTE Academic UKVI with 55 overall and 49 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 4.5 overall and 4.0 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 49 overall and 43 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 47 overall and 40 in each component
Presessional requirements for programmes in Band 2 (IELTS 5.5 overall with 5.5 in each component)
IELTS Academic UKVI with 5.0 overall and 5.0 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 55 overall and 55 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 54 overall and 54 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 4.5 overall and 4.5 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 49 overall and 49 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 47 overall and 47 in each component
IELTS Academic UKVI with 4.0 overall and 4.0 in each component PTE Academic UKVI with 43 overall and 43 in each component
LanguageCert Academic English SELT with 40 overall and 40 in each component
Presessional requirements for programmes in Band 1 (IELTS 5.0 overall with 5.0 in each component)
IELTS Academic UKVI with 4.5 overall and 4.5 in each component
PTE Academic UKVI with 49 overall and 49 in each component
For a more thorough list of English Language tests that we may be able to consider where a SELT is not required can be found on our Accepted English Language Tests and Qualifications page.
Please get in touch with the Admissions Office if you want advice on Pre-Sessional English entry requirements that is not covered here.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/events/meet-us-overseas:
Our overseas in-person events take place throughout the year, where you can come and meet us and get answers to your questions.
We list all upcoming events on this page, as well as information on what to expect.
27 Sept 2025
12:00 - 17:00 EST
18-20 Sept 2025
All day EST
21 Sept 2025
13:00 - 16:00 EST
Please check back to see when further dates are made available.
20 Sept 2025
10:00 - 17:00 CEST
Join us at the Elevate event to find out more about your study options at Queen Mary University of London.
Register here
14:00 - 18:00 TRT
Join us at the Education UK Days Fair to find out more about your study options at Queen Mary University of London.
Register for the event here - www.educationukdays.com
23 Sept 2025
15:00 - 19:00 TRT
13:00 - 18:00 TRT
28 Sept 2025
13:00 - 17:00 TRT
29 Sept 2025
08:30 - 10:00 WIB
11:30 - 12:20 WIB
13:30 - 15:00 WIB
30 Sept 2025
09:55 - 10:25 WIB
12:00 - 13:00 WIB
14:00 - 16:00 WIB
8 Sept 2025
13:45 - 15:25 MYT
16:30 - 18:00 MYT
9 Sept 2025
09:30 - 10:10 MYT
12:00 - 13:00 MYT
15:15 - 16:15 MYT
10 Sept 2025
12:40 - 15:40 MYT
11 Sept 2025
10:30 - 13:10 MYT
15:00 - 17:00 MYT
12 Sept 2025
14:00 - 15:00 MYT
6 Sept 2025
11:00 - 18:00 SST
23 Aug 2025
12:00 - 16:00 IST

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/events/meet-us-online:
We offer a comprehensive programme of online events throughout the year, where you can meet us and find out more about what Queen Mary is doing, and what it has to offer.
The School of Arts offers a range of free, interactive taster activities for secondary school and college students.
Watch the recording
As part of our pre-departure series, our friendly Advice and Counselling Advisory Team will talk about Student visa application process step by step.
Don’t miss out this opportunity to get the professional support from the Queen Mary team.
Being the only Russell Group university with a self-contained campus in central London, we are proud of the campus experience we have on offer.
Join our student ambassadors for a live tour around our Mile End library and meet with some of our library supporting staff members online!
Register to watch the recording
Join us for an exclusive webinar hosted by the Vice President of Queen Mary Students’ Union, designed especially for our offer holders.
Get a first-hand insight into the vibrant student experience at Queen Mary—learn about the wide range of clubs, societies, events, support services, and leadership opportunities available through the Students’ Union.
Whether you're into sports, culture, volunteering, or simply want to meet like-minded peers, this session will show you how to make the most of your time at Queen Mary, both inside and outside the classroom.
Don’t miss this chance to ask questions and start picturing your life as part of our dynamic student community!
Starting university in a new country can feel overwhelming — but you won’t be alone.
Join our expert panel of student support staff from Queen Mary University of London to discover the wide range of services available to help you thrive, both personally and academically.
In this session, representatives from wellbeing, residential life, disability and dyslexia support, mental health support will share how they support students and how you can access their services from day one.
Whether you're curious about mental health resources, building a social network, finding academic help, or adjusting to life in London, this is your chance to hear directly from the people who’ll be here to support you every step of the way.
Navigating university life is about more than just academics—it’s about seizing opportunities, gaining experience, and maintaining a healthy balance.
Join our panel of Queen Mary students and experts as they share insights on managing studies alongside part-time work, extracurricular activities, and personal wellbeing.
Whether you're looking for a job, exploring career development, or just trying to find the right balance, this session will provide practical tips and real-life experiences to help you make the most of your time at QMUL.
Event Date: 11 March 2025  *The live event has ended.
Ready to experience QMUL life?
Take a sneak peek inside our residences and see how our accommodation can help you settle in and thrive.
We'll show you the rooms and answer your questions!
Discover the unique opportunity to pursue a world-class medical education in the Mediterranean sun.
Our webinar will delve into the QMUL MBBS programme offered at the Malta campus, exploring its distinctive features, application process, and the incredible benefits of studying medicine in this idyllic location.
Learn why Malta is the perfect destination for aspiring doctors seeking a transformative educational experience.
What skills do employers really want—and how can you develop them during your studies?
Join us for an insightful session designed especially for prospective international students, as we explore the global labour market and the key skills that will set you apart.
You'll also hear how Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) supports your journey from classroom to career, with tailored careers advice, placement opportunities, and exclusive resources to help you stand out in a competitive job market.
Whether you're aiming for a graduate role in the UK or internationally, this webinar will help you start building your future with confidence.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/tuitionfees:
Like all universities in the UK, Queen Mary charges two different rates of tuition fees, known as the Home rate and the Overseas rate.
International students are generally charged the Overseas rate, which is higher, as no Government subsidy is given to universities for international students to help meet the cost of their education.
Find out how your tuition fee status is assessed .
The University will normally increase future university fees for continuing students by an amount defined each academic year, which will not usually exceed 10% of the previous year’s fee.
Tuition fees can be found on the ‘Fees and Funding’ tab of each of the programme pages as outlined below:
Queen Mary University of London, in common with all other UK institutions of higher education, is bound by legislation and regulations which embody the Government's policy on fees both for Home and Overseas students, including the provision that Home and European Union undergraduate students should contribute to the cost of their education through the payment of tuition fees.
Queen Mary will send an invoice for the full academic year from August each year.
Postgraduate Research students who start part-way through the academic year will be sent a pro-rata invoice.
Fees due in any academic year are payable before enrolment.
Payment can be made at any time during the year prior to enrolment.
If you do not pay the required amount of fees or provide proof of sponsorship, you will not be able to enrol.
Please note that after payment of your deposit, any subsequent payments of tuition fees will not be automatically reflected in the CAS.
Further advance payments have to be manually updated on the CAS and as such you should allow up to ten days for this to happen.
Please factor this in when applying for a visa appointment in your home country.
If you are concerned that your CAS has not been updated with an advance payment made by either you or your financial sponsor, please email: CAS-Admissions@qmul.ac.uk, clearly stating your full name, applicant ID, programme you have applied for, amount paid and the date of payment.
If you do wish to make an advance tuition fee payment we recommend you do this after you have secured your visa.
A CAS cannot be updated once the status has changed to 'Used'.
Once you have received your CAS, we recommend that you read more about how to apply for Tier 4 student immigration permission by referring to the following page.
https://www.welfare.qmul.ac.uk/student-advice-guides/applying-for-student-immigration-permission/
Experience campus life whether you want to live in halls, private housing, privately built student accommodation or elsewhere.
A range of confidential, specialist services to help students with financial, immigration and practical matters.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/tuitionfees/payment:
Click on the Pay my fees button for all available payment options including the new Transfermate and Flywire options.
Pay my fees
University Fee Regulations 2022/23 [PDF 3,687KB]
These regulations are updated every year, you can access a list of archived and present Tuition Fee Regulations here .
Paying your tuition fees - Queen Mary University of London
If you are a postgraduate student in receipt of the postgraduate or doctorial loan, you will need to provide the Fees Office with a copy of your Postgraduate Loan Summary letter.
If you are an international or postgraduate student, there is a £50 non-refundable charge for paying in instalments.
This charge does not apply to home fee paying undergraduate students.
To arrange a instalment plan please refer to the Instalment plan guidance page .
Students whose university fees are £10,000 or higher will receive a 1% discount if they pay their fees in full before enrolment.
The prompt payment discount applies to students who pay the overseas rate of fees on undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and Home students on postgraduate programmes and MBBS Malta.
It does not apply to Home fee paying undergraduate students and Channel Islands or Isle of Man students, where the fees are regulated by the UK government.
Students must deduct the 1% prompt payment discount when they make payment.
The deadline for claiming a refund is the 31st January each academic year for student starting in September and the 30th April for student starting in January
If you are eligible for a refund as per the University Fee Regulations, you may submit a refund request via MySIS under the ‘My Finance’ section.
In response to COVID-19, we have introduced additional flexibility to support postgraduate applicants applying to Queen Mary University of London in the 2021/22 academic year.
Please see our Refund Policy for deposit payments 2022-23 [PDF 275KB] for more information.
This policy applies to the 2022/23 academic year only and is in accordance with the University Fee Regulations .
Please note tuition fees are a student's responsibility.
If a student is not paying the fees, it is still their responsibility to inform the Fees Office of their sponsor's details.
If tuition fee payments are not made on time, the student will be classed as a Debtor and their registration with Queen Mary may be terminated.
If you fail to pay the required amount of tuition fees by the due dates for payment your registration as a student of QMUL could be terminated in accordance with Ordinance C3.
De-registration normally takes place in February.
If you are de-registered, you will not be able to take any QMUL examinations in this academic year.
If you are de-registered, it may be possible to be reinstated once the debt is cleared, however this is subject to an administrative charge (currently £250) and you will not be reinstated until at least 12 months after you have been de-registered.
Ordinance C3: Termination of registration of a student in debt [PDF 8KB]
If you need financial advice please see the Advice and Counselling information for international students about financial options during studies .
Please note the Advice and Counselling team will not be able to extend the tuition fee payment deadlines.
Queen Mary University of London bankers, Barclays plc, in common with other UK banks are subjected to a series of regulations surrounding international payments that originate directly or indirectly from a number of countries which are subjected to economic sanction.
These countries are
Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar (Burma), North or South Sudan, Syria and Venezuela.
Students must NOT make payment originating from these countries without the University’s approval.
This can be obtained by contacting Hardeep Gill h.k.gill@qmul.ac.uk .
You must ensure that any payments from sponsors to the University are only for amounts due to the University.
Any monies due to you from the sponsor must be made directly to you.
Should you be in any doubt about whether a payment falls into this category, or wish to discuss this further, please contact Hardeep Gill, h.k.gill@qmul.ac.uk for further information.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/tuitionfees/deposits:
All international direct applicants (Foundation, Pre-Masters and Postgraduate programmes) will be required to pay a non-refundable tuition fee deposit to obtain a CAS to apply for their student visa.
Some postgraduate taught programmes require a deposit at conditional stage in order to secure your place.
This applies to both Home and International applicants.
Further details on the Conditional Deposit Scheme can be found below.
Pay my deposit
If the Tuition Fee Calculator advises that you will need to pay a conditional deposit, this means that if you receive a conditional offer, you will be invited to pay a non-refundable deposit to secure your place.
Your offer communication will provide details about accepting your offer and paying the deposit.
The conditional deposit is not required for programmes beginning in January.
You can find further information about the conditional deposit scheme in the FAQs .
For September 2025 entry, the deadline to pay your conditional deposit can be found below:
Applicants who do not pay the deposit by the specified deadline in their offer letter will be declined by default.
If the Tuition Fee Calculator advises that you will need to pay a unconditional deposit, this means that if you receive a unconditional offer (or when you have met the conditions of your conditional offer), you will be invited to pay a non-refundable deposit to secure your place.
Please note all overseas students who require a student route visa must pay a £2000 deposit in order to receive their Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies ( CAS).
Applicants will be encouraged to pay their deposit within 6 weeks of their offer.
Please be aware that not paying the deposit may affect your ability to receive a CAS or your ability to complete enrolment.
The following programme requires a £2000 deposit.
The following programmes require a £1000 deposit.
The following programme requires a 3000 Euros deposit.
The following programme requires a £1000 deposit.
The deadline to pay your tuition fee deposit will be outlined in your offer letter and on the applicant portal.
You can make payment either by credit card or by direct bank transfer.
To pay by credit card, please follow these instructions:
For details to pay by direct bank transfer, please visit our payment methods webpage.
If you are in receipt of a scholarship or your fees will be paid by a sponsor, you may be exempt from the university fee deposit.
We do however require a formal letter from your sponsor confirming the arrangement.
Please upload evidence of your sponsorship/scholarship to the portal before the required deadline.
If you are planning to fund your studies using a UK postgraduate loan, we may waive the deposit, as long as you provide us with evidence of the loan award.
Yes, all overseas students who require a student route visa will be required to pay a £2000 deposit to receive their confirmation of acceptance for studies(CAS).
Students requiring an overseas visa will require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number before they can apply for a Student visa.
You must pay your deposit before the CAS process can begin.
Please note that after payment of your deposit, any subsequent payments of university fees will not be automatically reflected in the CAS.
If you are concerned that your CAS has not been updated with an advance payment made by either you or your financial sponsor, please email: CAS-Admissions@qmul.ac.uk , clearly stating your full name, applicant ID, programme you have applied for, amount paid and the date of payment.
If you do wish to make an advance university fee payment we recommend you do this after you have secured your visa.
Once you have received your CAS, we recommend that you read more about how to apply for student immigration permission by referring to the following pages of the Advice and Counselling website.
The fee deposit is non-refundable and non-transferable.
Please see our Refund Policy for deposit payment 2022-23 [PDF 278KB] for more information.
This Refund Policy is in accordance with the University Fee Regulations .
By accepting an offer of a place or enrolling on a programme, students agree to the terms of the University Fee Regulations.
Details of the terms regarding fee deposits can be found in the University Fee Regulations, including special circumstances when a deposit may be refunded.
University Fee Regulations 2024/25 [PDF 440KB]
For current applicants and offer holders, please send a message through the applicant portal .
For prospective applicants and enquiries, please see contact information for the Admissions team.
If you have any queries about fee payments, please raise an enquiry on AskQM .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/pathway-programmes:
All Foundation and Pre-Masters programmes are taught on our unique campus in East London, home to students from 162 nationalities from around the world.
During your programme, you will have full access to all student facilities, including welfare, library, social and sport.
As a member of the University Pathway Alliance, our programmes are also widely respected and accepted by other top UK institutions.
For further details about our pathways, including entry requirements, degree progression and more, please follow the links below:
Chat to us about your Foundation or Pre-Masters application
*based on a survey of UK students only (DHLE)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/pathway-programmes/pmp:
The Pre-Masters programmes offer bespoke preparation for Masters level study at Queen Mary University of London and other prestigious UK institutions.
Our subject-specific pathways provide academic and English language preparation for International and EU students looking to progress to postgraduate study.
The programme is fully integrated with Queen Mary University of London, which is part of both the University of London and the Russell Group, with all teaching being provided by Queen Mary academics at our Mile End campus.
Suitable for students who wish to change academic direction, or who have not met the criteria for direct entry onto your chosen Masters programme, our pathways will help you to deepen your knowledge in your chosen subject area and improve your academic and English skills.
When you successfully complete the Pre-Masters programme, you will progress onto one of more than 30 Masters degrees.
Find out more about our pathways below:
2021-24
We accept a wide-range of qualifications for entry onto the Pre-Masters Programme.
The grades you need to enter the will vary depending on what qualifications you have completed, and the pathway you wish to study.
Students will also need to meet minimum English language requirements.
One of the benefits of the International Pre-Masters programme is that you will receive teaching from award winning Queen Mary academics.
You will attend classes for up to 20 hours per week: 12 hours of English Language and Study Skills and personal tutorials, and up to 8 hours of academic subjects.
You will also be expected to undertake independent study.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (portfolios, individual and group presentations, written assignments, in-class tests, research projects and seminars) and/or examinations in May or J uly.
Your English Language and Academic Study Skills classes will be delivered by the multiple award-winning School of Languages, Linguistics and Film, who were recognised in 2019 with the Queen Mary Educational Excellence Award and Principals Award for their teaching excellence.
To progress onto Masters programmes at Queen Mary you will need to achieve minimum grades in individual modules.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/pathway-programmes/other-pathways:
In addition to our in-house foundation and Pre-Masters programmes, we also work in close partnership with external providers to offer you alternative pathways to study at Queen Mary University of London.
You can gain entry to undergraduate or postgraduate degrees at Queen Mary via pathway programmes taught at Kaplan International College London.
Delivered by Kaplan at their London Bridge College, these programmes offer guaranteed progression onto a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at Queen Mary University of London, subject to successful completion and achieving the required progression grades, with good attendance.
For further details about study at KIC London, including entry requirements and progression degree s available can be found here
NCUK is a consortium of leading universities dedicated to giving international students guaranteed access to universities and helping students succeed when they get there.
NCUK offers foundation and graduate pathway programmes, which are taught and quality assured by its global network of Study Centres around the world, with more than 100 Study Centres in more than 36 countries.
If you pass your NCUK Qualification , you are guaranteed a place at an NCUK Partner University.
Find out more about the NCUK guarantee here .
All NCUK qualifications include unique language and study skills preparation modules, English for Academic Purposes (EAP).
These modules will equip you with the skills you need to succeed in your studies at a UK university.
To find out more information about NCUK and how they can help you, visit their website: www.ncuk.ac.uk
Queen Mary also recognises the OnCampus London Foundation and Pre-Masters qualifications onto a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
The OnCampus study centre is located at Birkbeck, in the heart of the University of London.
Subject to achieving the necessary grades, students who successfully complete the OnCampus programmes can be considered onto a range of degree programmes at Queen Mary University of London.
To find out more information about OnCampus and how they can help you, visit their website
We also consider applications from students who have taken a wide-range of other international foundation programmes, including those studied with:
For further information, including entry requirements, please contact foundationprogrammes@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/international-students/meet-the-team:
Director of Global Engagement l.wildman@qmul.ac.uk
Head of International Student Recruitment j.w.duffin@qmul.ac.uk
Deputy Head of International Student Recruitment jenny.zhou@qmul.ac.uk
Deputy Head of International Student Recruitment j.bual@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Manager Africa and Latin America (away)
Regional Manager Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar and International students within the UK r.duncan@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Manager Europe, CIS and Turkey d.a.banks@qmul.ac.uk
International Pathway Recruitment Manager shaoying.lu@qmul.ac.uk
GEO Administrator j.chan@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Head (East Asia) Mainland China, Mongolia, Macao and Taiwan ying.wang@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Recruitment Manager Mainland China and Mongolia eva.guo@qmul.ac.uk
International Officer Mainland China gloria.wen@qmul.ac.uk
International Marketing Officer Mainland China tianyi.wang@qmul.ac.uk
Regional Manager Hong Kong, Taiwan, Macau and South China v.lo@qmul.ac.uk
Principal Advisor - South Asia (Based at UKIBC ) Contact Jaspreet
Regional Manager Pakistan n.vehra@qmul.ac.uk +92 (0)42 3570 7786

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study:
Learn more about Queen Mary's Undergraduate programmes.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/study/explore-our-campuses:
Our main campuses are at Mile End and Whitechapel.
Mile End is home to most of our humanities, social science and science and engineering students.
Medicine and dentistry students are largely based at Whitechapel and Charterhouse Square, with some teaching at our West Smithfield and Mile End campuses.
Lincoln’s Inn Fields is the base for postgraduate law students taught at the Centre for Commercial Law Studies.
We also have international campuses in Paris , Malta , and China.
See first-hand what life is like living and studying at the only campus-based Russell Group University in London!
To navigate between the 360° tours on each page, you can use the contents menu to the left of the tour window, or use the arrow keys located at the top.
You can then navigate around your 360° view by clicking-and-dragging or by using the compass in the upper right corner.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/arts:
The School of the Arts (STA) offers our students the space to explore, the support they need to grow and the skills they need to succeed in their chosen careers.
From Drama to Film, from English to Comparative Literatures, from Linguistics to Languages and from Creative Writing to Liberal Arts our degree programmes incorporate critical thinking and practice-based learning and develop graduates who progress into an exciting range of professions from the creative industries to digital media and communications, from work in the culture and arts sectors to working abroad with languages and intercultural understanding.
Our multilingual and multicultural community of educators and researchers brings together brilliant minds from across the world, who combine research excellence with an unrivalled commitment to social justice and social mobility.
We rank in the top 100 worldwide for Arts and Humanities (QS World Ranking by Subject 2024).
Comparative Literature and Culture
Drama
English
Film
Language Centre
Linguistics
Modern Languages and Culture
Discover our free Taster Activities
Discover School of the Arts Masters Programmes for 2025 entry

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sed/english:
Graduate Simran talks us through her experience of English at Queen Mary, from exploring London on field trips to the career skills she learnt along the way.
League table success: Drama #2, Creative Writing #6 and English #25 in The Times Good University Guide 2022
Register for personalised updates
QMUL English ranked first in the country for Research Intensity in REF2014

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sed/drama:
Through a balance of practice and theory, our students learn from and collaborate with our team of high-profile practitioners, historians and theorists.
Across our degree programmes, students explore a distinctively wide range of performance forms: from plays to experimental theatre, and live art to applied theatre and activism.
We embed a commitment to social justice in everything we do.
Lucy talks about the special Queen Mary Drama community, making friends and how the course helped her towards her MA Broadcast Journalist.
She also talks about her highlights of being part of Queen Mary Theatre Company and QM Angels Cheerleading Society.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sllf/comparative-literature-and-culture:
Comparative Literature is a well-established, demanding and exciting subject which allows you to study literature written in languages from across the world, and to explore literature in conjunction with other cultural and artistic production (film, music, painting, philosophy).
It's all about expanding your literary and cultural horizons.
Hear Nargis talk about why she chose to study Comparative Literature here at Queen Mary.
Liberal Arts gives you the space to explore exciting and diverse subjects.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sllf/film-studies:
THINK critically, CREATE boldly.
At Queen Mary, MAKE and PRODUCE your own films, WRITE compelling stories and rigorous analysis, EXPLORE global screens, DISCUSS ideas, and SHOWCASE your work.
In a rapidly changing world, media literacy matters more than ever.
Understanding the complexity of the moving image, its creation, its dissemination, and its reception empowers you to tackle the world you live in.
Film in all its iterations responds to real issues in our cultures and societies while engaging and entertaining audiences across the globe.
At Queen Mary, you'll THINK critically about film's history, philosophy, and global impact.
You’ll CREATE and CURATE your own cinematic visions, learning every aspect of filmmaking.
We'll empower you to MAKE compelling short fiction films, documentaries, and experimental pieces; PRODUCE your projects from script to screen; WRITE insightful analyses and screenplays; EXPLORE diverse film cultures and movements; DISCUSS your ideas with passionate peers, leading academics and filmmakers.
This isn't just about watching films, it's about SHAPING the future of film.
It’s about providing you with a resilience through knowledge and understanding, equipping you with the hard tools and soft skills to confront an ever-changing career landscape.
In the vibrant heart of the East London, location of countless films, you’ll have access to high-end film equipment, film resources and B LOC , a state-of-the-art cinema and exhibition space.
Joining a dynamic cohort and a dedicated team of lecturers and practitioners, we'll help you grow professionally and personally by creating a supportive learning environment.
We will support you to make the most of on and off-campus events, like filmmaking bootcamps, career sessions, and film festivals.
We are in the top ten universities for Film in the UK .
The Research Excellent Framework (REF) is the UK’s number one metric for university research successes and achievements.
The Film department’s research and film practice output was ranked first in the last submission in 2021.
More info here.
Staff Work
Student Journeys

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sllf/language-centre:
The Language Centre aims to develop students’ academic and professional literacies to help them become high-achieving graduates equipped with cutting edge communication skills for employment in a global world.
We offer programmes and courses in academic and professional literacies, modern languages and applied linguistics to enhance your academic success and prepare you for employability in the global workplace.
Our Foundations, Pre-Masters and Pre-Sessional programmes prepare you for success in undergraduate and postgraduate study; our In-Sessional courses enable you to sharpen your academic language skills, while our Languages courses give you the opportunity to learn additional languages to increase your employability and social mobility in a global world.
Research at the Language Centre covers a range of applied linguistics areas.
Particular research strengths include institutional communication, multimodality, the relationships between politics, language and culture and electronic communication.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sllf/linguistics:
We are ranked 1st English Language programme provider in the UK for 'Teaching on my course' (NSS 2023) and 1st Linguistics department for Research Outputs (REF 2021)
Follow us on X Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Bluesky

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sllf/modern-languages-and-cultures:
The Department of Modern Languages and Cultures brings together a community of highly-regarded and innovative researchers and teachers.
Our work spans a wide range of fields, and enables our students to explore distinctive subjects in a highly supportive learning environment.
Do you love learning languages and studying other cultures?

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sbm:
Are you ready to make a difference?
At the School of Business and Management, you'll gain the skills, insights, and global perspective to lead with purpose and drive change where it matters most.
Our programmes teach you to think beyond textbooks, management fads and memorised formulas for success – where the focus is on social justice, sustainability, and good governance to create tomorrow’s responsible leaders.
We are proud to be an AACSB-accredited business school and the most inclusive University in the prestigious Russell Group.
Our School is home to five specialised departments - Accounting and Financial Management , Business Analytics and Applied Economics , Business and Society , Marketing , and People and Organisations , - that drive forward impactful research and responsible management education with a global perspective.
Join us—and start building a future you can be proud of.
What role do our alumni play in championing these values?
QS World University Rankings 2025
for Marketing (Complete University Guide 2025)
for Accounting and Finance (Complete University Guide 2025)
Visit us on campus at one of our Open Days and stay updated on the latest student, staff, and research events at the School of Business and Management.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/sef:
8 October - External seminars Lucas Siga (Essex)
22 October - External seminars Gilat Levy (LSE)
23 October - External seminars Damian Clarke (University of Exeter)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/geog:
Our inclusive learning community brings together a diverse staff and student body to study, research and collaborate, exploring global challenges from climate change to  development and inequality.
Professor Alex Henshaw
Graduate Outcome Survey (2025)
Research Excellence Framework (2021)
At Queen Mary, our mission is to create an inclusive environment where we support talented students regardless of background or personal experience.
We'd love to hear from you.
Department of Geography and Environmental Science, Queen Mary University of London, Geography Building, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, UK.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/history:
We offer a huge range of modules from the medieval to the present day, encompassing different geographical regions and a wide variety of themes and approaches.
Professor Emma Griffin, Head of Department
(National Student Survey 2025)
(Complete University Guide League table 2025)
Department of History, Queen Mary University of London, Arts Two, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, UK.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/law:
Looking to become a solicitor in England and Wales?
Gain a specialist LLM whilst preparing for the SQE on our unique integrated course.
Expert legal training for practitioners, leaders, and organisations.
Find out about our upcoming lectures, conferences, workshops and seminars.
View the profiles of our academics and PhD students and learn about their work.
Centre for Commercial Law Studies

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/ccls:
Those who are keen to learn about cutting-edge areas of the law with a blend of practice and academia should attend CCLS.
Shyikh Mahdi
The Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS) offers postgraduate law programmes and professional legal training in a wide range of subjects.
These are delivered by our passionate academics who are leading experts in their field.
Gain a specialist LLM whilst preparing for the SQE on our integrated course.
Join us as we celebrate 45 years of the Centre for Commercial Law Studies.
Join our alumni network to get access to exclusive events and benefits.
Find out about the various ways you can support CCLS and our students.
School of Law

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/politics:
We bring together research, policy-making and public debate to deepen and challenge our understanding of the world around us.
Professor Martin Coward
(QS University Rankings by Subject 2025)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/eecs:
Check out our labs in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science.
Check out how you can continue your journey with us.
2025 AES International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Audio 8 September 2025

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/maths:
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Join us on Saturday 4 October 2025, from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm (BST) at our Mile End campus to discover what it is like to study at Queen Mary’s School of Mathematical Sciences.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/spcs:
Join us on Saturday 4 October 2025, from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm (BST) at our Mile End campus to discover what it is like to study at Queen Mary’s School of Physical and Chemical Sciences.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/fmd:
Institutes that make up Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry
Information for our current staff Medicine and Dentistry
We are a member of the Russell Group of leading UK universities

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/bci:
Barts Cancer Institute (BCI) is part of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry and one of the top five cancer research centres in the UK.
Our overriding objective is to ensure that our research – which aims to identify ways to prevent cancer and develop better diagnostic techniques and treatments – is relevant to and will impact on cancer patients.
Together with University College London (UCL), King's College London (KCL) and the Francis Crick Institute, the BCI is a key partner in the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) City of London Centre , a world-leading hub dedicated to cancer biotherapeutics .
Find out more below on our CRUK Barts Centre webpages.
Our vitality depends on nurturing the new generation of scientists who will continue to make an impact on cancer research.
As such, we offer a spectrum of training opportunities, from placements for undergraduate students, to postgraduate taught and research programmes.
Find out more on our study with us pages.
for subject rankings as part of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, according to the Complete University Guide 2021
in the Cancer Research UK City of London Centre, a world-class hub dedicated to cancer biotherapeutics
for research citations (citations per paper) as part of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, according to the QS World Rankings 2021
Queen Mary researchers have discovered a blood test that accurately detects the presence of aggressive prostate cancer - the most common cancer in Western men.
There are currently no events scheduled.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/blizard:
Blizard Institute, The Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, The Blizard Building, 4 Newark Street, London E1 2AT, UK.
+44 (0)20 7882 2483 blizard@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/dentistry:
New Healthcare Leadership Foundations online course 11 December, 2024
TactiTooth Website is Now Live: Free Resources for Dental Schools 24 October, 2024
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery (OMFS) Trauma Group holds its Inaugural Away Day and Conference 25 April, 2024

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/ihse:
Our Institute is focused primarily on medical education.
Our academic staff are leaders in curriculum design, delivery and assessment throughout the five year and accelerated graduate-entry programme medical degrees.
Cutting edge clinical skills teaching
World class facilities
1st in London for Medicine
We offer opportunities to study at undergraduate, postgraduate and research level, taught by leading academics in world-class facilities.
Find out about IHSE staff including academic and support staff.
News and events at the IHSE
Our institute is based across multiple sites in Whitechapel, Mile End and West Smithfield.
How to contact us.
Find out more about Equality and Diversity work at the School of Medicine and Dentistry

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/whri:
William Harvey Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/wiph:
Wolfson Institute of Population Health

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/centre-creative-collaboration:
We sustain long term partnerships and collaborations across e ast London – and the globe – enabling an exchange of knowledge and ideas between people who create arts and culture, people running cultural organisations and people working on research projects across science, medicine and the humanities .
Sign up to our newsletter for monthly updates from the Centre and our partners across Queen Mary and the creative sectors.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/deri:
Queen Mary's Digital Environment Research Institute (DERI) brings together world-leading researchers to drive new multi-disciplinary data science research and create innovative applications using digital technologies.
Each year the Institute produces a report to celebrate our successes and reflect on our accomplishments.
Find out more about our achievements in our annual report.
Presented by Prof Venet Osmani, Professor of Clinical AI and Machine Learning at DERI.
" From code to bedside: A journey towards realising Generalist Clinical AI".
Bringing together researchers from across the AI and Data Science remit to deliver impactful and translational research.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/gpi:
Our mission is to be a leader in global research and policy solutions, upholding Queen Mary’s commitment to positive social change, community participation and diversity of views.
Queen Mary is sending a team of experts to COP28 – who will be speaking and attending events and showcasing their unique research to influence policy on a range of topics.
This is a perfect opportunity for Queen Mary students who are looking to gain experience in policy, research, communications and other similar fields of work.
We have lots of videos about our work and from our events for you to watch!
We aim to be a leader in policy and transdisciplinary research worldwide.
Our multidisciplinary work is grouped across four Strategic Pathways.
Find out more about the latest news and events from the Institute.
Browse our latest publications from Queen Mary researchers and our Fellows.
We bring together top thinking and research to tackle global challenges.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/phuri:
Telephone: 07918493014 Email: phuri@qmul.ac.uk
Telephone: 07918493014
Email: phuri@qmul.ac.uk
Join our mailing list Follow us: LinkedIn @phuri
Join our mailing list
Follow us: LinkedIn @phuri
omicscience.org

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics:
To apply you’ll need to:
Have further questions?
How to apply | Entry requirements
Finances for studying abroad on exchange
Economics is all about untangling how the world works – and how to make it a better place.
Are you curious about worldwide current affairs – climate change, inequality, struggling healthcare system, and the ageing population?
Join us to use economic insights to create solutions that support communities worldwide.
Our degree aligns with what you experience in the real world.
.
Explore everything from inflation and unemployment to the behaviour and motivations of individuals and companies.
You ’ ll learn from a dynamic teaching team that actively shapes policies and influences public debate through cutting-edge research.
Situated close to London’s bustling financial hubs – the City and Canary Wharf – we regularly welcome guest lecturers to our campus to discuss contemporary subjects like digital currencies, payment trends, and beyond, sharing expertise and insights.
This degree offers professional training in economics, providing an excellent basis for employment in the private or state sector or for further academic study.
We ’ ll help you master the quantitative techniques you need to investigate relationships between economic variables.
Throughout your studies, you’ll have access to our Bloomberg trading room.
Here you ’ ll use the same economic and financial data used by practitioners in industry.
You can complete your Economics degree in three, four or five years.
If you choose to spend a year studying abroad or a year in industry, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
If you are taking an integrated foundation year, this will take place before Year 1.
Disclaimer The programme structure shown is for prospective/new students and may vary for existing students.
Please note that all modules are subject to change.
Two elective modules to be chosen from all level 5 SEF modules.
Elective modules offered may vary from year to year.
Examples of elective modules are:
Students must choose at least four modules (60 credits) from a list of level 6 economics modules.
Up to two modules (30 credits) may instead be chosen from any other degree programme offered by Queen Mary (subject to availability).
Students may also choose one module (15 credits) at level 5.
Apply for this degree with any of the following options.
Take care to use the correct UCAS code - it may not be possible to change your selection later.
International students can apply for our Economics BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
The foundation year, taught on campus by Queen Mary lecturers, prepares you for the rest of the programme and can be started in either September or January.
Develop your business skills and spend a year on placement – apply for our Year in Industry option.
You'll put your understanding of economics into practice in a real-world environment, gaining invaluable experience for your future career.
Find out more.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics BSc with a Year Abroad.
Queen Mary has links with universities in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia (partnerships vary for each degree programme).
Find out more about study abroad opportunities at Queen Mary and what the progression requirements are.
The standard of teaching is high, which allows us to be stretched academically, but at the same time the lecturers are incredibly helpful and supportive.
You will receive approximately three hours of weekly contact time per module, in the form of lectures led by academic staff and smaller classes.
For every hour spent in class, you’ll complete a further two to three hours of independent study.
Student Support at the School of Economics and Finance
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (presentations, assignments, essay report writing, in-class tests, research and project work) and/or examinations in January and May.
You will study Economics and Finance in one of Queen Mary’s newest buildings – the Graduate Centre which opened in 2017.
The £39m building was built with energy efficiency in mind, and provides access to the latest banking and finance industry software used by economists in finance or government.
The School offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Our designated computer labs that have a wide range of industry packages including Eviews, Maple, Mathematica, Matlab and Stata.
You can access economic and financial data through platforms including Macrobond, Wharton Research Data Services and The Economist, and get free access to popular industry publications.
The building itself has a Harvard-style lecture theatre and a number of spacious seminar rooms to facilitate your learning experience.
The ground-floor Café Grad serves Starbucks Coffee, as well as a tasty selection of sandwiches, salads and cakes.
As an Economics and Finance student, you will also have full access to the university’s academic and pastoral support.
You will be assigned an academic adviser who will guide and support you throughout your studies at Queen Mary.
Alternative offers may be made to applicants taking the Extended Project Qualification.
For further information please visit: qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/entry/epq
Our standard contextual offer: ABB with A in Maths at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB with A in Maths at A-Level.
More information on our contextual offer criteria can be found on our contextualised admissions page .
Please note that General Studies and Critical Thinking are excluded from any A-Level offer and cannot be considered.
Academic requirements
This programme combines a three-year degree with a bespoke foundation year, providing you with a smooth pathway as an international or EU student whose prior education or English language proficiency does not enable you to apply directly for a three-year degree.
This programme is designed for students who have completed a good high school education that consists of at least 12 years study.
For full country specific entry requirements and qualification equivalencies visit: qmul.ac.uk/international/countries
If you have taken both GCSE and A level exams (or equivalent qualifications) in the UK you will not be considered for admission to this programme.
In such cases we recommend that you apply for the relevant three year programme with entry in year 1.
English language requirements
Discover more about the English Language requirements for this course.
We accept a wide range of European and international qualifications in addition to A-levels, the International Baccalaureate and BTEC qualifications.
See the School of Economics and Finance entry requirements for detailed information by country.
Find out more about our English language entry requirements, including the types of test we accept and the scores needed for entry to the programme.
You may also be able to meet the English language requirement for your programme by joining a summer pre-sessional programme before starting your degree.
See our general undergraduate entry requirements .
UK students accepted onto this course are eligible to apply for tuition fee and maintenance loans from Student Finance England or other government bodies.
Please note that UK students accepted onto Integrated Foundation courses starting in January are not eligible for student loans from Student Finance England.
Queen Mary offers a generous package of scholarships and bursaries, which currently benefits around 50 per cent of our undergraduates.
Scholarships are available for home, EU and international students.
Specific funding is also available for students from the local area.
International students may be eligible for a fee reduction.
We offer means-tested funding, as well as subject-specific funding for many degrees.
Find out what scholarships and bursaries are available to you.
We offer specialist support on all financial and welfare issues through our Advice and Counselling Service , which you can access as soon as you have applied for a place at Queen Mary.
Take a look at our Student Advice Guides which cover ways to finance your degree, including:
Our graduates go on to a wide range of careers within large financial companies, professional services firms and high-profile public sector organisations.
Not sure what you want to do next?
We run workshops to help you explore career options in consulting, government, investment banking, insurance and trading.
Together with optional modules in specialised areas, you ’ ll refine your knowledge and define your ambitions.
Recent Economics graduates have been hired by:
The School of Economics and Finance runs weekly careers workshops and events.
Our annual 'Focus on Economics' and 'Focus on Finance' programmes offer exclusive workshops which will give you a thorough understanding of careers in consulting, government, investment banking, insurance, trading and more.
We arrange a number of work experience opportunities and organise a competitive Careers Taster Scheme giving students opportunities to visit a range of employers – which in the past has included Barclays, Lloyds of London and KPMG.
The Queen Mary careers team can offer:
Learn more about career support and development at Queen Mary.
Economics - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics with Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
The Discover Uni dataset (formerly Unistats)
The School of Economics and Finance at Queen Mary is ranked in the top 100 for Economics & Econometrics in the 2025 QS World University Rankings.
As one of London’s top Schools of Economics and Finance, we provide a solid foundation in economic and financial theory and practice, driven by research-led teaching from experts in the field, ensuring that not only will you be studying at the cutting edge of these disciplines, but also across a wide range of extracurricular school activities to enhance your learning experience.
Our faculty members are recognised experts in their fields, who impact on policy making and public debate.
The breadth and depth of our expertise allows us to offer courses in all major areas of economics and finance, and you'll be at the heart of the latest thinking and cutting-edge research.
Each year we run a varied programme of lectures and talks by guest speakers, attracting big names from the worlds of economics, business and politics.
We also support two societies where you can meet others with a shared interest in economics, finance and investment.
Our proximity to the City and Canary Wharf gives us strong industry links.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 7355

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/international-science-and-engineering-foundation-programme:
Get the skills and experience you need to study an undergraduate degree in science or engineering.
This one-year foundation programme offers international students – who may not have had the chance to study A-level-equivalent qualifications – the chance to achieve the right academic level, as well as English language and academic skills, to study an undergraduate degree.
Our foundation year offers a pathway to a range of undergraduate degrees in science (biology, chemistry, mathematics, physics, neuroscience and psychology) and engineering (aerospace, electronic, mechanical and sustainable energy).
You are guaranteed a place on an undergraduate programme at Queen Mary if you pass the foundation year with the required grades.
As a foundation student you’ll have full access to all student facilities, including welfare, library, social and sport.
You’ll be taught on our Mile End campus by experienced university staff who also teach on undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
We use a mixture of teaching styles – lectures, tutorials, classroom activities and laboratory work.
A typical weekly workload is six to eight lectures and four to five hours of practical laboratories or workshops.
Outside of classes, you’ll need to spend 20–25 hours per week preparing, writing and reading.
Each module is assessed by written examinations (typically 70% of the final mark) and coursework (practical reports, essays, problem sheets, online exercises and tests).
You will have access to excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
The International Science and Engineering Foundation programme (ISEFP) accepts applicants with a wide range of different qualifications.
The grades you need to enter the course will vary depending on the qualification you have completed.
For country-specific details, please refer to our detailed entry requirements .
You will need to provide the following documentation as part of your application:
When you apply for the ISEFP you will choose a degree that you plan to study after completing the foundation year.
On successfully completing the ISEFP, and subject to meeting the progression requirements, you are guaranteed a place on your chosen degree programme at Queen Mary.
All ISEFP applicants will be required to provide a valid UKVI Academic IELTS test score with a minimum of 5.0 in all sections.
Please visit International Admissions for full details.
You are guaranteed a place on a science or engineering undergraduate degree at Queen Mary subject to successfully completing the foundation year and meeting the progression requirements.
You will receive a high level of academic and pastoral support on this programme.
Your personal tutor can help you with any personal or academic issues and advise you on your degree choices after the foundation year.
The Queen Mary careers team can also offer:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-and-finance:
Economics and finance are complex, fast-paced, and exciting.
This course is for ambitious minds who want to get immersed.
Economics and Finance are at the heart of what we see on the news, whether that’s the impact of financial markets, soaring interest rates or challenges around global trade.
Studying with us, you’ll look at the economy as a whole, but you’ll analyse the behaviour and motivations of individuals and companies too.
You’ll be immersed in industry from day one.
Our academics will share how their research is informing policy and public debate.
Step off campus and you’ll be near London’s financial centres, the City and Canary Wharf.
We’re also connected to leaders within the Bank of England, HM Treasury, and other financial institutions and professional bodies.
You can also register for the Investment Management Certificate exam to achieve an additional professional qualification highly valued by employers.
You’ll have access to real-life data with our Bloomberg trading terminals.
You’ll also use an Interactive Brokers Trader Workstation (TWS) and FXCM FX Trading Station to analyse real-time financial market data and the relationships between economic variables.
You can complete your Economics and Finance degree in three, four or five years.
If you choose to spend a year in industry or study abroad, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
International students can apply for our Economics and Finance BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Develop your business skills and spend a year on placement – apply for our Economics and Finance BSc with a Year in Industry.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics and Finance BSc with a Year Abroad.
You can do either a year in industry or a year abroad - you cannot combine these options.
You will receive approximately three hours of weekly contact time per module, comprising lectures led by academic staff and smaller classes.
Your success story in this sector starts here.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready for roles in everything from financial analysis to policy-making, consulting to technology management.If a career in economics, banking or finance is your calling, this programme will provide you with an impressive entry route – in addition to opening up pathways for postgraduate studies.
Recent Economics and Finance graduates have been hired by:
Economics and Finance - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Finance with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Finance with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Finance with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Finance with a Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Finance with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-statistics-and-mathematics:
Combine expertise in economics and advanced mathematical techniques to find solutions to real-world situations.
Fascinated by data?
Interested in what’s going on in the world around you?
This degree combines economics, statistics, and mathematics to prepare you for roles where you’ll apply quantitative techniques to real-world challenges.
The programme is jointly delivered by the School of Economics and Finance and the School of Mathematical Science, so you’ll learn from experts across both fields.
Many of our teaching staff also have practical experience and work closely with industry organisations including HM Treasury, the Debt Management Office, and the Bank of England.
Kick off your studies by exploring key areas in each subject, like macroeconomics and quantitative analysis.
Then zone in on statistical methods, modelling and econometrics.
With our extensive choice of optional modules, you can also explore hot topics in the sector such as cryptography, generative AI, or big data.
As well as theory, you’ll perfect your practical skills in our Bloomberg trading room.
Here you’ll use the same kit used by industry practitioners.
All of the skills you learn will be invaluable, whatever field of economics you decide to work in
You can complete your Economics, Statistics and Mathematics degree in three, four or five years.
If you choose to spend a year studying abroad or take a year in industry, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Two elective modules to be chosen from all level 5 SEF or Maths modules.
Examples of SEF elective modules are:
Examples of Maths elective modules are:
Personal and Career Development Plan 3
Students must choose at least three modules (45 credits) from a list of level 6 Maths modules.
International students can apply for our Economics, Statistics and Mathematics BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics, Statistics and Mathematics BSc with a Year Abroad.
You will receive approximately three hours of weekly contact time per module, comprising lectures led by academic staff and smaller seminar groups.
The School of Mathematical Sciences invested approximately £18m in a transformative project to create an inspiring, collaborative space for staff and students.
The new Mathematical Sciences building features:
The Graduate Centre, Home to the School of Economics and Finance
This programme will prepare you for a career involving quantitative methods in economics.
It provides an entry route for both private and public sectors, as well as for further academic studies.
Recent Economics, Statistics and Mathematics graduates have been hired by:
Both schools run regular careers workshops and events.
Don’t worry if you’re not sure what you want to do next.
Our annual 'Focus on Economics' programme includes workshops to help you explore career options in consulting, government, investment banking, insurance, and trading.
Together with optional modules in specialised areas, you’ll start to get an idea of what your future career looks like.
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics with Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Statistics and Mathematics with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
The School of Economics and Finance at Queen Mary is ranked fourth in London and 25th among all economics departments nationally by the Complete University Guide 2020.
With over 60 passionate academic staff, our School is an exciting place to be if you share our love of mathematical discovery.
We foster a thriving research culture and a supportive learning environment.
Our aim is to make your studies enjoyable, challenging and rewarding, and to provide you with every opportunity to build the knowledge and experience you need for future success.
Our active Mathematics Society organises social events, residential trips, talks and career events.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/mechanical-engineering:
From healthcare robotics to sustainable energy – change the world as you create solutions for society’s greatest challenges.
Fascinated by how science can solve real-world problems?
Have a flair for design and creative thinking?
Join a group of like-minded people who are keen to turn intrigue into a contribution towards a more sustainable future.
Mechanical engineers are at the forefront of developing technologies.
From building robotics that aid healthcare, to seeking sustainable energy solutions.
You could be solving global issues for a variety of sectors.
Equipped for success
Preparing to work in a fast-changing industry, you’ll be equipped with a range of technical, creative and management skills.
Our expert academics will also support you to think innovatively and work confidently in our state-of-the-art labs.
We’re recognised globally for our research, creating new technology and writing publications as a result.
And we’re keen to encourage forward thinking in your work too.
You’ll start exploring your options and growing your network throughout the course.
We regularly bring in industry partners and guest speakers from big businesses including BP, BAE and Rolls-Royce.
Government organisation, NGO, or healthcare institution – prepare to secure exciting work as a graduate engineer.
Our Mechanical Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAES) and Institution of Mechanical Engineers under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC).
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Our BEng programmes partially meet the academic requirements for CEng registration.
Our MEng programmes fully meet the academic requirements for CEng registration.
You can complete your Mechanical Engineering degree in three, four or five years.
All modules are compulsory
You'll study a range of core engineering principles including:
You can look up module descriptions using our module directory.
You'll cover the following specialist topics:
Optional modules:
The credit load for optional modules are to be balanced across semesters.
Students choosing the MEng option spend an additional year studying advanced specialist modules and working on an industry/research project.
Compulsory
Optional modules include:
Students who do not have the required high school qualifications for admission to this degree, or who do not meet their UCAS conditional offers, may be considered for our foundation year.
You will enrol onto Engineering BEng with Foundation.
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Engineering and Material Sciences, including BEng or MEng Mechanical Engineering.
International students who may not have had the chance to study A-level-equivalent qualifications may qualify for our one-year International Science and Engineering Foundation Programme, commonly known as the ISEFP .
On successfully completing the ISEFP , and subject to meeting the progression requirements, you are guaranteed a place on your chosen degree programme at Queen Mary.
Apply for our Mechanical Engineering BEng or MEng with Industrial Experience to spend a year on placement, gaining practical experience and building professional contacts.
The industrial experience year can be taken in Year 3 or 4 of a BEng programme or Year 3, 4 or 5 of an MEng programme.
So far, the following employers are taking Engineering and Materials Science students on for placements in 2025/26: GE, Redbull, Leonardo - Edinburgh, AWE, GE, Airbus, GSK, Roche, Airbus, UKRI-STFC, AtkinsRealis, TFL, Lloyds Banking Group - Edinburgh, Cummins, Mercedes, Francis Crick Institute, Markel, GSK, Siemens Healthineers, Cummins, Deloitte, P&G.
Please note that industrial placements are highly competitive and awarded based on application, academic track record and performance at interview.
Add on an integrated masters to complete advanced modules and a high-level group project.
Go global and add an optional year abroad to your degree.
Your year abroad can be taken in Year 3 of your degree, with your Year 3 modules taken in Year 4.
Find out more about study abroad opportunities at Queen Mary , including the progression requirements.
"The Careers Advisors have been an integral source of guidance for me to develop interview skills and secure a year-long Industrial Placement at Rolls-Royce, where I worked as a Mechanical Engineering Intern.
I have had incredible opportunities, as well as learning from industrial experts."
You'll learn through a combination of lectures, laboratory practicals and problem-based learning.
You should plan for 14-17 hours of formal teaching each week, plus time spent on group projects.
For every hour spent in class, you’ll complete a further one to two hours of independent study.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework, written reports, projects, presentations, group work and exams in the summer.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including Maths and Physics or Chemistry at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including BB in Maths or Physics at A-Level.
This programme requires ATAS clearance.
Students who are not EEA or Swiss nationals may require ATAS clearance to undertake this course.
The CAH3 code for this course is CAH10-01-02.
Further information on ATAS can be found on our Advice and Counselling webpages .
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including AB in any order in Maths and Physics or Chemistry at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including Maths and Physics or Chemistry at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB  including AB in any order in Maths and Physics or Chemistry at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including AB in Maths and Physics or Chemistry at A-Level.
Many Mechanical Engineering graduates go on to further study, or find work in the energy, manufacturing, transportation or communications sectors.
Engineering consultancy is another possible career.
Recent graduates have been hired by:
With job roles including:
*GOS 2019-23
The Queen Mary careers team offer:
Mechanical Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Engineering with Foundation - BEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering - MEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering with Industrial Experience - MEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering with Year Abroad - MEng (Hons)
With a 100-year track record in significant impacts and advancements, we offer accredited programmes that prioritise problem-based learning and career-readiness for rapidly growing sectors.
Join a diverse and collaborative community whose unique perspectives and engineering skills are changing the world.
Study with an award-winning academic team behind revolutionary developments in medical robotics, pre-clinical drug testing, sustainable materials and renewable energy.
From our home in Mile End, you’ll have access to first-rate facilities that complement your learning.
Graduates from our programmes go on to do amazing things, like making affordable period underwear for the humanitarian sector, and inventing a washing machine that doesn’t need electricity to run.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 8736

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/graduate-diploma-in-humanities-and-social-sciences:
For Y2QA:
For Y2QC:
Get the skills and experience you need for a postgraduate degree in the humanities and social sciences, designed for international and EU students.
Are you changing disciplines?
Need to improve your level of English?
Don't otherwise meet the academic entry requirements for direct entry to a master's degree?
Our Graduate Diploma in Humanities and Social Sciences offers non-UK students a one-year pathway to postgraduate study at Queen Mary and other UK institutions.
Running from either September to June or January to July, this highly intensive diploma is primarily aimed at those wanting to study business and management, politics and international relations, linguistics or film.
You'll take two compulsory modules along with two other modules of your choice, which will be determined by the subjects you want to study at Masters Level after completing your diploma.
You'll develop solid knowledge in your chosen academic field, and improve your ability to use academic English effectively at postgraduate level.
Start your Graduate Diploma in Humanities and Social Sciences in either September or January.
You’ll choose your modules based on which postgraduate degree you want to study after your diploma.
You choose the rest of modules depending on which master's degree you want to take after the diploma.
Plus one of the following pairs:
Choose two from the following pairs:
The most impressive feature is diversity, students from different countries, different cultures.
This can broaden my horizon and worldview.
Moreover, the teachers are very professional and dedicated, the courses are practical and useful for the following Masters programme.
Academic subjects are taught in lectures and seminars.
Lectures can contain up to 50 students, but seminars will be divided into smaller groups of up to 18 students.
English language and study skills modules are taught in groups averaging 16 students.
You will attend classes for up to 20 hours per week: 12 hours of English Language and Study Skills and up to eight hours of academic subjects.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (portfolios, individual and group presentations, written assignments, in-class tests, research projects and seminars) and/or examinations in May or June.
We accept a wide range of European and international qualifications.
We require IELTS 5.5 overall including 5.5 in Writing, Reading, Listening and Speaking.
Find out more about our English language entry requirements , including the types of test we accept and the scores needed for entry to the programme.
Once you have met the conditions of your offer, you will need to pay a deposit of £2,000 towards your tuition fees.
This deposit will help in applying for your Tier 4 (General) student visa.
Find out more about deposits and read our refund policy.
If your fees are being paid by a government sponsor we do not require a deposit; however, we will need a formal letter from your sponsor confirming the arrangement.
Students who achieve the required grades in the diploma are guaranteed a place on a relevant postgraduate degree at Queen Mary.
The diploma will also help you to access postgraduate study at other leading UK institutions.
Recent students have gone on to earn postgraduate degrees in:
Languages, lingustics and film
Geography
School of Medicine and Dentistry:  Centre for Public Health Policy
** Also available as an MRes.
The School of the Arts combines innovation, discovery and excellence in education and research in Drama, Film, Modern Languages, English & Comparative Literature, Creative Writing, Linguistics and Liberal Arts.
We rank in the top 100 worldwide for Arts and Humanities ( QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024)
With our commitment to social justice, inclusivity and social mobility, our collaborations with external organisations, prominent writers and performers, and our facilities that support both academic and practice-based learning, an education in the School of the Arts equips our students with critical thinking and practical skills, unleashes their imagination and enables them to reach the levels of excellence needed in today’s industries.
We regularly host prominent writers and performers and collaborate with leading organisations such as the V&A, the Barbican, the Live Art Development Agency and Shakespeare’s Globe.
We are renowned for the depth and impact of research - which leads our teaching.
We rank 1 st for drama and in the top 10 for film in the UK for the quality of our research (REF2021).
Our multilingual community brings together brilliant minds from across the world to share a wealth of expertise combining research excellence with an unrivalled commitment to social justice and social mobility.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/neuroscience:
Learn from leading researchers as you unravel the mysteries of the most complex organ in the human body—the brain.
Remarkable recent advances make neuroscience one of the fastest-growing and most exciting areas in biomedical sciences.
Taught by the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, our course combines the ir strengths, expertise and state-of-the-art facilities.
From Great Ormand Street Hospital to the Institute of Cancer Research, you ’ ll find our graduates in a range of pharmaceutical , research and public sector roles.
To prepare for your future, y o u’ ll build a strong foundation in biomedical science, including neuroanatomy, biochemistry, molecular biology and pharmacology.
Our research spans from medical neuroanatomy to the evolution of neuropeptide signalling in vertebrates.
Through extensive genetic analysis, we ’ ve found strong evidence that there is a causal relationship between the genetics of impulsivity and bipolar disorder.
A significant discovery in this area.
In the final year, pick from modules covering stem cells, the repair and regeneration of the nervous system, perspectives on brain disorders and cognitive neuroscience .
You ’ ll also carry out a lab-based research project or work with an existing research group .
How will you help shape the future of neuroscience?
You can complete your Neuroscience degree in three or four years.
If you choose to study abroad, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Foundation Programme
Semester 1
Year-long modules
Our Neuroscience BSc with Year in Industry is available to transfer onto providing you achieve a satisfactory academic result in Year 1 and meet other academic requirements*.
If you choose to transfer to this programme, you will spend a year working in an industrial placement in your penultimate year as part of your degree.
During your second year you will identify and apply for an industrial placement opportunity, with one on one support provided by academic staff .
This unique experience will benefit your prospects for graduate employment, an industrial placement is an excellent opportunity to develop real world skills and put your learning into context.
Students can apply for industrial placement positions in a range of relevant workplaces, such as in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry or an NHS laboratory.
Please note Year in Industry opportunities are highly competitive.
If you are unable to obtain a placement, you'll transfer back onto our BSc programme and complete your third year at Queen Mary.
*To take part in the year in industry, students will have to achieve a Year 2 average module mark of at least 60% with no failed modules across Years 1 and 2.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Neuroscience BSc with a Year Abroad.
Learn more about financing your year abroad here.
I've always been fascinated by how the human body functions, especially when it comes to the brain.
I really enjoy getting hands-on in practical sessions, seeing the results firsthand, and then diving into the analysis.
This curiosity and passion for both research and lab work naturally led me to pursue Neuroscience.
During my first year, I had the incredible opportunity to dissect a human brain,  offering a hands-on approach to understanding human anatomy.
We use a mixture of teaching styles - lectures, tutorials, classroom activities and laboratory work.
Outside of classes, you’ll need to spend 20 to 25 hours per week preparing, writing up and reading.
Each module is assessed by written examinations and coursework (practical reports, field course reports, essays, problem sheets, online exercises and tests).
Final-year students undertake a research or investigative project, assessed with a detailed written report, poster and interview.
You will also have access to the facilities of the medical school, including our fantastic library.
View tour of Fogg Building
View tour of Blizard Building
Our standard contextual offer: Grades BBC including BB in Biology or Chemistry and one further science subject from Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths or Physics at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: Grades BCC including B in Biology or Chemistry and one further science subject from Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths or Physics at A-Level.
Neuroscience provides an ideal background for medicine or dentistry, as you will have studied a wide range of biomedical subjects.
The 19 highest-ranked students from our Biomedical Sciences, Neuroscience and Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics programmes are guaranteed an interview for the five-year A100 Medicine MBBS degree at Queen Mary University of London.
For the top seven ranked students, there is a guaranteed interview for the five year A200 BDS dentistry programme.
Students are selected at the end of the second year on the basis of an aggregate of academic ranking (50%) and UCAT score (50%) and start the programme after they have completed their final year.
The top five of these students will also be considered for the four-year A101 MBBS Graduate Entry Programme.
93 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2020/21).
Our Neuroscience graduates go on to a wide variety of careers:
Some examples of careers Neuroscience graduates have gone on to do include:
Learn more about graduate employability
The School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences has a careers consultant, who can offer specialist advice and organise subject-specific events.
We also have a dedicated internships coordinator.
Neuroscience - BSc (Hons)
Biological Sciences with Foundation - BSc (Hons)
Neuroscience with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
The School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences is a large and dynamic school with strong links to industry.
We offer a stimulating and supportive learning experience.
You’ll experience inspirational teaching from high-calibre staff who are leaders in their field.
According to the Research Excellence Framework, 91 per cent of our Biological Sciences is either world-leading or internationally excellent.
You’ll stay up to date with weekly departmental seminars on new research findings.
The Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is one of the oldest medical schools in the UK.
We’re in an unrivalled position to offer you the very best student experience.
You’ll be taught by experts who are passionately engaged with their subject, and our degrees have extremely high satisfaction rates – in the most recent National Student Survey, 92 per cent of our students were satisfied overall with the quality of their programme.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/mathematics-and-statistics:
Make a difference in the ever-developing digital world where you’ll tackle industry’s challenging mathematical problems.
In our digital age, we create an ever-increasing volume of data every day.
With enormous data sets emerging across all industries, the ability to analyse, interpret, and communicate data through statistical analysis is an increasingly important skill.
Our expert teaching team deliver all-round mathematical training with an in-depth study of statistics.
You’ll start by building a foundation across pure, discrete, decision and modern applied mathematics.
Then specialise in a range of topics from computational statistics to actuarial mathematics.
Interested in applying probabilistic modelling to genetics?
Curious how banks use statistics to predict the impact of economic crises?
Focus your study to match your ambitions with our optional modules.
As part of your learning, you’ll have the opportunity to apply to take a year abroad or kickstart your career with a professional placement.
Being in our London location, you’ll be spoilt for choice.
Your CV will now be stuffed with sought-after skills and knowledge that you’ll have picked up throughout the programme.
Next, our careers consultant will work alongside you to guide you into the perfect career.
How does pharmaceutical research, banking, investment, or forensics sound?
You can complete your Mathematics and Statistics degree in three or four years.
If you choose to do a professional placement or study abroad, this will take place in Year 3, and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Semester 2
Students who do not have the required high school qualifications for admission to this degree and students who do not meet their UCAS conditional offer may be considered for the 4-year degree (foundation year plus the 3-year degree).
International students with Year 12 or a completed international high school certificate qualify for the one-year foundation programme commonly known as the ISEFP.
The foundation programme offers a range of transferable skills and an opportunity to improve on your knowledge content for relevant Maths and Science subjects.
You will enrol on a Mathematics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Mathematical Sciences including BSc Mathematics and Statistics.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Mathematics and Statistics.
Apply for our Mathematics and Statistics BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work in the financial sector as part of your degree.
As well as helping you to stand out from the crowd and secure graduate employment, a placement is an excellent opportunity to develop your business skills and put your learning into context.
A Professional Placement/Industrial Experience year is not guaranteed, but you will receive support to identify and apply for opportunities, as well as interview preparation support to secure a placement/industrial experience year.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Mathematics and Statistics BSc with a Year Abroad.
Queen Mary has links with universities across the globe, including North America, Asia and Australia (partnerships vary for each degree programme).
You can do either a year in a professional placement or a year abroad - you cannot combine these options.
"Thinking that most things can be rendered to numbers and equations is something that has always challenged my perception of the world.
This course offers plenty of modules to choose from and build your own path.
On top of that, the University is always eager to offer guidance and support.”
You’ll learn through lectures and tutorials, and in exercise classes where students work together on problems, discuss ideas and ask questions.
Some modules, such as Introduction to Statistics, have a practical element taught in one of our computer labs.
Formal teaching time typically takes up 16 hours each week.
You’ll also be expected to complete additional hours of independent study.
Most of your modules will be assessed by an examination worth at least 90 per cent of the year’s study, with the remainder covered by coursework and tests.
Some BSc students will also complete a final-year project.
The School of Mathematical Sciences has invested £18m to create an inspiring, collaborative space for our community of students and staff.
The building includes high-quality teaching rooms, private and group study areas and a new social hub.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC, including B in Maths at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including B in Maths at A-Level.
As a student of mathematics, you’ll develop strong numerical, analytical and problem-solving skills that will set you apart from other graduates.
And with a specialism in statistics, you’ll already be expert at applying advanced theories to real-world data.
Many graduates apply their degree knowledge in the finance, accounting or actuarial professions.
Others translate their skills into careers such as management consulting, marketing, engineering, teaching and the public sector.
Recent graduates of the School of Mathematical Sciences have been hired by
The School of Mathematical Sciences provides networking opportunities and runs events to help you identify your career options.
You can also gain certification in applications such as Microsoft Excel and SAS (Statistical Analysis Software).
We have a dedicated careers consultant and an internships coordinator who can help you to develop your employability.
Learn more about Careers support at Queen Mary .
Mathematics and Statistics - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Foundation - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics and Statistics with Professional Placement - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics and Statistics with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
With over 60 academic staff passionate about mathematics, the School of Mathematical Sciences is an exciting place to be for those who share our love of mathematical discovery.
We foster a thriving research culture and a supportive learning environment that puts the needs of our students first.
We are also engaged in the wider community and regularly run interactive activities to encourage more students to take mathematics at A-level and degree level.
The School holds a department-level Athena SWAN Bronze award, which recognises and celebrates good employment practice for women working in mathematics and science education and research.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/actuarial-science:
The future is uncertain, but statistics can reveal ways to measure risk.
Study this accredited course to learn how.
Imagine being able to predict the future.
Not by using a crystal ball, but with numbers.
To become an actuary, you’ll need a combination of mathematical expertise, specialist knowledge and drive to make a difference.
Taught by experts with many years of industry experience, our programme is accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
Our research covers everything from geometry and analysis to algebra and number theory.
As well as mathematics, you’ll unravel areas like probability, actuarial and financial mathematics, and business economics.
All of this will mean you’ll be exempt from up to six of the seven Core Principles exams, so you’ll be on your way to becoming a qualified actuary with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
This degree is currently accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
Successful students gain exemptions from up to six of the seven Core Principles examinations under the new IFoA Curriculum 2019.
Find out more about the professional qualifications required for an actuarial career.
You can complete your Actuarial Science degree in three or four years.
If you choose to do a professional placement or year abroad, this will take place in Year 3, and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
*Students seeking exemption from the maximum number of IFoA examinations must take all modules marked with *
You will enrol on a Mathematics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Mathematical Sciences including BSc Actuarial Science.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Actuarial Science
Apply for our Actuarial Science BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work in the financial sector as part of your degree.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Actuarial Science BSc with a Year Abroad.
“This course provides the foundation for my path towards becoming a fully qualified actuary and offers a deep level of general mathematical understanding.
The specialist modules are taught by professional actuaries, who invite guests to give us a first-hand insight into the field.”
Many statistical modules have a practical element, presented in one of our computer labs.
Management modules are assessed using a combination of coursework (presentations, assignments, essay report writing, in-class tests, research and project work) and/or examinations in May or June.
The School of Mathematical Sciences has invested £18m to create an inspiring, collaborative space for our community of students and staff.
You’ll also have access to a purpose-built media suite designed to support student entrepreneurship.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB, including A in Maths at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB, including Maths at A-Level.
We’ve always got your future in mind.
As part of our Actuarial Professional Development module, which you’ll take in your first and second year, professional actuaries come to campus to talk about their career path.
Past speakers have worked at organisations including the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, EY, Aviva and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Students studying within The School of Mathematical Sciences have secured placements at EY, Goldman Sachs and Renault.
After graduating, you might work as an actuarial analyst, auditor, actuarial consultant or data science consultant.
This career path is the perfect way to turn numbers into new insights and shape understanding of risk.
Graduate employers include:
The School of Mathematical Sciences provides networking opportunities and runs events to help you identify potential career options.
We have a dedicated careers consultant and an internships coordinator.
Actuarial Science - BSc (Hons)
Actuarial Science with Professional Placement - BSc (Hons)
Actuarial Science with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/mathematics-with-finance-and-accounting:
Discover the equation of success as you develop numerical, analytical, and financial skills to make a difference in business.
Make informed accounting decisions.
Forecast future financial scenarios.
Analyse business data.
Evaluate investment opportunities.
Learning mathematics with finance and accounting equips you with a powerful toolkit in the world of business and commerce.
We’ve designed this course to cover key numerical and analytical skills, alongside solid financial grounding.
And you’ll explore how you can make a real impact in the workplace through your new ability to tackle complex financial problems.
This course is more than just theory – it’s about practical application too.
You’ll have the opportunity to apply for a paid professional placement to put your knowledge into practice in the financial sector.
Or how about applying to study abroad with one of our partner universities in North America, Asia or Australia?
Teaching and employability are a priority for us.
Taught jointly by the School of Mathematical Sciences and the School of Business and Management, you’ll learn from experts across both fields.
And with the support of our careers consultant, you could soon be thriving as a chartered accountant, auditor, or financial investigator.
You can complete your Mathematics with Finance and Accounting degree in three or four years.
If you choose to do a professional placement or study abroad this will take place in Year 3, and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
You will enrol on a Mathematics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Mathematical Sciences including BSc Mathematics with Finance and Accounting.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Mathematics with Finance and Accounting.
Apply for our Mathematics with Finance and Accounting BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work in the financial sector as part of your degree.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Mathematics with Finance and Accounting BSc with a Year Abroad.
Queen Mary has links with universities across the globe, including North America, Asia and Australia (partnerships vary for each degree programme).
"I am fascinated with the way my course is structured; my course has allowed me to explore and see different branches of mathematics with the provision of excellent course materials and support from the department."
Statistical modules may have a practical element, taught in one of our computer labs.
You will also have the opportunity to complete a final-year project.
Find out what our students think about studying Mathematics with Finance and Accounting at Queen Mary.
The programme is designed to give you a head start in the finance, accounting or actuarial professions.
You may also choose to move into careers such as management consulting, marketing, engineering, teaching and the public sector.
Recent graduates of the School of Mathematical Sciences have been hired by:
Learn more about Careers Support at Queen Mary.
Mathematics with Finance and Accounting - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Finance and Accounting with Professional Placement - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Finance and Accounting with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
We teach you to think beyond textbooks, management fads and memorised formulas for success.
The School is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), which ensures that the highest standards of excellence in teaching, research, curriculum, and learner success are met.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), we dramatically moved up the Times Higher Education rankings.
Among 108 UK business schools, the School now ranks:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/biology:
Demand for trained biologists is high.
Not just in the scientific world, but across different sectors and society as a whole.
New generations of scientists are crucial to the future of our world.
Become a biologist to carry out research, find solutions and create change to preserve our planet.
Our teaching team have extensive experience.
Studying with us, yo u’ ll learn from our research on genetics, ecology, and the intersection of the two , so that you can make a real difference, whatever you decide to do.
Alongside core areas, you’ll choose from a wide range of optional modules covering everything from physiology to computing skills.
Mix and match to take a broad approach to your studies or drill deep into the areas that interest you .
A degree in biology opens up endless options.
Yo u’ ll have the skills you need for a career in conservation and wildlife management, the agricultural industry or biotechnology .
Y ou ’ ll also be a great match for roles with clinical and laboratory work.
We ’ ll make sure your CV dazzles potential employers and is packed with the experience you need for your first role.
We believe you should apply your skills to the real world too.
As part of our core and optional modules, you ’ ll join us on trips across the UK and abroad.
You might study tropical ecology in Kruger Park, South Africa.
Or perhaps you ’ ll explore terrestrial and freshwater aquatic ecosystems in Croatia.
Where in the world will this degree take you?
You can complete your Biology degree in three or four years.
Foundation
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree - apply for our Biology BSc with a Year Abroad.
Compulsory fieldwork will not cost you anything extra.
For optional fieldwork, you will have to cover the cost of your flight and contribute towards accommodation and food.
The highlight of my course has been the hands-on experience during field trips in ecology, where we collected raw data from sites and turned it into scientific reports.
These practical aspects, coupled with engaging modules and informative lectures, have been invaluable in my academic journey.
The opportunity to apply theoretical knowledge in laboratories, working with techniques such as PCR and gel electrophoresis, has made me proficient in various microbiology techniques like micropipetting and hematology.
Final year students undertake a research or investigative project, assessed with a detailed written report.
P assionate about ecology, conservation or animal biology ?
Y ou ’ ll have the chance to develop real-world skills with our field trips.
Past students have studied large mammals in South Africa and explored ecological interactions in Croatia .
Click the button below to find out more:
Learn more about field trips
Our standard contextual offer: BBC including B in Biology at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including B in Biology at A-Level.
Biology graduates are equipped for careers in conservation and wildlife management, or in the agricultural industry or biotechnology.
Many of our students go on to clinical and laboratory work, postgraduate research or science education.
Others transfer their skills into sectors such as marketing and finance.
85 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2020/21).
Recent Biology graduates have been hired by:
The School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences has a careers consultant, who can offer specialist advice and organise subject-specific events.
Biology - BSc (Hons)
Biology with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
According to the Research Excellence Framework 2021, 91 per cent of our Biological Sciences research is either world-leading or internationally excellent.
Thanks to our close teaching and research links, students have special opportunities for original investigative work with the Natural History Museum, ZSL London Zoo, Forest Enterprise, and University of London’s Marine Biological Station at Millport in Scotland.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/robotics-engineering:
Get hands-on experience of how robots and intelligent systems are designed and built, and gain knowledge of how they are applied across society.
Real-life robots might be a bit different from the ones on our screens, but they ’ re completely changing sectors such as manufacturing, healthcare, transport, agriculture and energy.
Global employers need people like you to become engineers, to build the technology of the future.
Our undergraduate robotics engineering course was one of the first in the UK to provide core robotics education.
It combines expertise in mechanical, electronic and computer systems to show you what ’ s possible in this field.
Learn from world-leading experts and use our r obotics hub, rapid prototyping facilities, MakerSpace and electronics laboratories.
Surrounded by experts
You ’ ll have opportunities to learn robot design and control, computer programming, software engineering, embedded systems and artificial intelligence – expertise that ’ s in high demand.
If you choose the MEng option, you ’ ll also explore specialised areas such as computer vision, machine learning and real-time control.
Engineers, computer scientists, clinical experts and psychologists are all carrying out research at the Centre for Advanced Robotics.
Together they ’ re investigating everything from autonomous systems and cognition to human-robot interaction and medical robotics.
With opportunities to get involved with research, industrial projects and internships, you ’ ll gain the experience you need to stand out.
Decide how you want to make an impact and we ’ ll help you get there.
Our Robotics Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all of the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Our BEng programmes partially meet the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Our MEng programmes fully meet the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
You can complete your Robotics Engineering degree in three, four or five years.
Compulsory:
The credit load for elective modules are to be balanced across semesters.
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Engineering and Material Sciences, including BEng or MEng Robotics Engineering.
Apply for our Robotics Engineering BEng or MEng with Industrial Experience to spend a year on placement, gaining practical experience and building professional contacts.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree.
"This programme has equipped me with an exceptional set of fundamental skills highly sought after by employers.
What sets this degree apart is its versatility, combining Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and AI/Computer Science, paving the way for a multitude of opportunities post-graduation."
We offer excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Electronics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including BB in Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Electronics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including AB in Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Electronics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Electronics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Robotics bridges the gap between mechanical engineering, electrical engineering and computer science, opening up a range of careers.
Graduates are well placed to find work in manufacturing, technology or medical robotics, as well as in research and development.
Recent Robotics Engineering graduates have been hired by companies including:
*GOS 2019-21
Robotics Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Robotics Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Robotics Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Robotics Engineering - MEng (Hons)
Robotics Engineering with Industrial Experience - MEng (Hons)
Robotics Engineering with Year Abroad - MEng (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/finance:
Explore the theory and logic behind economic decision-making, risk management, and the behaviour of financial markets.
The relationships between financial systems, economies, and society are more complex than ever.
Join us to explore financial topics such as asset pricing and corporate finance, alongside applied economics.
We’re carrying out leading research in finance: bond and foreign exchange, financial derivatives, portfolio management, and much more.
By joining our community, you’ll hear the latest insights and become part of conversations about how the industry is changing.
Immersing you in the financial world is important to us.
Our Banking and Finance Society, the Economics Society, and the Trading and Investment Society organise academic and social events for students.
You’ll be the first to hear about opportunities to network and make invaluable connections.
We’re one of the few UK universities to offer training and access to Bloomberg trading terminals, as well as an Interactive Brokers Trader Workstation (TWS) and FXCM FX Trading Station.
All of this means you can apply your skills to analyse real-time financial market data.
From corporate strategy to technology management, whatever area interests you, we’ll help you get ready for career success.
You can complete your Finance degree in three or four years.
The programme structure shown is for prospective/new students and may vary for existing students.
Disclaimer: The programme structure shown is for prospective/new students and may vary for existing students.
Compulsory modules
Students must choose at least four modules (60 credits) from a list of level 6 Finance modules.
Students must choose at least two modules (30 credits) from a list of level 6 SEF modules.
Find out more about and what the are.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (presentations, assignments, essay report writing, in-class tests, research and project work) and/or examinations in May or June.
Applicants who have studied A levels in the UK will be considered on a case by case basis.
Current University Foundation Programme or International Foundation Programme applicants will not be considered for the Integrated Foundation level course.
Please contact the Admissions team if you are unsure about eligibility.
If a career in economics, banking or finance is your calling, this programme will provide you with an impressive entry route – in addition to opening up pathways for postgraduate studies.
Finance - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Finance with a Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Finance with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Finance with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Finance with a Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Finance with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/chemistry:
Chemistry is often called the central science, connecting mathematics, physics, biology and medicine.
Alfred Nobel invented dynamite.
Marie Curie pioneered research on radioactivity.
And Alice Ball developed the first successful treatment for leprosy.
What will you discover?
Minimising the environmental impact of chemical processes and creating long-lasting materials for medicine are just a few of the exciting developments in recent chemistry.
On BSc Chemistry, you’ll join like-minded students who are keen to tackle global challenges and make a valuable contribution to society.
Spectroscopy, quantum chemistry, and organic synthesis – these are just some of the modules you can study.
You’ll thrive as you put knowledge into action in our modern facilities.
Including our state-of-the-art laboratory and analytical suite.
We’re at the forefront of research and teaching.
Globally recognised and multi award-winning.
Our course is also accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry, giving you the confidence that your education is high quality.
Employability is important to us.
We work closely with the careers team and regularly invite successful industry speakers.
We also offer the opportunity for you to become a school rep, outreach ambassador, and join our chemistry society.
Choose your own pathway through this degree — add a year in industry or studying abroad, or carry out an additional year of advanced study to graduate with an MSci.
This programme is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry , giving graduates Associate Member status.
You can complete your Chemistry degree in three, four or five years.
If you are a BSc student and choose to do a year in industry or study abroad, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
If you are an MSci student and choose to study abroad, this will take place in Year 4, and the Year 4 modules will be studied in Year 5.
Want to pick up some solid work experience while practising your skills in a real-world laboratory?
Apply for our Chemistry BSc with a Year in Industry/Research.
Some of our students have been awarded prestigious work placements with UK and international pharmaceutical companies.
During your second year, you will identify and apply for a placement opportunity, with one on one support provided by your adviser.
If successful, you'll spend your third year working in the pharmaceutical industry or carrying out an extended research project.
Please note that placements are highly competitive and awarded based on your application, academic track record and performance at the interview.
Should you not succeed in securing a placement, you'll transfer onto our BSc programme and complete your third year at Queen Mary.
Apply for our Chemistry MSci to spend an extra year undertaking an extended research project and studying advanced modules.
Consider this option if you’re interested in a career in academic or industrial research.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Chemistry BSc or MSci with a Year Abroad.
You can do either a year in industry or a year abroad – you cannot combine these options.
My Chemistry degree helps me expand my knowledge not just in the Chemistry field but also explore the physical and mathematical side.
It causes me to push myself as an individual due to the diverse nature of the course itself.
Outside of classes, you’ll need to spend 18 to 20 hours per week preparing, writing up and reading.
Each module is assessed through theory examinations and coursework.
View tour of Joseph Priestley Building
A tour of the Jospeh Priestley lab where our undergraduates are taught.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC including B in Chemistry at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including B in Chemistry at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including Chemistry at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including B in Chemistry at A-Level.
As well as being equipped for a career in the chemical industry – one of the UK’s largest – chemistry graduates are highly rated by business and finance employers for their data-handling and analytical skills.
93 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2017/18).
Recent Chemistry graduates have been hired by:
The School of Physical and Chemical Sciences has a careers consultant, who can offer specialist advice and organise subject-specific events.
Chemistry - BSc (Hons)
Chemical Sciences with Foundation - BSc (Hons)
Chemistry with Year in Industry/Research - BSc (Hons)
Chemistry with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Chemistry - MSci (Hons)
Chemistry with Year Abroad - MSci (Hons)
The School of Physical and Chemical Sciences (SPCS) at Queen Mary combines the academic rigour of a Russell Group institution with a friendly and supportive atmosphere.
The Department of Physics and Astronomy’s teaching academics work on high-profile international collaborations, including experiments at CERN.
Our researchers are searching for new planets around distant stars, developing and applying quantum technologies and theoretical concepts.
Our PsiStar Physics and Astronomy Society is extremely active with around 200 members.
Our academics use cutting edge experimental and theoretical techniques, alongside modern data science, to push the boundaries of their research areas.
The Department is proud to have played a role in some of the most exciting discoveries of the past 100 years, including the discovery of the W, Z, and Higgs bosons, the discovery of the closest Earth-like exoplanet to us, Proxima B, and the first ‘superstring revolution’.
We have recently recruited new staff in key areas such as particle physics, quantum technology, and space weather.
We have state of the art laboratories, computing facilities, and a rooftop observatory, offering high-quality support for Physics and Astronomy teaching and research.
The Department of Chemistry enjoys an outstanding research and teaching quality reputation.
We are a vibrant department, carrying out internationally leading research in fields such as Functional Materials and Nano Science, Synthesis, Catalysis, and Physical and Computational Chemistry.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, Chemistry ranked 8th in the United Kingdom for Research Impact and 9th in the UK for Research Output.
We have recently recruited new staff in key areas such as Carbon Nanotechnology, Organic Electronics, and Catalysis.
The £5.2m refurbishment and modernisation of our Chemistry Lab facilities have secured the highest quality standard for Chemistry teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-and-international-relations:
Pandemics, wars, and political unrest have shown us that understanding economics and international relations is vital.
The global economy is made up of interconnected countries – all have their own structures and economic policies.
To navigate these complex relationships, governments, and international organisations need people like you to understand economic theory and its interplay with politics.
You’ll be studying specialist areas in each subject that combine economics and international relations.
All of this will help you understand how economics and international relations work together.
Being able to investigate the relationships between economic variables will be key.
Throughout your studies, you'll have access to our Bloomberg trading room where you’ll use the same data used by practitioners in industry.
Our teaching team makes an impact on policy-making and public debate through their research.
We’re also near London’s financial centres, the City and Canary Wharf, which means we invite guest lecturers to share their insights with you about specialist areas such as Brexit Britain, and international development.
You can complete your degree in three, four or five years.
Two elective modules to be chosen from all level 5 SEF or PIR modules.
SEF elective modules
Examples of PIR elective modules are:
Students must choose at least three modules (45 credits) from a list of level 6 economics modules.
Students must choose at least three modules (45 credits) from a list of level 6 politics modules.
Assessment is by a variety of methods including formal examinations, in-class tests, coursework of various forms, presentations, independent dissertation.
Most modules will have two methods of assessment.
You will study Economics and International Relations in one of Queen Mary’s newest buildings – the Graduate Centre which opened in 2017.
This degree offers professional training in economics and International Relations, providing an excellent basis for employment in the private or state sector or for further academic study.
Learn more about
Economics and International Relations - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Relations with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Relations with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Relations with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Relations with Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Relations with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
We’re a growing School invested in high-quality teaching, and we pride ourselves on our friendly and informal approach.
Our London location is home to the nation’s Parliament, political think tanks and economic powerhouses, we host high-profile speakers, and we offer students regular contact with Westminster, Whitehall and the third sector.
Our staff are active researchers with diverse interests, from British politics to the Middle East, which is reflected in our teaching and the breadth of our programmes.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/graduate-diploma-in-finance-and-economics:
For Y2QF:
For Y2QG:
Get the skills and experience you need for a postgraduate degree in finance or economics, designed for international and EU students.
Our Graduate Diploma in Finance and Economics is jointly run by the School of Economics and Finance and the Language Centre.
It offers international and EU students a route to postgraduate study at Queen Mary and other leading UK institutions – whether you're changing disciplines, need to improve your level of English, or don’t otherwise meet the academic requirements for direct entry to a master's degree.
Running from either September to June or January to July, this highly intensive diploma incorporates English language and study skills with economics and finance modules, all of which are taught by our expert academic staff.
This programme will help you adapt to academic life in the UK, and successful applicants are guaranteed progression onto postgraduate courses in the School of Economics and Finance at Queen Mary.
You'll develop solid knowledge in your chosen academic specialties, and improve your ability to use academic English effectively at postgraduate level.
Start your Graduate Diploma in Finance and Economics in either September or January.
In the past I never thought the English course would be useful.
However, I found my reading and writing skills and the way I think and understand is now very different from the past.
Our pre-masters graduate diplomas facilitate entry into postgraduate study in a number of disciplines at Queen Mary and other leading UK institutions.
* No progression agreement.
Offers are made on a case by case basis.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/accounting-and-finance:
Are you determined to succeed in the world of corporate finance?
Driven to succeed in the world of corporate finance?
There’s no better place to study this subject than in London.
The financial district is only 15 minutes away from campus and you’ll benefit from our partnerships with leading organisations like PwC, one of the big 4 consultancy firms.
You don’t even have to leave campus.
You’ll have access to Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS), specialist econometrics software and industry-standard datasets including Bloomberg and Eikon.
Everything you need to polish your skills in analysis and data handling is right here.
The importance of ethical practice
The School of Business and Management value transparency and ethical accounting practices, integrity and accountability.
These values are reflected in our research.
As the gender gap in accountancy is becoming a hot topic, our teaching staff are bringing awareness and bridging the gender gap within these professions.
Others are investigating new accounting phenomena and political issues.
With the increasing complexity of financial markets and the integration of technology, graduates in this field are in high demand.
Follow in the footsteps of our past students who now work at EY, CBRE, Deloitte, and more.
The School of Business and Management has strong links with professional accountancy bodies the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) .
This course is accredited by ACCA.
BSc Accounting and Finance students will be eligible to acquire exemptions to certain ACCA and CIMA exams by applying to the relevant professional body upon graduating.
If you are taking an Integrated Foundation Year, this will take place before Year 1.
•    IFP/J3016 Applied Mathematics for Business •    IFP/J3000 English Language and Study Skills •    IFP/J3020 Independent Study Project •    IFP/J3015 Introduction to Business and Management •    IFP/J3018 Management
You must choose one from:
•    IFP/J3017 Accounting for Business •    IFP/J3019 Marketing
Optional
Choose one from:
•    Film studies: IFP3009 Introduction to Film Studies; IFP3010 European and American Art Cinema •    French: IFP4011 French Language and Culture I (a); LAN4012 French Language and Culture I (b) •    Geography: IFP/J3005 Introduction to Human Geography; IFP/J3006 The Human Geography of London •    History: IFP/J3023 The History of the UK from 1900 to 1955; IFP/J3025 The History of the UK from 1956 to 2016 •    Politics and International Relations: IFP/J3003 Introduction to Politics; IFP/J3004 Introduction to International Politics •    Japanese: IFP4041 Japanese Language and Culture I (a); LAN4042 Japanese Language and Culture I (b) •    Literature: IFP/J3007 Introduction to English Literature; IFP/J3008 Introduction to American Literature •    Spanish: IFP4021 Spanish Language and Culture I (a); LAN4022 Spanish Language and Culture I (b) •    German: IFP4001 German Language and Culture I (a); LAN4002 German Language and Culture I (b) Please note that all modules are subject to change.
International students can apply for our Accounting and Finance BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
The foundation year prepares you for the rest of the programme and is taught on campus by Queen Mary lecturers.
"The course put equal focus on accounting and finance, and that is what I liked the most.
From lectures to seminars, everything was thoroughly planned.
From the different societies to Queen Mary's diverse student body, you’ll enjoy every bit of your time at university."
Teaching and research are based on three pillars: governance; social justice and sustainability; as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME).
You'll receive approximately two hours of weekly contact time per module, comprising lectures led by academic staff and smaller seminar groups.
You'll have access to well-designed resources for this self-directed study, and we will pair you with an academic advisor to support your progress at all stages of your degree.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB More information on our contextual offer criteria can be found on our contextualised admissions page .
At the end of your degree, you will be well-equipped for graduate careers in accounting, finance, banking, insurance and management, in both private and public sectors.
You will have a strong foundation which will enable you to pursue a higher degree in the field of accounting and finance, or further professional accounting qualifications, if desired.
Recent graduates from the School of Business and Management have been hired by:
The School of Business and Management has a dedicated Employer Engagement and Internships Coordinator, and we run a tailored careers programme for students.
In previous years, this has included business-specific workshops, industry networking events and visits to companies such as Bloomberg and Salesforce.
Our careers team can also offer:
Learn more about career support and development at Queen Mary .
Accounting and Finance - BSc (Hons)
Accounting and Finance with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)
The School of Business and Management takes a unique interdisciplinary approach that promises students an inspiring educational experience: we teach you to think beyond textbooks, management fads and memorised formulas for success.
Our faculty come from all over the world and bring a sound practical knowledge to their teaching: they have worked for the BBC, UK government ministries and the European Union.
The School’s Mile End location keeps us close to all the action in the City and Canary Wharf.
We’re also home to a number of research centres, groups and clusters focused on public engagement and having a real-world impact.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), the School of Business and Management dramatically moved up the Times Higher Education rankings.
Queen Mary is also part of the Russell Group - a body of leading UK universities dedicated to research and teaching excellence.
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7882 2166

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/psychology:
Psychology gives us valuable insight into many areas of life – from human behaviour in the classroom to animal cognition.
Take a rigorous, biological approach to psychology, studying it as a natural and experimental science.
Our programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society, a mark of quality that employers understand and value .
It also means you ’ ll be able to continue to certain clinical postgraduate programmes.
Cognitive psychology, language acquisition, consciousness and causality are just a few of the areas you ’ ll cover.
You ’ ll also integrate biological approaches by studying animal behaviour and cognition, as well as mammals and evolution.
When you ’ re not in the lecture theatre, you ’ ll be learning how to carry out your own research in top facilities including our EEG lab.
Our team are carrying out research on the cause of mental illnesses such as anxiety and depression, the mental lives of bees and the impact of opt-in organ donation.
Perhaps you ’ ve already seen them on the news commenting on topics such as decision-making behind lockdowns.
Because of our diverse expertise, we ’ re able to offer an extensive range of optional modules in areas such as criminal and forensic psychology, neuroscience and decision making.
From clinical psychology to counselling, your psychology degree can take you in different directions where you can support communities and make an impact.
By graduating from this programme with at least a second class honours degree you will be eligible for Graduate Membership of the British Psychological Society , the starting point for a career in Psychology.
You can complete your Psychology degree in three or four years.
If you choose to study abroad or do a year of professional experience, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Our Psychology BSc with Professional Experience is available to transfer onto providing you achieve a satisfactory academic result in Year 1.
If you choose to transfer to this programme you will spend a year working in a professional experience position in your penultimate year as part of your degree.
During your second year you will identify and apply for a professional experience opportunity, with one on one support provided by your adviser.
As well as helping you to stand out from the crowd and secure graduate employment, professional experience is an excellent opportunity to develop real world skills and put your learning into context.
Students can apply for professional experience positions in a range of sectors, including hospital clinics, mental health charities, HR, market research, youth centres, government or clinical research labs.
Please note professional experience opportunities are highly competitive.
If you are unable to obtain a professional experience position, you'll transfer onto our BSc programme and complete your third year at Queen Mary.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Psychology BSc with a Year Abroad.
The highlight of my course has been participating in research.
It’s not everyday that you get to be experimented on and with research being such a big part of psychology, it’s cool to see what it’s like from a participant’s perspective!
Some of the research I have participated in has also been third year dissertation research projects which has been useful for sparking ideas and learning about how it will look when I come to do it next year
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures and practical sessions, where you will get hands-on experience of running your own experiments, questionnaires and surveys.
You’ll also have regular tutorials in small groups of six to eight students.
For every hour spent in classes you’ll be expected to complete additional hours of independent study – preparing, analysing results, writing up and reading.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including Biology, Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths, Physics or Psychology at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including Biology, Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths, Physics or Psychology at A-Level.
If your qualifications are not accepted for direct entry onto this degree, consider applying for a foundation programme.
C andidates MUST be aged 18 or over by the start of the programme.
If applicants are under 18 at the start of the course, they can request deferred entry if they will meet the age requirement the following year.
95 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2020/21).
Many graduates use their subject knowledge to move into clinical psychology, teaching, counselling or lab work.
Others transfer their skills into sectors such as marketing, HR, finance or technology.
Recent Psychology graduates have been hired by:
Psychology - BSc (Hons)
Psychology with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-and-politics:
Untangle complex national and global issues from two different and complementary perspectives.
Have you ever wondered how public policies are created?
Join us to study economics and politics, where you’ll explore these big questions and more.
London’s financial centres, the City and Canary Wharf, are on our doorstep which means we invite guest lecturers to talk with you about specialist areas such as Brexit Britain and international development.
You’ll also learn from a teaching team that makes an impact on policy-making and public debate through their research.
Looking at the economy as a whole is a central part of this course, but you’ll analyse the behaviour and motivations of individuals and companies too.
You’ll also combine insights and perspectives from economic and political theory to explore social issues such as globalisation, racism, and political violence.
This degree offers professional training in economics and invaluable political understanding, alongside transferable research, analytical and communication skills.
We’ll help you master the quantitative techniques you need to investigate relationships between economic variables.
In our Bloomberg trading room, you’ll use the same economic and financial data used by practitioners in industry.
You can complete your Economics and Politics degree in three, four or five years.
International students can apply for our Economics and Politics BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics and Politics BSc with a Year Abroad.
Doing Economics and Politics has allowed me to do two subjects I am really interested in.
I like the diversity of topics within both subjects and the styles of learning are very different.
I find it most interesting when the two topics overlap, for example using economic theory to describe political ideologies such as communism.
It allows you to draw ideas from another area and adapt it.
The School of Economics and Finance and Department of Politics and International Relations both offer excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
The Graduate Centre
Graduates move into government, policy, research or campaigning roles or into the commercial world, including large financial companies and professional services firms.
Recent Economics and Politics graduates have been hired by:
We run regular careers workshops and events.
Our annual 'Focus on Economics' and 'Focus on Finance' programmes offer exclusive workshops covering careers in consulting, government, investment banking, insurance, trading and more.
We arrange a number of work experience opportunities and organise a competitive Careers Taster Scheme where students visit a range of employers – which in the past has included Barclays, Lloyds of London and KPMG.
The Department of Politics and International Relations offers one-to-one academic guidance, tailored workshops and external speakers on topics such as careers in public affairs and working in Parliament.
Economics and Politics - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Politics with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Politics with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Politics with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Politics with Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and Politics with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/biochemistry:
Biochemistry – applying molecular concepts to complex biological systems – is the cutting edge of science in the 21st century.
Imagine a world where we have whole new classes of drugs available, modified organisms that produce high value compounds and crops thriving outside their usual range.
Thanks to biochemists this could only be twenty years away – and you can be part of these exciting scientific advances with this course.
You ’ ll learn about biochemical processes and the chemistry that underpins them, while studying real-world applications in biotechnology and medicine.
With our optional modules, you ’ ll also be able to look at areas like neuroscience, pharmaceutical chemistry and genetics.
Our biochemistry academics focus their research covers the structure and function of the most fundamental molecular components of life.
Their research has an impact on different areas from biomedicine to the environment and agriculture.
Your employability is a priority for us.
We organise regular events to help you think about your future beyond university, including career events and talks from biochemistry graduates.
You can also take part in peer leadership and teamwork activities, summer laboratory internships and society events.
Our biochemistry programme is taught almost exclusively by academics who specialise in this area.
So, if you want to make an impact, studying here is a great place to start.
You can complete your Biochemistry degree in three, four or five years.
Semester 1: Choose two from
OR
Pharmaceutical chemistry A
Semester 2: Choose two from
Microbial Physiology and Growth
Apply for our Biochemistry BSc with a Year in Industry/Research.
Some of our students have been awarded highly prestigious work placements with UK and international pharmaceutical companies.
During your second year you will identify and apply for a placement opportunity, with one on one support provided by your adviser.
Please note that placements are highly competitive and awarded based on your application, academic track record and performance at interview.
Apply for our Biochemistry MSci to spend an extra year undertaking an extended research project and studying advanced modules.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree - apply for our Biochemistry BSc or MSci with a Year Abroad.
The highlights of my biochemistry course at QMUL have been multifaceted.
The hands-on lab experience has been invaluable, allowing me to apply and deepen my understanding of complex concepts in a practical setting.
The programme has helped solidify my theoretical knowledge but also enhanced my practical skills.
You will learn through an engaging combination of active lectures, collaborative workshops, hands-on lab sessions, independent research projects, and ongoing assessment.
Lectures will introduce you to core theories, concepts, and methods in biochemistry.
In workshops, you will apply your knowledge by solving problems, analysing data, and designing experiments in small groups.
Lab sessions provide opportunities to develop your practical techniques and conduct experiments.
You will also complete an independent research project under faculty supervision, through which you will gain first-hand experience investigating a biochemical issue.
Biochemistry graduates are in demand in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries.
Many of our students go on to scientific careers, including clinical and laboratory work, postgraduate research or science education.
99 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2020/21).
Recent Biochemistry graduates have been hired by:
Biochemistry - BSc (Hons)
Biochemistry with Year in Industry/Research - BSc (Hons)
Biochemistry with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Biochemistry - MSci (Hons)
Biochemistry with Year Abroad - MSci (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/biomedical-engineering:
3D printing human tissue, AI diagnosis, new implantable devices – the future of healthcare is being built here.
Problem solver?
Technology lover?
Fascinated by the world of medicine?
Study biomedical engineering to help healthcare evolve, answer big questions about the human body and its functions and make a difference to people around the world.
Digital health, data science, biomaterials, clinical engineering, biomedical devices, tissue engineering … these are just a few of the areas you ’ ll examine.
All of our modules are built with your employability in mind, to reflect the global challenges you ’ ll face as a future biomedical engineer.
Hub for vital research
Most of our academic team is based in the School of Engineering and Medical Science, but you ’ ll benefit from the expertise of Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry too.
You ’ ll meet patients and clinicians, as well as professionals from medical device companies.
We ’ re at the forefront of areas such as predictive modelling, regenerative medicine and healthcare robotics.
Some of our researchers are using 3D printing to make functional human tissue implants and organ-on-a-chip models for testing new medicines.
Others are using machine learning models to predict the risk of preterm birth, or artificial intelligence to help make diagnoses.
By becoming part of our community, you ’ ll discover where you can make a difference.
Our Biomedical Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) , the Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine and Institution of Mechanical Engineers under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
You can complete your Biomedical Engineering degree in three, four or five years.
Elective modules:
The design project allows students to apply their skills and techniques to an area that particularly interests them.
Recent projects have included:
Students on the MEng degree will work on an advanced level project with research and industry-led teams, in partnership with clinicians, to solve real-world biomedical engineering problems.
Optional modules cover a range of topics including:
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Engineering and Material Sciences, including BEng or MEng Biomedical Engineering.
Apply for our Biomedical Engineering BEng or MEng with Industrial Experience to spend a year on placement, gaining practical experience and building professional contacts.
Please note - you can do either a year in industry or a year abroad - you cannot combine these options.
"What truly sets Queen Mary apart is its distinguished professors, who have proven to be invaluable mentors to me.
Their guidance was not confined to academic matters but extended to nurturing my aspirations to be a researcher one day.
They took a keen interest in my growth, fostering an environment where questions were encouraged and ideas flourished.
This mentorship propelled me into a few research projects, allowing me to contribute meaningfully to their ongoing endeavours."
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, laboratory practicals and problem-based learning.
Our undergraduate students talk about their experience of studying Biomedical Engineering.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Biology at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including BB in Maths or Physics or Biology at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including AB in Maths and Physics or Chemistry or Biology at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including in Maths or Physics or Biology at A-Level.
Biomedical Engineering graduates commonly find work within the medical device industry, or as NHS Clinical Scientists or Clinical Engineers.
A significant number go into research careers by studying for a PhD, in areas from stem cells and tissue engineering to biomechanics and implant design.
Because the Biomedical Engineering degree at Queen Mary is a solid, professionally-accredited engineering degree, graduates also find employment in other areas of engineering.
A small number of Biomedical Engineering graduates also take up places on medicine degrees, including the fast-track graduate entry programme.
92% of Biomedical Engineering graduates were in work or further study 15 months after graduation (GOS 2020/21)
Recent Biomedical Engineering graduates have been hired by:
Biomedical Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Biomedical Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Biomedical Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Biomedical Engineering - MEng (Hons)
Biomedical Engineering with Industrial Experience - MEng (Hons)
Biomedical Engineering with Year Abroad - MEng (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/medical-genetics:
Discover breakthroughs in the genetic basis of diseases and explore the potential of targeted therapies and personalised medicine.
Driven to save lives and make an impact?
Here you ’ ll learn how to do exactly that from pioneers in medicine and the sciences.
One recent breakthrough by our genetics researchers could help develop treatments for cancer – scientists discovered a molecular lock that prevents genetic mistakes when cells divide.
Taught by both the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, you ’ ll benefit from the strengths of both schools, their academic experts and their top facilities.
This course will set you up for careers in biomedical or genetic research, biotechnology, and bioinformatics/data science.
It's also one of the many possible pathways into medicine.
Building a strong scientific understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of human health is central to the course.
You ’ ll also look at the development of disease and explore the evolution of diseases within human populations.
Our experts will discuss mitochondrial and human genomes while introducing you to medical research, genetic counselling, and bioethics.
All this knowledge will help you design your own project.
You ’ ll learn what it takes to become a researcher who se work saves lives and shapes the future.
You can complete your Medical Genetics degree in three or four years.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Medical Genetics BSc with a Year Abroad.
Studying Medical Genetics has always been a passion of mine and Queen Mary was the ideal university to pursue my passion in understanding genetic based concepts and developing my personality.
Medical Genetics at Queen Mary was voted UK for Organisation and Management, 4th in UK for Assessment and Feedback in the recent National Student Survey 2024.
The Medical Genetics programme will prepare you for careers in medical research, the pharmaceutical industry and health sciences.
Many of our students go into scientific roles such as clinical and laboratory work, postgraduate study or science communication.
Recent Medical Genetics graduates have been hired by:
Medical Genetics - BSc (Hons)
Medical Genetics with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/international-foundation-year:
Get the skills and experience you need to study an undergraduate degree in the humanities and social sciences.
This programme provides international and EU students with a direct route to undergraduate study at Queen Mary or other UK universities.
All modules are taught by our expert academic staff, and you’ll have full access to all student facilities, including welfare, library, social and sport.
This one-year programme will allow you to progress to any degree in the faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Queen Mary – including law, business management, economics, international relations, politics, comparative literature, linguistics, languages, film studies, history and geography.
You can also apply to other UK universities after your foundation year.
Compulsory modules include English language and study skills and an independent research project, and you'll also study modules in three further academic subjects based on your chosen pathway.
You'll develop solid knowledge in your chosen academic specialties, and improve your ability to use academic English effectively at undergraduate level.
Start your International Foundation Year (IFY) in either September or January.
Your modules will be assigned based on which degree you want to study after the IFY.
Doing the foundation course was a very fun and enjoyable experience which allowed me to develop great relationships with friends and teachers, which set me on the right path to life as an undergraduate student.
You’ll receive approximately 17 hours of contact time per week in semester one and 15 hours per week in semester two, comprising lectures, smaller seminar groups and one-to-one tutorials.
You will complete a further 20 to 25 hours of independent study each week.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework (writing tests, reports, presentations, seminar skills) and/or examination.
The International Foundation Year (IFY) accepts applicants with a wide range of different qualifications.
When you apply for the IFY you will choose a degree that you plan to study after completing the foundation year.
On successfully completing the IFY, and subject to meeting the progression requirements, you are guaranteed a place on your chosen degree programme at Queen Mary.
All IFY applicants will be required to provide a valid UKVI Academic IELTS (or accepted equivalent) test score which meets the minimum requirements for their chosen pathway.
The International Foundation Year (IFY) offers a route to undergraduate degrees in a vast range of disciplines.
Recent graduates have gone on to gain degrees in:
All Queen Mary students have access to the Careers and Enterprise Centre, who can offer:
Learn more about .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/marketing-and-management:
Marketing is the bridge between an organisation’s products and its target audience – and it can make or break a business.
Step into a world where marketing and digital analytics intertwine seamlessly, propelling you with an entrepreneurial mindset into the future of business.
The BSc Marketing and Management programme takes you on a transformative journey, blending traditional marketing and management principles with the cutting-edge advancements of the digital age.
It prepares you with the knowledge, skills, and mindsets for the existing and evolving marketing roles in the traditional and digital business landscape.
From influencer marketing and the rise of AI tools to the move towards flexible working, the world of marketing and management is changing.
This evolution means there are lots of roles for managers and marketers to pick from in market research, PR and brand consultancy.
And we’ll help you find where you fit.
Our course combines business management with marketing theory and practice.
You’ll focus on the principles of marketing and management before unpicking more specialised areas.
These include advertising, consumer psychology and market analytics.
Campus is buzzing with conversations about our latest research on social justice, good governance and sustainability too.
This programme offers more than just a curriculum.
Extensive engagement with digitisation and a creative approach permeates every module, preparing you for the current market and a pioneer of future trends.
Students can also benefit from extensive industry engagement through networking events, internships, a year in the industry, and real-world projects.
Our vibrant extracurricular activities and a plethora of opportunities to develop employability and entrepreneurial skills will see you emerge as a well-rounded, confident professional.
Moreover, nestled in the heart of one of the world’s most dynamic cities, Queen Mary University of London offers an unparalleled advantage for BSc in Marketing and Management program students.
London, a global hub of creativity and innovation, provides a perfect backdrop for your studies.
Here, creativity flourishes everywhere, from the cutting-edge startups in Shoreditch to the world-renowned advertising agencies in Soho.
The city’s vibrant blend of cultures and industries creates a unique ecosystem where ideas cross-pollinate, and inspiration is never far away.
As a student at Queen Mary, you’ll have the opportunity to immerse yourself in this vibrant environment, with access to industry events, networking opportunities, and real-world experiences that will enrich your education and ignite your passion for marketing and digital analytics.
London is not just a place to study; it’s a living, breathing classroom that will shape your future in the most exciting ways imaginable.
Our proximity to the city means you’ll be in the right place for internships and networking events.
We also love taking your learning outside of the classroom.
Our academics do this by using their connections to arrange visits to companies in the city.
Previous partners have included Microsoft and Facebook.
If you select the 'Year in Industry' route, you’ll have the opportunity to spend the third year of your degree on an industry placement with an employer.
We give you the tools you need to confidently step into the world of work.
The teaching team also has an initiative to help you build your personal brand, so you know how to present yourself to employers and secure your dream role.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) has awarded a Graduate Gateway against this programme.
The modules you study as part of the degree give exemptions towards the CIM Certificate and CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing.
To complete the CIM qualifications, you must then take one or two CIM modules (for the certificate and diploma respectively), after graduation.
If you choose the Year in Industry option, your degree will take four years to complete.
Any second year student wishing to choose the Marketing Dissertation module in their third year, must study Research Methodology in the second year.
Third year students take four compulsory modules and four optional modules.
Students who choose to take the optional dissertation module must choose four compulsory modules and two optional modules, plus the dissertation module.
International students can apply for our Marketing and Management BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
This option will allow you to spend the third year of your degree on an industry placement with an employer, in a role relevant to your field of study.
After the placement, you will return to university to complete your final year of study, meaning your degree programme will last four years in total.
"This course challenges me to look at businesses from new perspectives, and opens my mind to different possibilities of how businesses might be run in the future.
I’ve been given the opportunity to expand my CV by taking part in the SBM Consult programme and working as a student ambassador.
These experiences were fun and helped me connect to other SBM students, while developing my professional abilities."
Programme Directors: Dr S M A Moin and Dr Tribikram Budhathoki
Graduating with a BSc in Marketing and Management will improve your employment prospects in this highly competitive sector.
You will be well-placed to pursue roles in B2B and B2C marketing, communications, market research, public relations, brand consultancy and social media.
Your studies in management will be useful to the pursuit of management positions.
You will also gain a solid grounding in business, so will be well-placed to transition into other business roles.
Read BSc Marketing and Management graduate Remmy's story .
Marketing and Management - BSc (Hons)
Marketing and Management with a Year in Industry - BSc (Hons)
Marketing and Management with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/computer-systems-engineering:
Technology is transforming our lives.
Combine computing skills and engineering expertise to build the future.
Technology is continuing to evolve and rapid developments and digitisation are changing life as we know it.
Learn to design the innovative systems behind these developments while examining how they collect and process information.
You could study just computer science or electronic engineering, but by studying a programme that is a 50/50 split, you’ll be able to choose from a wider range of career opportunities.
Our expert teaching team cover the foundations of computer software and hardware, with modules in everything from programming and circuit design to operating systems and signals.
In our Electronics Lab and Informatics Teaching Lab, you’ll get practical experience with digital circuit design, embedded systems and various software development tools.
These form the foundation of computer systems, the internet and the applications that run on it.
You’ll also learn about intelligent systems, which have a range of applications, from vehicles to smart cities.
You’ll have the chance to complete two practical projects.
In your second year, you ’ ll team up with other students on an engineering project, which will be software-based.
Then in your final year, you ’ ll work on a hardware or software-based project focused on your interests.
Not only will you graduate with a range of sought-after skills, but you’ll also have built a strong personal brand, thanks to our MySkills initiative within the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science.
Get ready to impress employers and secure a role where you can put your knowledge into action.
This programme is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
This three-year programme is available with an additional foundation year, as well as an optional industrial experience year or year abroad.
Find out more about module descriptions and assessment in our module directory.
Choose two modules from:
Please note that optional modules are subject to timetabling constraints and module availability.
Students who do not have the required high school qualifications for admission to this degree, or do not meet their UCAS conditional offer, may be considered for our Electronic Engineering foundation year, which offers students who meet progression requirements a pathway to year one of BEng Computer Systems Engineering.
International students who may not have had the chance to study A-level-equivalent qualifications may qualify for our one-year International Science and Engineering Foundation Programme, commonly known as the ISEFP.
This degree can be taken with an optional Industrial Experience Year, spent working in a role related to your field of study.
This is taken in your third year of studies.
Past students have worked with companies including:
Find out more about degrees with industrial experience .
If you are not successful in securing a placement, your third year will be spent at Queen Mary completing your studies.
Our School has a wide range of international partners all over the world.
Find out more about study abroad opportunities at Queen Mary .
Please note - you can either do a year in industry or a year abroad - you cannot combine these options.
"This course has been a perfect match between the core concepts of computer science and electrical engineering.
I have been able to learn software languages like Java, JavaScript, and Python, alongside working on projects that require VHDL, C programming and microcontrollers.
I have enjoyed the challenges presented in coursework and learning new programming languages."
You’ll spend 15 to 20 hours per week in lectures, laboratory sessions and tutorials.
You will also be expected to complete additional hours of independent study.
You’ll meet with your personal advisor regularly to ensure that you are settling in and progressing well.
Individual and group projects are assessed through a written report, practical demonstration and oral examination.
As a student, your home will be the Mile End campus.
​ You'll spend lots of time in our ITL building, which is only used by Electronic Engineering and Computer Science students.
This lab is made up of 300 fully networked multimedia workstations, which run both the Linux and Windows operating systems.
The ITL is due to undergo a £5.8 million refurbishment, funded by the Office for Students.
A range of specialised equipment is also available in the Electronics Lab.
The labs are open seven days a week, generally between 8am and midnight.
Students can also gain remote access to the School’s computing facilities 24-hours a day.
We have a number of students employed as 'module demonstrators', who are available in labs to help first and second-year students to navigate software and programming tools.​ ​
Our standard contextual offer: BBC with B in Maths at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC with B in Maths at A-Level.
This course equips students to pursue a wide range of careers within electronics and computing, internet operations or the manufacturing industry.
Previous graduates of this programme are working in roles such as:
Graduates of this programme will also be well-placed to pursue masters degrees in computing and data science, or electronic and electrical engineering.
Our Careers and Enterprise service run regular employability events and workshops, and host industry speakers on campus.
We have recently welcomed speakers from companies including IBM, Amazon Web Services and FDM Group.
We also have an industrial placement advisor within our School, who supports students with finding and applying to year-long placements.
Computer Systems Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Electronic Engineering with Foundation - BEng (Hons)
Computer Systems Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Computer Systems Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
The School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science carries out world-class research – and applies it to real-world problems.
Being taught by someone who is changing the world with their ideas makes for exciting lectures, and helps you to stay ahead of the curve in your field.
99 per cent of our research is classed as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ (REF 2021).
We are proud of our excellent student-staff relations, and our diverse student body, made up of learners from more than 60 countries.
The School has a close-knit student community, who take part in competitions and extracurricular lab activities.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/pharmacology-and-innovative-therapeutics:
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries need pharmacology experts.
Could you be the next pioneer?
Explore basic, molecular and clinical pharmacology.
Get practical experience using scientific instruments in modern labs.
Understand the clinical trial and regulatory pathways for bringing new drugs from an initial idea through to the patient.
Taught by the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, this course combines their strengths, their academic experts and facilities.
As well as the drug development cycles, the team will teach you about the practical aspects of managing a pharmacology business , from research and development costs to marketing and licensing.
And did we mention you can complete a year in industry or a year abroad?
The Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is home to the William Harvey Research Institute, a world-leading pharmacology centre.
All of the research happening here underpins our teaching.
We ’ re carrying out research on basic sciences aiming to identify novel targets for drug development, such as our research into the control of cell division which will help develop cancer treatments.
Other academics are focused on evaluating the efficacy of drugs further down the development pipeline.
Feel inspired by everyone you connect with and discover how you ’ ll make an impact.
You can complete your Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics degree in three or four years.
To successfully secure a placement before the start of the 3rd year students need to meet the progression hurdle of achieving a Year 2 average module mark of at least 60% with no failed modules across Years 1 and 2.
Students will be responsible for seeking industrial placements with the support of an industrial placement co-ordinator.
However, it is highly competitive and placements are not guaranteed.
Successful students will study 120 credits made up of BMD5555.
The year in industry is pass/fail and students who don't pass their year will be transferred onto the standard 3 year programme.
Students will apply for industrial placements during their second year.
If you do not secure an industrial placement, choose not to undertake a year in industry, or do not pass the year, you will be transferred to the standard three-year BSc degree.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics BSc with a Year Abroad.
‘The highlight of my course has been the practical lab sessions.
They have really helped bring the course to life!
I recently went on a field trip to AstraZeneca with the Queen Mary William Harvey Research Institute Society and feel the scientific skills I have learnt throughout the course have helped prepare me for a lab-based career.
You’ll also benefit from the expertise of the William Harvey Research Institute, a world-leading pharmacology centre based within Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry.
View Charterhouse Square campus images
The Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics programme provides a strong background for medicine or dentistry, as you will have studied a wide range of biomedical subjects and developed an in-depth knowledge of medicines.
Of these students, the top five will also be considered for the four-year A101 MBBS Graduate Entry Programme.
Examples of careers recent Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics graduates have gone on to do include:
Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics - BSc (Hons)
Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics with Year in Industry - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/electrical-and-electronic-engineering:
Apply your interest in electronic devices and stand at the forefront of creating innovative new technologies.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Queen Mary was voted 2nd in the UK for Student Voice and 2nd in UK Teaching on my Course in the recent National Student Survey 2024.
Electrical engineers have played a significant role in advancing technology, continuously innovating and enhancing systems that benefit society.
Smartphones have revolutionised the way we communicate, electronics in security systems help us feel safer, and new electrical systems in medical equipment have allowed us to monitor patients more effectively.
Keen to play your part?
With the rapid expansion of the sustainability and technology sector, the demand for electrical engineers has risen.
You could find yourself at the forefront of innovation in manufacturing or aerospace.
Designing power electronics to improve wireless communication technologies.
Or, how about helping the UK to have cleaner energy to meet the 2050 wind generation targets?
With many global organisations having research and development facilities across the UK, the choice is yours.
This programme is shaped by our outstanding industry connections.
To set yourself up for employment success, you’ll have the opportunity to apply for industrial experience with our flexible 4-year course.
We invite guest speakers from companies such as H&MV Engineering, Ricardo plc, and Octopus Electric Vehicles.
We also offer IET membership, so you can receive sector updates and access to networking.
Our course is continually developing and adapting to meet the fast-paced industry demands.
Our team of research-active academics update the modules based on the latest developments in the industry.
So, you’ll learn about relevant topics from communication and wireless systems to power systems and electric vehicles.
Equipped with specialised skills ready to solve real-world problems, you’ll put your knowledge into action in our newly refurbished electronics lab.
We were recently r anked 16th in the world and 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering  - US News World University Ranking 2024.
Our BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Our MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
There is also an integrated masters option, available to high-achieving applicants.
In the third year you will choose to specialise by following either the Electronics Stream or the Electrical and Power Engineering Stream.
Electronics Engineering stream:
Semester 5
Plus TWO modules from:
Semester 6
Electrical Engineering stream:
Optional modules are subject to timetabling constraints and module availability.
Choose three modules from:
Students who do not have the required high school qualifications for admission to this degree, or do not meet their UCAS conditional offer, may be considered for our Electronic Engineering foundation year, which offers students who meet progression requirements a pathway to year one of BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
International students who may not have had the chance to study A-level-equivalent qualifications may qualify for our one year International Science and Engineering Foundation programme, commonly known as the ISEFP.
This degree can be taken with an optional industrial experience year, spent working in a role related to your field of study.
Please note that industrial placements are highly competitive and awarded based on your application, academic track record and performance at interview.
Add on an integrated masters to gain specialised knowledge through completing a high-level group project and your choice of advanced modules.
Our MEng meets the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Find out more about study abroad opportunities at Queen Mary.
"I can confidently say that the knowledge and skills gained from my degree have always given me a step up when applying for roles, and more importantly, boosted my ability to excel in my role.
University will be the most challenging and rewarding time in your life.
You will amass a wealth of knowledge and skills that will be applied in ways you wouldn't think possible!"
​ You'll spend time in our ITL building, which is only accessible to Electronic Engineering and Computer Science students.
This lab is made up of 300 fully networked multimedia workstations.
A range of specialised equipment is also available in the Electronics Lab, where you will take part in lab-based teaching sessions, and work on your practical projects.
We have students employed as 'module demonstrators', who are available in labs to help first and second-year students with their work.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC with BB in Maths and one of Physics, Electronics or Computing at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including B in Maths and C in one of Physics, Electronics or Computing at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB incl.
Maths and one of Physics, Electronics or Computing at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC incl.
BB in Maths and one of Physics, Electronics or Computing at A-Level.
Electrical and electronic engineering is a rapidly growing sector with an enormous range of career opportunities.
Engineering UK has forecasted that hundreds of thousands of 'green jobs' will be created over the next couple of decades, requiring skilled engineers to work in areas such as electrical, wind and solar power, electric vehicles and energy-efficient product development.
Graduates of this programme could also pursue roles in the aeronautical, broadcasting, design engineering, automotive, construction and telecommunications industries.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Electrical and Electronic Engineering - MEng (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/physics:
Physics is the study of the universe - exploring the basic rules that dictate the behaviour of matter and energy, from subatomic particles to the evolution of galaxies.
Physics will shape many of the radical solutions needed to tackle global issues.
Be part of the revolution with our thought-provoking course accredited by the UK Institute of Physics .
Not many universities can say they ’ ve been teaching physics since 1896.
Or that they ’ re one of the birth places of string theory.
Today we ’ re a hub for scientific excellence and home to academics leading the way in everything from materials for healthcare to the next generation of radiation detectors.
Our courses are informed by our cutting-edge research.
Not only will you hear about our work, but you ’ ll also have the chance to get involved with projects.
In the first year you’ll build a solid foundation in both theoretical and experimental physics.
In subsequent years, you will be able to tailor your degree to your interests and passion through our Physics Streams outlined below:
Physics Stream : The most versatile stream.
Pick and choose which subjects interest you and build a kaleidoscope of experimental, theoretical, and computational knowledge.
Theoretical Physics Stream : This stream is the most mathematically oriented and abstract of our streams.
Master the tools needed to push the limits of human understanding and solve the deepest problems that challenge us.
Astrophysics Stream : Explore the universe by learning about the hunt for planets and life outside our solar system, the birth and death of stars, the formation of galaxies, and the mysteries of cosmology.
Learn about the sky above us and our place in the universe.
Use the observatory to enhance your quest.
Physics with AI Stream: Learn about the technologies underpinning the 2024 Physics Nobel Prize.
Our AI modules focus on programming, modern statistical methods, and machine learning.
You will have the opportunity to apply your skills to an AI driven problem in your final year project.
All streams culminate in a full year final project in your area of interest guided by a dedicated academic staff member.
Use this project to build skills that go beyond the classroom and prepare you for a future in any career that you choose.
This programme is accredited by the Institute of Physics .
You can complete your Physics degree in three, four or five years.
If you are a BSc student and choose to study abroad, your time abroad will be during Year 3 and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
If you are an MSci student and choose to study abroad, this will take place in Year 4 and Year 4 modules will be studied in Year 5.
Electives (choose 5 from):
Electives (choose 1 from):
Electives (choose 2 from):
MSci only
Electives (choose 6 from):
Electives (choose 1 from)
Students who do not have the required high school qualifications for admission to this degree, and students who do not meet their UCAS Conditional offer may be considered for the 4 year degree (foundation year plus the 3 year degree).
International students with Year 12 or a completed international high school certificate qualify for the one year foundation programme commonly known as the ISEFP.
The foundation programme offers a range of transferable skills and an opportunity to improve on your knowledge content in relevant Maths and Science subjects.
You will enrol on a Physics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Physics and Astronomy including BSc Physics.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Physics.
Specialise further in the subject by applying for our Physics MSci.
You will take advanced optional modules taught by leading experts in their field of research, and undertake a research project.
It is possible to transfer to the four-year MSci programme after starting your BSc degree, if you decide you would like to stay on to gain a Masters degree.
Students studying BSc or MSci Physics with Professional Experience have the option to apply for a one-year paid Professional Experience internship within their degree programme.
The Professional Experience degree programmes are identical to the BSc and MSci Physics routes except for the addition of the internship year.
You will complete your internship during the third year of your degree programme (or fourth for MSci), returning to Queen Mary for your final year of study.
If you choose to undertake a Year Abroad, this will take place in your third or fourth year of study.
You'll then return to Queen Mary for your final year or years of study.
We have partner institutions in Australia, Canada, Malayisa, Singapore, New Zealand, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and the USA.
For more detail on where you can study on your Year Abroad and things to consider before applying, visit our Study Abroad pages .
The School has a really friendly and supportive atmosphere.
We have a student support officer and each student also has an Academic Adviser.
There are also lots of opportunities to work together with other students or discuss work informally with lecturers.
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, laboratory sessions and tutorial classes.
Your total teaching time will be around 20 hours per week, but you are expected to spend time on independent study and coursework or lab reports.
Overall, you should be spending around 40 hours on your studies each week.
You will be assessed by various methods depending on the nature of the work being carried out.
For example, if the module involves practical work only, the assessment will be based on laboratory reports.
For non-practical modules you will be assessed by weekly coursework, termly assignments and an end-of-year examination.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC including BB in Maths and Physics at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including BC in Maths and Physics at A-Level.
The CAH3 code for this course is CAH07-01-01.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including BB in Maths and Physics at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including BB in Maths and Physics at A-Level.
Many graduates continue their studies with a PhD or MSc, often as a precursor to a career in research.
The flexibility of the programme can prepare you for careers in specialist areas of physics and science more widely, if you have a particular area of interest.
Skills developed through studying physics – such as numeracy, data analysis, coding and problem solving – are also highly transferable into other sectors, including energy, business, marketing, engineering, technology, IT and finance.
Recent graduates of the school of Physical and Chemical Sciences have been hired by:
The School organises specialist industrial placements for Physics and Astronomy students.
Typically around 20 students take advantage of the exclusive work placements.
These placements are coordinated by a placement coordinator, who also provides support to students in applying.
Participating companies include small-medium enterprises operating in industries such as technology, energy and defence.
Larger companies operating in industries such as aerospace, engineering and research also offer internships as part of the scheme.
We run dedicated weekly advice sessions and events such as software bootcamps and careers focus sessions.
Physics - BSc (Hons)
Physics with Foundation - BSc (Hons)
Physics with Professional Experience - BSc (Hons)
Physics with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Physics - MSci (Hons)
Physics with Professional Experience - MSci (Hons)
Physics with Year Abroad - MSci (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/zoology:
From microscopic creatures to turtles and bats, discover the structure, physiology, distribution and behaviour of animals.
Explore zoological thinking with this course designed to unpick the concepts that shape our understanding of animal diversity.
We ’ ll give you a thorough grounding in vertebrate and invertebrate biology, as well as physiology, behaviour, evolution and neurobiology.
Is there a particular area that interests you?
With our wide range of optional modules, you can also explore vital areas of zoology like molecular and population genetics, ecology and immunology.
Queen Mary has an excellent reputation for research in this area, with projects as diverse as the intelligence of bees to studying how environmental DNA is transported through the landscape.
One project even uncovered the truth behind how non-native birds arrived and spread in Britain.
You can complete your Zoology degree in three or four years.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Zoology BSc with a Year Abroad.
Zoology was the perfect course for me as I'd like to go onto working with reptiles or marine animals.
The lab sessions have been a particular highlight for me.
The field trips have been highly enriching, with one particularly memorable excursion focusing on the observation of duck and swan behaviors.
Many of our students progress into scientific roles such as clinical and laboratory work, postgraduate research or science communication.
88 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2019/20).
Recent Zoology graduates have been hired by:
Zoology - BSc (Hons)
Zoology with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/business-management:
Embark on a thrilling journey where you'll be at the forefront of shaping the future of business.
Navigate the rapidly evolving business landscape driven by technological advancements, globalisation and shifting consumer behaviours.
At the same time, explore innovation and entrepreneurship as you develop the tools to embrace emerging trends and capitalise on transformative opportunities.
We’ve designed this degree to combine theory and practice.
Through interactive case studies, real-world projects, and industry collaborations, you'll develop practical skills and learn business concepts.
All of this will empower you to excel in your future career.
Care about sustainability?
We do too.
That’s why we explore topics such as corporate social responsibility and ethical decision-making.
And our research contributes to shaping responsible business practices, fostering sustainable economic growth and addressing societal and environmental challenges.
Studying in one of the world's foremost business and financial hubs, you'll have easy access to a thriving business community and industry events.
Barclays, Accenture and Coca-Cola are just a few of our notable industry partners.
Look out for internship opportunities with them to boost your employability.
You’ll join a community that fosters personal growth and supports your aspirations.
Our graduates are sought after by top employers globally, making Queen Mary the ultimate launchpad for your business management journey.
Students can take seven of the following electives, or five electives plus the dissertation module.
International students can apply for our Business Management BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
This option will allow you to spend the third year of your degree on an industry placement with an employer, in a role relevant to your field of study.
After the placement, you will return to university to complete your final year of study, meaning your degree programme will last for four years in total.
"I’ve had a chance to explore accounting, finance, statistics, marketing, entrepreneurship and human resource management and further niche into my preferred areas.
I’ve been able to take part in SBM-only events and projects - such as consultancy projects and various guest lectures - as well as access paid work opportunities within the School."
Graduates from our business degrees gain crucial skills that are highly valuable to employers, such as: analytical and critical thinking, creative approaches to problem solving, numeracy, confidence in interpreting and applying business data, and the ability to allocate resources and undertake projects.
Some apply their degree knowledge directly, entering roles such as Business Analyst or Marketing and Sales Manager, while others transfer skills gained during study into areas such as media, law or finance.
Business Management - BSc (Hons)
Business Management with a Year in Industry - BSc (Hons)
Business Management with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-and-international-finance:
From failing businesses to widespread unemployment, discover the impact of economic events on the world.
Look beyond the financial headlines and ask key questions about what’s happening behind the scenes.
How do companies make financial decisions?
What risk management strategies are in place?
How do global financial markets influence firms and policymakers?
We’ve designed this course to focus on finance and strategy on an international level, starting with a whole module on the world economy in your first semester.
Academic experts will also discuss other research areas in bond and foreign exchange markets, financial derivatives, international trade, and much more.
With a wide choice of modules in the final year, you also can direct your studies according to your interests or career goals, from behavioural economics to corporate strategy and the finance of emerging markets.
You’ll learn practical skills in our Bloomberg trading terminals, Interactive Brokers Trader Workstations (TWS), and FXCM FX Trading Stations.
At the same time, you’ll gain industry insights through our connections with the Bank of England, HM Treasury, and other financial institutions and professional bodies.
After you graduate, you can register for the Investment Management Certificate exam – a professional qualification highly valued by employers.
You can complete your Economics and International Finance degree in three, four or five years.
If you choose to study abroad or take a year in industry, this will take place in Year 3, and the Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Students must choose at least three modules (45 credits) from a list of level 6 Finance modules.
International students can apply for our Economics and International Finance BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics and International Finance BSc with a Year Abroad.
Student Support at the Scchool of Economics and Finance
If a career in global economics or international banking is your calling, this programme will provide you with an impressive entry route and open up pathways for postgraduate studies.
Our graduates apply for roles across a broad range of fields, from financial intermediation and corporate governance to law and regulation.
We ’ ll help you discover where you fit in and how to make your mark
Recent graduates from the School of Economics and Finance have been hired by:
Economics and International Finance - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Finance with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Finance with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Finance with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Finance with Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics and International Finance with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/aerospace-engineering:
Discover how to develop major aviation innovations and find sustainable solutions to make engineering cleaner.
From faster cars to greener aircraft, aerospace engineers are advancing innovations in today’s world.
Join our Royal Aeronautical Society (RAeS) accredited course to become part of an industry at the forefront of change, supporting other sectors such as renewable energy and sea transport.
W e were the first university in the UK to provide a degree in this area in 1907.
Today, we use our years of experience to help you hone your skills in top facilities.
O ur aero lab has everything from wind tunnels to a flight simulator, an anechoic chamber to a jet engine simulator .
Immersed in industry
Our academic team are experts in all four areas of the field: aerodynamics, propulsion and power, aerostructures, and systems.
We also bring in guest speakers from organisations including Airbus and Altair Engineering.
You ’ ll hear about specific issues, from the effect of pandemics on aviation to modern energy challenges.
You ’ ll start exploring your options and growing your network throughout the course.
Our Industrial Liaison Forum day is a chance to impress potential employers as you present your project findings.
Aviation, defence forces or research centres – where will you apply your skills when you graduate?
Our Aerospace Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society (RAES) and Institution of Mechanical Engineers under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Our BEng programmes meet the academic requirements for IEng registration (RAES) and partially meet the academic requirements for Chartered Engineer registration (IMechE).
Our MEng programmes fully meet the academic requirements for CEng registration (RAES and IMechE).
You can complete your aerospace engineering degree in three, four or five years.
*can only be selected if not previously studied in Y3.
The credit load for elective modules must be balanced across semesters.
You will enrol on Engineering BEng with Foundation.
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Engineering and Material Sciences, including BEng or MEng Aerospace Engineering.
Apply for our Aerospace Engineering BEng or MEng with Industrial Experience to spend a year on placement in the aerospace engineering sector, gaining practical experience and building professional contacts.
The year in industry counts toward the requirements of applying to be a Chartered Engineer.
"I had the opportunity to do a twelve month placement at Airbus UK.
I realised that what I was learning at university was not just to do an exam, I used something I had learnt at Queen Mary at least every day at work.
I can confidently say that a Queen Mary degree in Aerospace Engineering prepares you well for a career in industry."
You should plan for 14 to 17 hours of formal teaching each week, plus time spent on group projects.
The CAH3 code for this course is CAH10-01-04.
The skills you develop on this programme could be applied to next-generation spacecraft and high-performance aeroplanes and helicopters, or to the future of ground transport, such as high-speed trains.
The programme is also relevant to green energy technologies, like wind turbines.
Some of our graduates transfer their skills into areas such as consultancy, IT or finance.
Recent Aerospace Engineering graduates have been hired by:
With job titles including:
Aerospace Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Aerospace Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Aerospace Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Aerospace Engineering - MEng (Hons)
Aerospace Engineering with Industrial Experience - MEng (Hons)
Aerospace Engineering with Year Abroad - MEng (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/mathematics:
Harness the power of logic and reasoning to solve complex real-world analytical, technological, and scientific challenges.
Mathematics underpins much of the modern world.
It’s behind the most advanced scientific and technological developments.
It explains the phenomena in your everyday life: the acceleration you feel in a car, how much interest you’re gaining in your bank account, the way characters interact in video games.
Solving the problems of the 21st century alongside other intellectually curious students, you’ll be able to tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations as you choose from a variety of modules.
Taught in our recently renovated £18-million building with state-of-the-art facilities, you’ll be inspired by a large team of expert academics.
Learn from their years of experience in industry and hear about their cutting-edge research, including how Mathematics helped save thousands of lives in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Outside the lecture theatre, you can experience events led by our award-winning Mathematics Society.
Or perhaps you’ll discover new ways of thinking from experts in one of our seven research groups, including algebra and number theory, statistics with data science, and more.
Make your mark after graduating by fuelling future developments in research, or work in finance, data, engineering or artificial intelligence, for prestigious organisations such as Dyson, JP Morgan and the Financial Conduct Authority.
You can complete your Mathematics degree in three, four or five years.
*MSci students only
Students must choose one of three pathways: General, Pure or Stats and Financial, and then choose 60 credits from each semester from modules listed for that pathway.
Modules outside these pathways may only be taken with School approval via a waiver as these can’t be guaranteed to be non-clashing timetables.
At most, 30 credits in any year may be from outside the pathway.
Please remember that you must pass at least six level 6 modules in year 3.
General pathway
Elective
Pure pathway
Statistics and Financial Pathway
Please note that in order to prepare you for masters-level research, some optional modules listed above will be compulsory for MSci students.
You will enrol on a Mathematics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Mathematical Sciences including BSc Mathematics.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Mathematics
Apply for our Mathematics MSci to spend a further year in advanced study.
You’ll gain specialised knowledge about a topic of particular interest and complete a final-year research project.
This is an excellent opportunity to develop your research skills, and ideal for anyone interested in a career in academic or industrial research.
Apply for our Mathematics BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work in the financial sector as part of your degree.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Mathematics BSc or MSci with a Year Abroad.
Queen Mary has links with universities in across the globe, including North America, Asia and Australia (partnerships vary for each degree programme).
You can do either a year in a professional placement or a year abroad - you cannot combine these options.
"My degree is very flexible: you can choose most of your modules early on, which makes studying much more enjoyable and you can even pick some modules from other departments.
This allowed me to really focus on what I am interested in, while still getting a solid mathematical foundation through the compulsory modules in the first year."
You’ll learn through lectures and tutorials, and also in exercise classes where students work together on problems, discuss ideas and ask questions.
Some modules have a practical element presented in one of our computer labs.
Most of your modules will be assessed by an examination (worth at least 90 per cent of the year’s study) with the remainder covered by coursework and tests.
All students on MSci programmes and some BSc students will also complete a final-year project.
Find out what our students think about studying mathematics at Queen Mary.
As a student of mathematics, you will develop strong numerical, analytical and problem-solving skills, which will set you apart from other graduates.
Mathematics - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Professional Placement - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics - MSci (Hons)
Mathematics with Year Abroad - MSci (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/economics-finance-and-management:
The corporate world is competitive.
Gain an edge and launch your career in business or finance with our extensive expertise.
Specialist facilities.
Influential academics.
Proximity to London ’ s financial centres.
Everything you need for success is right here.
Join us to kickstart your career with a degree designed to give you professional training in economics and finance, as well as knowledge of how the corporate world works.
At the start of the course, we ’ ll help you build a foundation in microeconomics, macroeconomics, fundamentals of management and quantitative analysis.
The rest of the programme combines a range of specialist areas and business studies to get you ready for your career.
Outside the lecture theatre, you ’ ll have opportunities to expand your knowledge, from internships to optional modules.
Explore your interests with our extensive choice of optional modules.
You could analyse the economics of industrial organisation and new technologies.
Or maybe you ’ d prefer to explore the contribution of sociology to politics or the complexity of business decisions.
The choice is yours and we're here to support you along the way.
We run annual workshops to help you explore career options in consulting, government, investment banking, insurance and trading.
So, if you imagine yourself as a future leader, this is the course for you.
You can complete your Economics, Finance and Management degree in three, four or five years.
International students can apply for our Economics, Finance and Management BSc with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Economics, Finance and Management BSc with a Year Abroad.
[Queen Mary] has the best campus in London!
I really like the range of topics covered on my course, from economics and finance to law and marketing.
The teachers are very supportive and are always up for a chat.
Recent Economics, Finance and Management graduates have been hired by:
Economics, Finance and Management - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Finance and Management with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Finance and Management with a Year in Industry - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Finance and Management with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Finance and Management with a Year Abroad - BSc (Econ) (Hons)
Economics, Finance and Management with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Econ) (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/pharmaceutical-chemistry:
Study pharmaceutical chemistry to develop skills that will open doors to rewarding opportunities in a range of industries.
You’ll learn how AI accelerates the drug discovery process, search for ways to combat diseases and viruses, and be at the forefront of medical research.
With a strong emphasis on gaining practical laboratory experience and employability skills, our programme offers a comprehensive view of this exciting field.
P harmacology, biochemistry , cancer chemotherapy , inorganic chemistry , spectroscopy – these are just a few of the areas you’ll examine.
You’ll learn about pharmacology, biochemistry and cancer chemotherapy too.
Learn how drugs are designed and optimised from lead compounds, their modes of action and pharmacology.
We will also teach you how they are developed through trials and into manufacture.
All our modules are taught through a mixture of lectures, tutorials, augmented reality and lab simulation work, reflect ing the challenges you’ll face as a pharmaceutical chemist.
In your final year, you’ll conduct your own supervised research project, either laboratory or literature-based.
You can complete your Pharmaceutical Chemistry degree in three, four or five years.
Apply for our Pharmaceutical Chemistry BSc with a Year in Industry/Research.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Pharmaceutical Chemistry BSc with a Year Abroad.
I really enjoy working in the lab, I like being in a very practical environment.
We get 100 hours of practical work a year, which is quite considerable.
The facilities, the useful equipment and the independence you get here when working on your own in the labs is great.
As well as being well equipped for a career in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries – which are among the UK’s largest – graduates are highly valued by business and finance employers for their data-handling and analytical skills.
Recent Pharmaceutical Chemistry graduates have been hired by:
Pharmaceutical Chemistry - BSc (Hons)
Pharmaceutical Chemistry with Year in Industry/Research - BSc (Hons)
Pharmaceutical Chemistry with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/liberal-arts:
Design your own degree and throw open your career options on this exciting programme.
Where will your curiosity take you?
Have a variety of interests?
Prefer to grow your knowledge across a range of subjects, rather than just one?
Liberal Arts is the idea of having a well-rounded education that cultivates the mind.
With the flexibility to follow your intellectual curiosity throughout this programme, you’ll be able to explore the subjects you’re passionate about.
Combine modules that reflect your individual interests and aspirations.
Alongside learning a language during your first year, you can choose to study film, literature, history, politics, drama, international relations and much more.
Taught by academics across multiple subjects, you’ll benefit from their world-leading research and outstanding contributions across environmental, political, and linguistic projects.
Register your interest
Plot your own path
Through the support of the careers service, you could have the opportunity to work for a variety of companies as you spend a year in industry in your third year.
Perhaps you’ll be making a difference at a charity or contributing new ideas at a local authority.
Make the most of our London location and enjoy putting your new knowledge into action.
The school has a dedicated careers consultant who will help to boost your employability.
You’ll develop communication, leadership, and problem-solving skills, graduating with a diverse mix of abilities and perspectives that will set you apart in the job market.
There will be a wide range of career options to explore from teaching to publishing, international relations to government, and much more.
Which industry will you want to pursue?
The programme is organised around Liberal Arts compulsory modules and seminars in the first and second years, and culminates in a unique research project drawing on expert supervision.
Within your first year of BA study (second year for foundation students), students will study across all themes and be supported by an academic advisor to select the best major and minor routes for their following years.
The below provides an indicative list of what you may study at each level.
30-credit compulsory modules: 30 credits Language (current choice is between French, Russian, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese) Culture and Language
Elective modules: 15 credits from the list of module electives in each theme (45 credits in total).
15 credits from the list of module electives in the discovery module list.
Year 1 options include (amongst many others):
The modules offered will be dependent upon the major and minor theme chosen.
The below provides an indicative list of what you may study within each of the themes.
30-credit compulsory modules: Thinking, Writing and Research across Disciplines Digital Culture and Society OR Cultural Encounters in Theory and Practice
Elective modules: 45 credits from the list of module electives in student-selected major theme.
30 credits from the list of module electives in student-selected minor theme.
Year 2 options include (amongst many others):
30-credit compulsory modules: Liberal Arts Independent Research Project
Year 4 options include (amongst many others):
In your second year (third for those taking a foundation year), you choose to specialise in a major area and a minor area of study, which will define the focal points of your whole degree.
There are three areas: Language and culture, Global cultures, and Interactions: societies and cities.
Alongside choosing from the three themes as major and minor specialisms, the BA Liberal Arts programme also includes Discovery modules, which enable you to explore new themes and forms of study beyond your major and minor choices.
You can spend the third year of the four-year version of the degree (fourth of fifth for those taking the foundation year) on an international exchange with one of our partner universities.
The four-year option is compulsory for those taking a modern languages as a major or minor.
For details on all our modules, please visit the module directory .
International students can apply for our Liberal Arts BA with an Integrated Foundation Year.
This degree can be taken with an optional industrial experience year, and owing to the range of subjects offered by a Liberal Arts programme, it is possible to pursue work placements across a variety of industries.
Recent students have worked with companies such as:
P lease note that industrial placements are highly competitive across the UK; Queen Mary students are supported with job hunting, applications, practice interviews and assessment centre preparation.
Your academic track record is also factored in.
You have three options for how to spend your year abroad:
To find out more about the Year Abroad, please visit our website.
Teaching takes a number of forms, which may include:
Assessment is varied and will take a number of forms within the programme, typically a combination of written exams and coursework, final-year dissertations, and independent projects.
The Schools offer excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Andrew Smith provides an overview of the unique structure and advantages of our BA Liberal Arts programme.
Hear firsthand from students who have thrived in this diverse and dynamic course environment as they share their personal experiences and achievements.
Our standard contextual offer: BCC at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: CCC at A-Level.
Graduates from Queen Mary's School and the wider Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences go on to work in a wide variety of careers.
Some apply their degree knowledge directly, entering careers such as education and the arts, whilst others transfer skills gained during study into areas such as public relations.
Graduates who have developed specialisations in the wider Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences often find employment in areas such as business, finance, government and the media.
Whichever of these area specialisations you may have chosen, you will develop a wide range of skills and you will cover a wider range of topics and approaches than in a typical single or joint honours degree.
As a student on the BA Liberal Arts programme, you will also improve your abilities to analyse material, present arguments underpinned by evidence, evaluate different views and approaches to a subject, and express yourself effectively both orally and in writing.
You’ll have access to bespoke careers support every step of your degree, including personal academic support from the French and Politics departments.
You’ll benefit from regular careers events for language students, including a workshop for students returning from their year abroad, and a Make Languages Work For You speedmeet with alumni.
Learn more about career support and development at Queen Mary.
Liberal Arts - BA (Hons)
Liberal Arts with Integrated Foundation Year - BA (Hons)
Liberal Arts with Year in Industry - BA (Hons)
Liberal Arts with Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BA (Hons)
Liberal Arts with Year Abroad - BA (Hons)
Liberal Arts with Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BA (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/biomedical-sciences:
Unlock the secrets of the cells, organs and systems in the human body to diagnose illness, treat disease and save lives.
The biomedical sciences hold the answers to understanding health and disease.
Answers that impact individuals, economies and society as a whole.
Studying with us, you ’ ll explore the basics of anatomy, physiology and biochemistry.
At the same time, we ’ ll teach you about molecular biology, immunology, genetics and more.
But your learning will go beyond the lecture theatre.
You ’ ll spend hours in our modern labs, getting hands-on experience with scientific tools.
And you can apply for a placement year where you could sharpen your practical skills in the pharmaceutical industry or join a team in an NHS laboratory.
Everywhere you go you ’ ll hear insightful conversations about research and practice.
Learn from biomedical and biological sciences experts in interactive lectures.
Discover the latest insights into psychology and education.
And benefit from clinical staff sharing their experiences.
The skills you develop will be key when you carry out your final year project and become a researcher in your own right.
In your final year, you can also study specialist areas, including cancer biology, personalised medicine, stem cells and regenerative medicine.
Many of our graduates progress onto medicine, dentistry or research-based careers, and the programme is designed with this in mind.
You can complete your Biomedical Sciences degree in three or four years.
The Foundation Programme
Our Biomedical Sciences BSc with Year in Industry is available to transfer onto providing you achieve a satisfactory academic result in Year 1 and meet other academic requirements*.
During your second year you will identify and apply for an industrial placement opportunity, with one on one support provided by academic staff.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Biomedical Sciences BSc with a Year Abroad.
I have always been interested in the immune system and I was really excited to study clinical microbiology, infectious diseases and immunology.
One standout aspect of my course is the anatomy lab, where I gained invaluable firsthand experience examining human anatomical structures, a very novel and exciting experience for me.
The lecturers for all my modules have always been really approachable regarding any of my doubts and have always been receptive towards feedback given by the cohort.
Each module is assessed by written examinations and coursework (practical reports, essays, problem sheets, online exercises and tests).
Final-year students undertake a project, assessed with a detailed written report and oral presentation.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including Biology and one further science subject from Chemistry, Life and Health Sciences, Maths, Further Maths, Physics or Psychology at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including B in Biology and B in one further science subject from Chemistry, Life and Health Sciences, Maths, Further Maths, Physics or Psychology at A-Level.
Our Biomedical Sciences programme provides an ideal background for studying medicine or dentistry.
Biomedical science graduates are in demand in the pharmaceutical and diagnostics industries.
Many students move into clinical and laboratory work, postgraduate research and science communication.
84 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2020/21).
Recent Biomedical Sciences graduates have been hired by:
Biomedical Sciences - BSc (Hons)
Biomedical Sciences with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2024/materials-science-and-engineering:
Ever wondered how an F1 car can weigh so little?
Or what an artificial heart valve is made of?
If so, this is the degree for you.
Look around you.
Everything you see is manufactured from different materials.
To make the world a better place, we need experts who can improve these materials to boost function while reducing waste and maximising efficiency.
Join us to learn how, as a materials scientist and engineer.
Our materials department was the first in the UK.
Studying with us, you ’ ll learn from a teaching team with extensive research and industrial experience.
Our expertise influences everything, from how Formula 1 tyres are made to the composites used in aeroplanes and suitcases.
We’re home to several journal editors in chief, as well as fellows of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering.
Ready to shape the future?
You ’ ll build a strong foundation in fundamental engineering concepts such as mechanics, design, materials and mathematical modelling.
At the same time, you ’ ll develop the practical skills all engineers need.
Everything you learn will be applied to a design project which addresses one of the key challenges identified by the UK Government – such as an aging society, clean growth and the future of mobility.
By the time you graduate, you ’ ll be prepared to tackle the global issues facing our society.
Materials engineer, research scientist, patent examiner – a degree in materials science and engineering can take you in a range of directions, where you ’ ll have the chance to create big changes.
Our Materials Science and Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by other countries that are signatories to international accords.
You can complete your Materials Science and Engineering degree in three, four or five years.
You'll study a range of core principles including:
Recent projects include: Design and Fabrication of a Futuristic Concept Bike; Smart Cord-Rubber Composites with Integrated Sensing.
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Engineering and Material Sciences, including BEng or MEng Materials Science and Engineering.
Apply for our Materials Science BEng or MEng with Industrial Experience to spend a year on placement, gaining practical experience and building professional contacts.
"Studying Materials Science and Engineering at Queen Mary has vastly changed how I view the world.
Every time I look up, I think about the structures involved in creating the world around us, from the crystallographic arrangements of the metal beams at Westminster Underground Station, to the ceramics used to control the temperature of plane engines at Gatwick.
The course is ever-changing to adapt to the needs of the industry."
You will be taught through a mix of traditional lectures and student-centred approaches, such as problem-solving classes, laboratory practicals and coursework.
Our undergraduate students talk about their experience of studying materials science.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC including BB in two subjects from Maths, Physics and Chemistry at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC including BC in two subjects from Maths, Physics and Chemistry at A-Level.
The CAH3 code for this course is CAH10-03-07.
The materials industry is one of the world’s biggest industrial sectors, and is growing every year.
Graduates can work directly with materials, for example as a Materials Engineer, identifying the best materials for use at all stages of the manufacturing process.
Other potential careers include working as a Metallurgist, Research Scientist, Technical Engineer, Biomedical Engineer, Manufacturing Systems Engineer or Patent Examiner.
Recent Materials Science and Engineering graduates have been hired by:
Materials Science and Engineering - BEng (Hons)
Materials Science with Foundation - BEng (Hons)
Materials Science and Engineering with Industrial Experience - BEng (Hons)
Materials Science and Engineering with Year Abroad - BEng (Hons)
Materials Science and Engineering - MEng (Hons)
Materials Science and Engineering with Industrial Experience - MEng (Hons)
Materials Science and Engineering with Year Abroad - MEng (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/banking-and-finance-with-integrated-pre-masters-msc:
Part of: Economics and Finance
This programme is based in the School of Economics and Finance (SEF) on Queen Mary’s Mile End campus.
School of Economics and Finance Around 1,000 master’s students from all over the world Core modules taught by research-active academics Elective modules taught by finance-industry professionals and professional economists with much practical experience Ranked 4th in the UK for research output in economics and econometrics in the Research Excellence Framework in 2021 in top 50 in the Shanghai Global Ranking for Economics in 2024 in top 100 in the Shanghai Global Ranking for Finance in 2024 (and 9th in UK) in top 100 in the QS World University Rankings for Economics & Econometrics in 2025 competitively relative to Russell Group (group of top research universities in UK) based on PTES (leading survey of postgraduate programmes in UK) Wide range of elective modules as well as professional development modules on programming languages, trading platforms such as Bloomberg, etc.
(see Programme structure ) Student investment fund (QUMMIF) provides practical skills in financial analysis and trading as well as opportunities to network with fellow students, academics, and city professionals Possible to complete the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate (Bloomberg terminals available)
In year 1, you take the modules listed in the dropdown box below.
Year 2 is MSc Banking and Finance .
Commercial and Investment Banking The aim of this module is to develop an understanding of the international financial system and its associated risks given the ever evolving regulatory regime.
On successful completion, students should be able to critically understand, evaluate and question the operations of banks and of non­bank financial institutions, the process of deposit creation, the term structure of interest rates, the supply and demand of loanable funds, and the role of Central Banks.
More importantly students should be competent in the analysis, interpretation and assessment of all facets and aspects of financial risk and its management.
Investment Management This offers a high level introduction to concepts related to investment analysis.
Topics covered include valuation of financial securities; the principles of investment; portfolio analysis and management; financial market equilibrium; the CAPM and APT models; capital budgeting and risk; and market efficiency.
Risk Management for Banking The module is designed to give an insight into the risk management process and how capital is allocated.
We identify the main sources of risk experienced by financial institutions such as credit, market, liquidity, and operational risks.
Methods for quantifying and managing risk are explored in detail with an emphasis on understanding factors affecting Value at Risk (VAR) calculations.
Finally, we see how reporting standards, regulation and innovation have transformed the way financial institutions operate and what can we learn from recent risk management failures.
Applied Corporate Finance In this module we are going to explore how firms finance their activities and the resulting capital structure.
We will consider the circumstances where the choice of the source of funding is irrelevant and those in which the choice of capital structure can affect the firm value, due to tax considerations or informational frictions, for example.
We will then explore how the global environment affects firms' financial policies.
In the final part of the module we will talk about the impact of mergers and acquisitions on the value of the corporations involved.
Dissertation You will study a topic in depth and write up your analysis.
In general, the topic can be either an empirical one (in which case it involves the analysis of data using econometric techniques) or a valuation one (in which case it involves the rigorous valuation of a company or companies).
A list of suggested topics will be provided, but you can also propose your own topic (as long as it aligns with the research interests of the school's academic staff).
You will be assigned a supervisor who can provide you with some guidance, but you will largely work independently.
Practical Valuation Valuation is at the heart of many areas of finance such as value­based investing, mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings.
This course introduces students to company valuation and gives the background to all the tools used in the Excel modelling course (ECOM116) such as free cash flows and present discounted value.
It will introduce a range of valuation tools such as use of multiples and real options.
The course strongly emphasizes practical applications of these valuation tools.
Research Project You will study a topic in some depth and write up your analysis.
Typically, the research project will consist of a literature review.
Applied Econometrics with R This module provides a solid foundation in applied econometric methods tailored to the needs of finance students, equipping them with the essential skills to analyze financial data, make informed decisions, and prepare for more advanced studies in econometrics and finance.
Students will gain hands-on experience using econometric tools, with a practical emphasis on solving real-world financial problems.
Applied Project in Valuation This module provides a practical, hands-on approach to valuation, enabling students to independently apply key valuation techniques to real-world financial data.
Focused on employability, it develops essential skills for careers in corporate finance, investment banking, and asset management.
Unlike other valuation modules, this project emphasises independent work, allowing students to deepen their analytical abilities and apply theoretical knowledge to industry-relevant valuation tasks.
English Language and Study Skills This module encourages student engagement through a blended learning approach, permitting students to demonstrate their independent study skills increasingly to an exit level.
The module provides students with a critical understanding of UK academic culture, and motivates them to develop the linguistic, analytical and argumentative skills necessary to succeed on a postgraduate degree programme in both written and spoken work.
The module introduces how to incorporate evidence successfully into academic text, and raises awareness regarding issues of plagiarism.
Students are exposed to different styles of academic texts within the disciplines of Humanities and Social Sciences, and Finance and Economics, focusing on the development and evaluation of critical argument as well as on linguistic features, such as syntactic and grammatical patterns.
The module assessment is both formative and summative and is flexible enough to allow students to develop ideas around their subject specific areas.
The portfolio incorporates an extended essay which also externalises the writing process effectively.
Students write a series of text responses and demonstrate reading and writing skills to an exit level in two comprehension assessments.
In addition, students are assessed in their ability to lead and engage in academic presentations and discussions, using (where appropriate) an online platform.
Introduction to Econometrics Introduction to Econometrics will introduce the student to regression analysis used in studies that test hypotheses and empirically fit models in economics.
The methods taught in this module are employed in the economics, finance and many social science disciplines.
The level of mathematical treatment is equivalent to that covered on an undergraduate applied econometrics course.
As an applied course we will not dwell upon derivations but focus on using regression analysis.
The module will provide a solid base in applied econometrics, enabling the student to become a competent user of regression analysis.
Topics in Econometrics Topics to Econometrics will extend the student's knowledge of regression analysis to topics in time series, panel data analysis and instrumental variables.
The level of mathematical treatment is equivalent to that covered on an undergraduate advanced applied econometrics course.
The module will provide a solid base in applied econometrics, enabling the student to become a competent user of time series regression analysis.
Economics This module will equip students with the standard methods and analytical tools of microeconomic and macroeconomic theory, with emphasis on the relationship between the decisions of individual agents, the operation of markets and the general state of the economy.
The microeconomics component will analyse the nature of competition a firm faces, the type of industry in which it operates, the prices of its inputs, while the macroeconomics one will focus on growth, inflation, unemployment, fluctuations and crises.
Finance This module will  introduce students to the basic principles of finance and investment.
Finance is essentially about pricing, but the essentials of corporate and international finance will also be covered.
There will be an introduction to the theory of financial markets and their regulation, and a brief look at the concept of market efficiency.
However, most of the focus will be concentrated on the relationship between risk and return, the principles behind portfolio evaluation, the behaviour of asset prices and the role of institutions and trading systems in modern financial markets.
Research Methods in Finance and Economics This module will provide students with the background knowledge and skills needed for the successful completion of a piece of empirical research in the field of Finance & Economics.
Students will learn about the requirements of research at masters level, from learning to read critically, to choosing and selecting literature from the field, to narrowing down a topic area and designing their methodology, to writing a research proposal.
The module is a collaborative module and students will be taught by members of staff from SLLF and from SEF .
Students will be assessed by coursework only, consisting of a research proposal, an annotated bibliography, a reflective task and one complete draft chapter.
Marks will be allocated by tutors in both schools, although more of the assessment weighting will be awarded by SLLF, the host school.
Students will be provided with regular formative feedback on their written work and also on their research design and general interaction with the research process.
Finance and Economics Independent Research Project This module will provide students with the background knowledge and skills needed for the successful completion of a piece of empirical research in the field of Finance & Economics.
Students will build upon skills and knowledge learnt in IFP/IFJ6013 by choosing their conceptual framework, building and testing their model and their writing up their findings in a 5,000 word report.
Students will be assessed by coursework only, consisting of a 5,000 word written report and a 10 minute individual presentation.
Students will be provided with regular formative feedback in the form of tutorials.
Financial Derivatives The purpose of this module is to provide students with an overview of the theory and practice of pricing and hedging derivative securities.
These include forward and futures contracts, swaps, and many different types of options.
This module covers diverse areas of derivatives, such as equity and index derivatives, foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives, as well as interest rate derivatives.
This module also addresses the issue of how to incorporate credit risk into the pricing and risk management of derivatives.
All the relevant concepts are discussed based on the discrete time binomial model and the continuous time Black­Scholes model.
The extensions of the Black­Scholes model are also discussed.
International Finance Foreign exchange is not only the most heavily traded of all financial assets, it has the clearest interface between macroeconomics and finance.
In this module you'll get an introduction to the main theoretical models used to understand FX markets as well as in­depth analysis of how they work in practice.
Topics include: understanding global imbalances, models of exchange rate determination, the structure of the FX market and how trades are priced, FX derivatives markets, foreign exchange intervention and reserves, and currency regimes and crises.
Each week the key lessons of the lecture are illustrated through an analysis of current economic events such as the problems in the Euro­area, China's foreign exchange rate policy and the role of the dollar as a global reserve currency.
We also price and monitor foreign exchange trades suggested by course participants to see how good you are at FX trading!
Behavioural Finance Behavioural finance studies irrationalities in savings and investment decisions as well as puzzles on financial markets.
Some key topics are saving for retirement, insurance, predictability of returns, and bubbles.
Knowledge of behavioural finance provides students with a deeper and more realistic understanding of finance than is offered by the mainstream approach alone.
Such knowledge will hopefully make students less susceptible to common mistakes when they make financial decisions in their personal or professional lives.
Asset Management The purpose of this module is to provide students with a practical introduction to modern portfolio theory and asset pricing, including active portfolio management, portfolio performance evaluation, portfolio insurance, and international portfolio diversification.
On the successful completion of the module students will know how to implement modern portfolio management strategies and will be familiar with the practical aspects of asset valuation.
The course emphasises real world cases and real world investment and hedging strategies.
Bond Market Strategies Bond markets are a critical part of the global financial system.
This module explores global bond markets from a practitioner perspective.
The module is designed to help students learn key bond market mathematics, identify value and understand the key risks.
The module will explore how bond market strategies can be employed to capture value, create portfolios and meet specific investment objectives.
The course also links core material with topical issues in global bond markets, showing students the critical importance of bond markets for the banking system, the wider financial system, the economy and government policymaking.
Applied Wealth Management The module looks at modern wealth management.
Students will study the regulatory framework governing firms and individuals in the wealth management industry.
The various asset classes (such as money markets, bonds, equities, property, hedge funds etc) will be examined and how they can be combined in wealth portfolios.
The utilisation of pensions and insurance solutions will also be discussed as well as the areas of philanthropy and ethical investing.
Credit Ratings This module provides an overview of credit ratings, risk and analysis.
It explains the role of rating agencies and goes though the rating process; how credit ratings are assigned and monitored.
It provides knowledge of both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of credit analysis.
It presents credit rating methodologies and an overview of securitisation and structured finance technology.
The module puts considerable emphasis on practical applications.
It explains how a transaction is put together by an investment bank as an arranger.
Then goes through the steps of how it gets rated by the rating agencies and finally distributed in the markets.
Mergers and Acquisitions This module provides an overview of mergers and acquisitions from the point of view of an industry practitioner who has worked in both M&A advisory (Corporate Finance Advisory) and Merger Arbitrage Trading.
The module explains the role of Corporate Finance practitioners and the modelling tools they use to value companies and advise clients.
The module also explains the role in the markets for traders and portfolio managers at hedge funds and other asset management firms who specialise in trading announced merger transactions and other corporate actions.
Systematic Trading Strategies The use of systems for trading and investing has grown exponentially over the last twenty years, gradually replacing the discretionary judgement of human beings.
This course will help students understand why systems have become so important in financial markets, and provide an overview of key concepts needed to understand and develop strategies for systematic trading and investing.
China and Global Financial Markets China's financial markets and institutions operate in ways that differ significantly from those in other major economies such as the US and Euro­area.
Despite the importance of the Chinese economy, these unique features of its financial industry are not covered in standard finance courses ­thus this module aims to fill that gap.
This course is aimed at providing the students with an understanding of i) how financial markets and institutions operate in China, ii) how China interacts with global financial markets.
Real Estate Finance Residential and commercial real estate is fundamental to bank lending and has become increasingly important as an asset class for investment banks and hedge funds.
Its role at the centre of the financial system was highlighted by the 2008­09 financial crisis where problems in that sector led to the largest global recession since the great depression.
This module aims to provide students with concepts and techniques for analysing real estate investment and financing decisions.
The module covers mortgages and debt securitisation (secondary mortgages and mortgage­backed securities like CDO's), real estate investment appraisal and risk assessment, financial leverage in real estate, and alternative financing and investment vehicles, such as real estate investment trusts (REITs).
Cases in Corporate Finance Cases in business finance is an innovative module based on case method teaching.
The module aims to foster the ability to write a structured financial analysis of a business within the context of its market(s) of operation.
In terms of learning process, the module makes use of real cases, including, for example, Apple and Boeing vs.
Airbus.
Private Equity and Venture Capital This practical module will provide a deep insight into the landscape and practices in private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC).
The course will combine sound academic theory with practice and will incorporate a PEVC ecosystem analysis, a review of the main fund and deal lifecycle processes, practical exercises in the art and science of valuation, growth strategies in portfolio management, a 360o pitching simulation (both as an investor and investee) and a review of the latest trends and complexities in the world of fund management, start-ups, scale ups, "unicorns" and PE leveraged buyouts.
Further Topics in Valuation Private equity is a relevant source of capital for companies.
This course explores the private equity cycle: (i) fundraising and structure, (ii) investing and (iii) exit.
As valuation plays a crucial role in thie cycle, the course starts with valuation techniques: from traditional methods such as DCF to more recent methodologies as real options.
Strong emphasis is given to practical applications: a DCF model for a target company will be developed in-class and a real world of case of Private Equity transaction will be exposed.
Fintech The juncture of mobile apps and retail financial services has disrupted the money, personal finance, and financial institutions.
The digital identity and digital money are pillars supporting new business models in finance, including open banking, robo-advisors, smart contracts and many others.
Fintech technologies, value propositions, best practices and regulation are illustrated by many examples of start-ups to enable practical, critical and creative thinking about business and investment opportunities from perspective of a small investor, a business analyst or an entrepreneur.
Machine Learning for Finance The aim of this module is to explore commonly used machine learning methods in economics and finance.
The majority of methods currently available are inherently statistical and so there is a strong emphasis placed on probability and statistics in terms of foundation.
Practical application of methods is undertaken using R, although the course does touch on Python use as well.
Students are free to use R, Python or other reputable scientific software for assignments.
Climate Finance Climate Risk is becoming increasingly important in financial markets not just as a new risk factor but also as an important element of ESG investing and as a source of new financial markets (e.g.
emissions trading and green bonds).
This course aims to identify they key elements of climate change risk and how it influences finance.
ESG Investing Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) based investment policies have become increasingly important in financial decision making over recent year.
ESG implies an entirely different type of investment analysis from traditional finance and raise important questions about fiduciary duty, externalities and disclosures.
This module introduces students to ESG investing and the issues it raises.
Financial Statement Analysis The module teaches students how to analyse financial statements.
Students learn about the basic structure of and the various items in balance sheets, profit & loss statements, and cash flow statements.
Key financial indicators (related to leverage, different notions of profit, etc.) are introduced.
The module emphasises the perspective of the user of financial statements rather than that of accountants and auditors.
Blockchain Economics and Financial Market Innovation Blockchain technologies have triggered a fundamental change to the nature of money, payments, and liquidity, ultimately transforming the core of financial markets.
It is one of the most disruptive technologies available at present, designed to simplify the value chains around trading, payment and market infrastructure.
If fully adopted, blockchain will create a more efficient, more transparent and more secure marketplace whilst reducing transaction processing costs.
Its applications span from banks to logistics to ecommerce, and the pace of change is likely to accelerate even more as new technologies such as AI become more prevalent.
The course will couple theoretical lectures with practical coding applications and case studies on emerging topics in DeFi and FinTech with a focus on the impact of Blockchain technology on financial markets, trading, and investments.
Large Language Models and Textual Analysis in Finance Exploring the intersection of finance and cutting-edge AI, this course delves into Large Language Models (LLMs) and their transformative role in financial analysis and decision-making.
Students will engage with the latest advancements in textual analysis, learning to extract and interpret complex insights from vast datasets of unstructured text.
Practical applications covered include market sentiment analysis, risk assessment, and automated report generation.
This module blends theoretical knowledge with hands-on experience, preparing students for innovative careers in finance, where AI meets financial analysis.
Applied Portfolio Construction This module will looks into the major asset classes and how these are combined to form investment portfolios.
The different asset allocation strategies are also examined along with the ways to measure and attribute portfolio performance.
Furthermore, portfolio specific issues such as ethical investing and behavioural finance are also studied.
The course shows how financial products are used in modern day banking.
Financial Data Analytics This module will provide students with a general understanding of current applications of Data Analytics to the Finance and in particular to derivatives and investment banking.
It will revolve around problems that will be explained as part of the module delivery such as volatility surface management, yield curve evolution and FX volatility/correlation management.
It will provide students with a overview of some standard tools in the field such as Python, R, Excel/VBA and the Power BI Excel functionality.
Students are not expected to have any familiarity with coding or any of the topics above as the module will develop these from scratch.
It will provide students with the understanding of a field necessary to boost their careers in finance in roles such as trading, structuring, management, risk management and quantitative positions in investment banks and hedge funds.
Optional, short, non-credit-bearing modules that typically run for a few weeks at various points during the year and focus on practical skills such as programming or working with trading software.
More information about Professional Skills Development .
Amplify Trading
Amplify Trading is a professional trading firm based in London.
As well as a trading floor in The City, Amplify Trading have developed unique software to develop and assess new traders whilst making decisions within the uncertainty of live financial markets.
More details about Amplify Trading
Applied Portfolio Management
The aim of this course is to discuss modern investment theory, its central concepts, and practical applications.
The purpose is to show the application of finance theory in making portfolio management decisions, with some emphasis on individual portfolio decision-making.
More details about Applied Portfolio Management
C++ for Finance
Students will learn the fundamentals of C++ with applications from quantitative finance and algorithmic trading.
The course does not assume any previous knowledge of C++.
More details about C++ for Finance
Finance Trading Programme
FTP provides a working theoretical knowledge and a practical understanding of financial markets, trading strategies, risk and money management and trader analytics at the highest level.
More details about Finance Trading Programme
Matlab
MATLAB, a high-level language and interactive environment, is used for numerical computation, visualisation, and programming.
More details about Matlab
Python for Finance, Investing and Trading
The focus of the course is on working with Python to analyse financial markets.
The course begins with an introduction to Python and the general syntax of the language
More details about Python for Finance, Investing and Trading
VBA for Finance
The course will teach students VBA in Excel with applications to finance.
The course does not assume any previous knowledge of coding or Excel
More details about VBA for Finance
Wide range of careers in financial sector, especially in risk management and regulation in commercial banks, investment banks, and supervisory financial institutions (e.g.
central banks)
We offer extensive careers support services (one-on-one appointments, practice interviews, careers workshops, etc.) to MSc students during their studies and for 3 years after graduation.
Job placement statistics for graduates from the MSc programmes at the School of Economics and Finance are available here .
September 2025 | 24 months
Home: Not applicable Overseas: £2000 Information about deposits
Overseas: £2000 Information about deposits
January 2026 | 20 months
Our Scholarships and funding page provides information about
Degree
Diploma of Higher Education
Afghanistan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Master Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90%; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 80%; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70%; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Albania We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7 out of 10
Algeria We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licence; Diplome de [subject area]; Diplome d'Etudes Superieures; Diplome de Docteur end Pharmacie; or Diplome de Docteur en Medecine from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 16 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 14 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 12 out of 20
Angola We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Grau de Licenciado/a (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 17 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 15 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 13 out of 20
Argentina We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo/ Grado de Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6.5 out of 10
Armenia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 87 out of 100 UK 2:1 degree: 75 out of 100 UK 2:2 degree: 61 out of 100
Australia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) or Bachelor Honours degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: High Distinction; or First Class with Honours UK 2:1 degree: Distinction; or Upper Second Class with Honours UK 2:2 degree: Credit; or Lower Second Class with Honours
Austria We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 1.5 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: 2.5 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out of 5.0
The above relates to grading scale where 1 is the highest and 5 is the lowest.
Azerbaijan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90%; or GPA 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 80%; or GPA 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 70%; or GPA 3.5 out of 5
Bahamas We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from the University of West Indies.
UK 1st class degree: First Class Honours UK 2:1 degree: Upper Second Class Honours UK 2:2 degree: Lower Second Class Honours
Bahrain We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or 90 out of 100 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0; or 80 out of 100 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.3 out of 4.0; or 74 out of 100
Bangladesh We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.2 to 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 to 3.3 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.3 to 2.7 out of 4.0
Offer conditions will vary depending on the institution you are applying from.
For some institutions/degrees we will ask for different grades to above, so this is only a guide.
Barbados We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from the University of West Indies, Cave Hill or Barbados Community College.
UK 1st class degree: First Class Honours*; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0** UK 2:1 degree: Upper Second Class Honours*; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0** UK 2:2 degree: Lower Second Class Honours*; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0**
*relates to: the University of West Indies, Cave Hill.
**relates to: Barbados Community College.
Belarus We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9 out of 10; or 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 7 out of 10; or 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 5 out of 10; or 3.5 out of 5
Belgium We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 80% or 16/20*; or 78%** UK 2:1 degree: 70% or 14/20*; or 72%** UK 2:2 degree: 60% or 12/20*; or 65%**
*Flanders (Dutch-speaking)/ Wallonia (French-speaking) **German-speaking
Belize We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from the University of West Indies.
Benin We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Maitrise or Masters from a recognised institution.
Bolivia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Bachiller Universitario or Licenciado / Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85%* or 80%** UK 2:1 degree: 75%* or 70%** UK 2:2 degree: 65%* or 60%**
*relates to: Titulo de Bachiller Universitario
**relates to: Licenciado / Titulo de [subject area]
Bosnia and Herzegovina We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7.5 out of 10
Botswana We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 5 years) or Master Degree from the University of Botswana.
UK 1st class degree: 80% UK 2:1 degree: 70% UK 2:2 degree: 60%
Brazil We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Título de Bacharel / Título de [subject area] or Título de Licenciado/a (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8.25 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6.5 out of 10
The above grades assumes that the grading scale has a pass mark of 5.
Brunei We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours degree from a recognised institution.
Bulgaria We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 5.75 out of 6.0 UK 2:1 degree: 4.75 out of 6.0 UK 2:2 degree: 4.0 out of 6.0
Burundi We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85%; or 16 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 75%; or 14 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 60%; or 12 out of 20
Cambodia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 80%; or GPA 3.5 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 70%; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 60%; or GPA 2.35 out of 4.0
Cameroon We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree; Licence; Diplome d'Etudes Superieures de Commerce; Diplome d'Ingenieur de Conception/ Travaux; Doctorat en Medecine/ Pharmacie; or Maitrise or Master 1 from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 16 out of 20; or GPA 3.6 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 14 out of 20; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 12 out of 20; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Canada We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Bachelor Honours Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.6 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.2 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Chile We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Grado de Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo (Professional) de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 6.5 out of 7 UK 2:1 degree: 5.5 out of 7 UK 2:2 degree: 5 out of 7
China We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 85 to 95% UK 2:1 degree: 75 to 85% UK 2:2 degree: 70 to 80%
Colombia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.60 out of 5.00 UK 2:1 degree: 4.00 out of 5.00 UK 2:2 degree: 3.50 out of 5.00
Congo, Dem.
Rep.
of We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies or Diplome d'Etudes Speciales from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 16 out of 20; or 90% UK 2:1 degree: 14 out of 20; or 80% UK 2:2 degree: 12 out of 20; or 70%
Congo, Rep.
of We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diplome d'Etudes Superieures or Maitrise from a recognised institution.
Costa Rica We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachiller or Licenciado from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7.5 out of 10
Croatia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Advanced Diploma of Higher Education Level VII/1 (Diploma - Visoko obrazovanje) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.5 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 3 out of 5
Cuba We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado/ Arquitecto/ Doctor/ Ingeniero from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out of 5
Cyprus We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8 out of 10; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 7.0 out of 10; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 6.0 out of 10; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Czech Republic We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 1.2 out of 4 UK 2:1 degree: 1.5 out of 4 UK 2:2 degree: 2.5 out of 4
The above relates to grading scale where 1 is the highest and 4 is the lowest.
Denmark We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 12 out of 12 (2007 onwards); or 11 out of 13 (before 2007) UK 2:1 degree: 7 out of 12 (2007 onwards); or 8 out of 13 (before 2007) UK 2:2 degree: 4 out of 12 (2007 onwards); or 7 out of 13 (before 2007)
Dominican Republic We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 95/100 UK 2:1 degree: 85/100 UK 2:2 degree: 78/100
Ecuador We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado / Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90%; or 9/10; or 19/20; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 80%; or 8/10; or 18/20; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70%; or 7/10; or 14/20; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Egypt We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 85%; or GPA 3.7 out of 4 UK 2:1 degree: 75%; or GPA 3.0 out of 4 UK 2:2 degree: 65%; or GPA 2.5 out of 4
El Salvador We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 5 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6.5 out of 10
Eritrea We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Estonia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree; University Specialist's Diploma; or Professional Higher Education Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.5 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 3.5 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 2 out of 5
The above grades assumes that 1 is the pass mark.
Eswatini We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
Ethiopia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Fiji We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from one of the following institutions: Fiji National University, the University of Fiji, or the University of South Pacific, Fiji.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.0 out of 5.0*; or overall grade A with High Distinction pass**; or GPA 4.0 out of 4.5*** UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.33 out of 5.0*; or overall grade B with Credit pass**; or GPA 3.5 out of 4.5*** UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.33 out of 5.0*; or overall grade S (Satisfactory)**; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.5***
*relates to Fiji National University
**relate to the University of Fiji
***relates to the University of South Pacific, Fiji
Finland We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree/ Kandidaatti/ Kandidat (minimum 180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution; or Bachelor degree (Ammattikorkeakoulututkinto/ Yrkeshögskoleexamen) from a recognised University of Applied Sciences.
UK 1st class degree: 4.5 out of 5; or 2.8 out of 3 UK 2:1 degree: 3.5 out of 5; or 2 out of 3 UK 2:2 degree: 2.5 out of 5; or 1.4 out of 3
France We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licence; Grade de Licence; Diplome d'Ingenieur; or Maitrise from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 14 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 12 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 11 out of 20
Gambia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 80%; or GPA 4.0 out of 4.3 UK 2:1 degree: 67%; or GPA 3.3 out of 4.3 UK 2:2 degree: 60%; or GPA 2.7 out of 4.3
Georgia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 91 out of 100; or 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 81 out of 100; or 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 71 out of 100; or 3.5 out of 5
Germany We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
Ghana We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: First Class UK 2:1 degree: Second Class (Upper Division) UK 2:2 degree: Second Class (Lower Division)
Greece We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Degrees from recognised selected institutions in the University sector or Degrees (awarded after 2003) from recognised Technological Educational Institutes.
UK 1st class degree: 8 out of 10*; or 9 out of 10** UK 2:1 degree: 7 out of 10*; or 7.5 out of 10** UK 2:2 degree: 6 out of 10*; or 6.8 out of 10**
*Relates to degrees from the University Sector.
**Relates to degrees from Technological Educational Institutes.
Grenada We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from the University of West Indies.
Guatemala We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado / Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90% UK 2:1 degree: 80% UK 2:2 degree: 70%
The above grades assumes that the pass mark is 61% or less.
Guinea We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Master; Maitrise; Diplome d'Etudes Superieures; or Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies from a recognised institution.
Guyana We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Graduate Diploma (Postgraduate) or Masters degree from a recognised institution.
Honduras We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado/a / Grado Academico de Licenciatura (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90%; or 4.7 out of 5; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 80%; or 4.0 out of 5; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70%; or 3.5 out of 5; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Hong Kong We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours Degree from selected institutions.
Hungary We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor degree (Alapfokozat) or University Diploma (Egyetemi Oklevel) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.75 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out of 5
Iceland We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor degree (Baccalaureus or Bakkalarprof) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8.25 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7.25 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6.5 out of 10
India We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 75% to 80% UK 2:1 degree: 60% to 70% UK 2:2 degree: 50% to 60%
For India, offers may be made on the GPA scale.
We do not consider the Bachelor of Vocation (B.
Voc.) for Masters entry.
Indonesia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Sarjna I (S1) Bachelor Degree or Diploma IV (D4) (minimum 4 years) from selected degree programmes and institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.6 to 3.8 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 to 3.2 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.67 to 2.8 out of 4.0
Offer conditions will vary depending on the institution you are applying from and the degree that you study.
Iran We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 17.5 to 18.5 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 15 to 16 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 13.5 to 14 out of 20
Iraq We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85 out of 100 UK 2:1 degree: 75 out of 100 UK 2:2 degree: 60 out of 100
Ireland We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Honours Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: First Class Honours UK 2:1 degree: Second Class Honours Grade I UK 2:2 degree: Second Class Honours Grade II
Israel We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90% UK 2:1 degree: 80% UK 2:2 degree: 65%
Italy We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Laurea (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 110 out of 110 UK 2:1 degree: 105 out of 110 UK 2:2 degree: 94 out of 110
Cote D’ivoire (Ivory Coast) We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diplome d'Ingenieur; Doctorat en Medicine; Maitrise; Master; Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies; or Diplome d'Etudes Superieures Specialisees from selected institutions.
Jamaica We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from the University of West Indies (UWI) or a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or First Class Honours from the UWI UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0; or Upper Second Class Honours from the UWI UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.4 out of 4.0; or Lower Second Class Honours from the UWI
Japan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: S overall* or A overall**; or 90%; or GPA 3.70 out of 4.00 UK 2:1 degree: A overall* or B overall**; or 80%; or GPA 3.00 out of 4.00 UK 2:2 degree: B overall* or C overall**; or 70%; or GPA 2.3 out of 4.00
*Overall mark is from the grading scale: S, A, B, C (S is highest mark) **Overall mark is from the grading scale: A, B, C, D (A is highest mark)
Jordan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85%; or GPA of 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 75%; or GPA of 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70%; or GPA of 2.5 out of 4.0
Kazakhstan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 3.8 out of 4.0/4.33; or 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 3.33 out of 4.0/4.33; or 4.0 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 2.67 out of 4.0/4.33; or 3.5 out of 5
Kenya We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: First Class Honours; or GPA 3.6 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: Second Class Honours Upper Division; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: Second Class Honours Lower Division; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Kosovo We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
Kuwait We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.67 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.67 out of 4.0
Kyrgyzstan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.7 out of 5; or GPA 3.7 out of 4 UK 2:1 degree: 4.0 out of 5; or GPA 3.0 out of 4 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out of 5; or GPA 2.4 out of 4
Laos We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
Latvia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (awarded after 2002) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6 out of 10
Lebanon We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree; Licence; or Maitrise from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90% or Grade A; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or 16 out of 20 (French system) UK 2:1 degree: 80% or Grade B; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0; or 13 out of 20 (French system) UK 2:2 degree: 70% or Grade C; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.0; or 12 out of 20 (French system)
Lesotho We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours Degree (minimum 5 years total HE study); Masters Degree or Postgraduate Diploma from selected institutions.
Liberia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90% or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 80% or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70% or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Libya We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 85%; or 3.7 out of 4.0 GPA UK 2:1 degree: 75%; or 3.0 out of 4.0 GPA UK 2:2 degree: 65%; or 2.6 out of 4.0 GPA
Liechtenstein We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 5.6 out of 6.0 UK 2:1 degree: 5.0 out of 6.0 UK 2:2 degree: 4.4 out of 6.0
Lithuania We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
Luxembourg We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
Macau We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (Licenciatura) (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
Macedonia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diploma of Completed Higher Education - Level VII/1 or Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7 out of 10
Madagascar We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Maîtrise; Diplome d'Ingenieur; Diplôme d'Etat de Docteur en Médecine; Diplôme d’Etat de Docteur en Chirurgie Dentaire; Diplôme d'Études Approfondies; Diplôme de Magistère (Première Partie) – also known as Master 1; or Diplôme de Master – also known as Master 2 from a recognised institution.
Malawi We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 80% or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 70% or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 60% or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Malaysia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: Class 1; or 3.7 out of 4.0 CGPA UK 2:1 degree: Class 2 division 1; or 3.0 out of 4.0 CGPA UK 2:2 degree: Class 2 division 2; or 2.6 out of 4.0 CGPA
Maldives We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (awarded from 2000) from the Maldives National University.
Malta We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Bachelor Honours Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: First Class Honours; or Category I UK 2:1 degree: Upper Second Class Honours; or Category IIA UK 2:2 degree: Lower Second Class Honours; or Category IIB
Mauritius We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: Class I; or 70% UK 2:1 degree: Class II division I; or 60% UK 2:2 degree: Class II division II; or 50%
Offer conditions will vary depending on the grading scale used by your institution.
Mexico We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado/ Titulo (Profesional) de [subject area]  from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.0 to 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8.0 to 8.5 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7.0 to 7.5 out of 10
Offer conditions will vary depending on the grading scale your institution uses.
Moldova We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (Diploma de Licenta) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.5 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6.5 out of 10
Monaco We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
Mongolia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.6 out of 4.0; or 90%; or grade A UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.2 out of 4.0; or 80%; or grade B UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.8 out of 4.0; or 70%; or grade C
Montenegro We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diploma of Completed Academic Undergraduate Studies; Diploma of Professional Undergraduate Studies; or Advanced Diploma of Higher Education from a recognised institution.
Morocco We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Diplome d'Ecoles Nationales de Commerce et de Gestion; Diplome de Docteur Veterinaire; Doctorat en Medecine; Docteur en Medecine Dentaire; Licence; Diplome d'Inegeniuer d'Etat; Diplome de Doctorat en Pharmacie; or Maitrise from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 16 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 13 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 11 out of 20
Mozambique We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Grau de Licenciado (minimum 4 years) or Grau de Mestre from a recognised institution.
Myanmar We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 80% or GPA of 4.7 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: 70% or GPA of 4.0 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: 60% or GPA of 3.5 out of 5.0
Namibia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours Degree or Professional Bachelor Degree (NQF level 8 qualifications) - these to be awarded after 2008 from a recognised institution.
Nepal We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 80%; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 65%; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 55%; or GPA of 2.4 out of 4.0
Bachelor in Nursing Science are not considered equivalent to UK Bachelor degrees.
Netherlands We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 7 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 6 out of 10
New Zealand We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) or Bachelor Honours Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: A-*; or First Class Honours** UK 2:1 degree: B*; or Second Class (Division 1) Honours** UK 2:2 degree: C+*; or Second Class (Division 2) Honours**
*from a Bachelor degree **from a Bachelor Honours degree
Nigeria We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.50 out of 5.00; or GPA 6.0 out of 7.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.50 out of 5.00; or GPA 4.6 out of 7.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.80 out of 5.00; or GPA 3.0 out of 7.0
Norway We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: Overall B grade with at least 75 ECTS (of 180 ECTS min overall) at grade A or above.
UK 2:1 degree: Overall B grade UK 2:2 degree: Overall C grade
Oman We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
Pakistan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.0 to 3.8 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 2.6 to 3.6 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.0 to 3.0 out of 4.0
Palestine, State of We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
Panama We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado / Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 91% UK 2:1 degree: 81% UK 2:2 degree: 71%
Papua New Guinea We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: Class I UK 2:1 degree: Class II, division A UK 2:2 degree: Class II, division B
Paraguay We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado / Titulo de [professional title] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 4 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out fo 5
Peru We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Grado Academico de Bachiller or Titulo de Licenciado/ Titulo (Professional) de [subject area] from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 17 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 14 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 12 out of 20
Philippines We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions or Juris Doctor; Bachelor of Laws; Doctor of Medicine; Doctor of Dentistry/ Optometry/ Veterinary Medicine; or Masters Degree from recognised institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 3.6 out of 4.0; or 94%; or 1.25 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 3.0 out of 4.0; or 86%; or 1.75 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 2.5 out of 4.0; or 80%; or 2.5 out of 5
The above 'out of 5' scale assumes 1 is highest mark and 3 is the pass mark.
Poland We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licencjat or Inzynier (minimum 3 years) - these must be awarded after 2001 from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.8 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: 4.5 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: 3.8 out of 5.0
The above grades are based on the 2 to 5 scale, where 3 is the pass mark and 5 is the highest mark.
Portugal We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licenciado (minimum 180 ECTS credits) or Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) from a recognised institution.
Puerto Rico We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90/100 or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 80/100 or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 70/100 or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Qatar We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or GPA 4.4 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0; or GPA 3.6 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.4 out of 4.0; or GPA 2.8 out of 5.0
Romania We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9.75 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8.0 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7.0 out of 10
Russia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 4.0 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 3.5 out of 5
Rwanda We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours Degree (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85%; or 17 out of 20 UK 2:1 degree: 70%; or 15 out of 20 UK 2:2 degree: 60%; or 13 out of 20
Saudi Arabia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.75 out of 5.0; or GPA 3.75 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.75 out of 5.0; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 5.0; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Senegal We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Maîtrise; Master II; Diplôme d'Études Approfondies (DEA); Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Specialisées (DESS); Diplôme d'État de Docteur en Médecine; Diplôme d'Ingénieur; Diplôme de Docteur en Chirurgie Dentaire; or Diplôme de Pharmacien from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 16/20 UK 2:1 degree: 14/20 UK 2:2 degree: 12/20
Serbia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Advanced Diploma of Higher Education from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 9 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 8 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 7 out of 10
Sierra Leone We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (Honours) or a Masters degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: First Class honours; or GPA 4.7 out of 5; or GPA 3.75 out of 4 UK 2:1 degree: Upper Second Class honours; or GPA 4 out of 5; or GPA 3.25 out of 4 UK 2:2 degree: Lower Second Class Honours; or GPA 3.4 out of 5; or GPA 2.75 out of 4
Singapore We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) or Bachelor Honours degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.3 out of 5.0; or GPA 3.6 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.8 out of 5.0; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 3.3 out of 5.0; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Slovakia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (180 ECTS credits) (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 93%; or 1 overall (on 1 to 4 scale, where 1 is highest mark) UK 2:1 degree: 86%; or 1.5 overall (on 1 to 4 scale, where 1 is highest mark) UK 2:2 degree: 72%; or 2.5 overall (on 1 to 4 scale, where 1 is highest mark)
Slovenia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Univerzitetni Diplomant (180 ECTS credits) (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
Somalia Bachelor degrees from Somalia are not considered for direct entry to our postgraduate taught programmes.
Holders of Bachelor degrees from Somali National University can be considered for our Pre-Masters programmes on a case by case basis.
South Africa We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: NQF Level 8 qualifications such as Bachelor Honours degrees or Professional Bachelor degrees from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 75% UK 2:1 degree: 70% UK 2:2 degree: 60%
South Korea We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.2 out of 4.5; or GPA 4.0 out of 4.3; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.5 out of 4.5; or GPA 3.3 out of 4.3; or GPA 3.2 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.5; or GPA 2.8 out of 4.3; or GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Spain We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo Universitario Oficial de Graduado en [subject area] (Grado) or Titulo Universitario Oficial de Licenciado en [subject area] (Licenciatura) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8.0 out of 10; or 2.5 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 7.0 out of 10; or 2.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 6.0 out of 10; or 1.5 out of 4.0
Sri Lanka We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (Special or Honours) or Bachelor Degree (Professional) (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.5 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Sudan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Honours degree from a recognised institution or Bachelor degree in one of the following Professional subjects: Architecture; Dentistry; Engineering; Medicine/Surgery from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 80% UK 2:1 degree: 65% UK 2:2 degree: 60%
Sweden We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (Kandidatexamen) or Professional Bachelor Degree (Yrkesexamenfrom) (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: Overall B grade with at least 75 ECTS at grade A or above (180 ECTS minimum overall); or at least 65% of credits graded at VG overall UK 2:1 degree: Overall B grade (180 ECTS minimum overall); or at least 50% of credits graded at VG overall UK 2:2 degree: Overall C grade (180 ECTS minimum overall); or at least 20% of credits graded at VG overall.
Switzerland We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor degree (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 5.5 out of 6; or 9 out of 10 UK 2:1 degree: 5 out of 6; or 8 out of 10 UK 2:2 degree: 4.25 out of 6; or 7 out of 10
Syria We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 85% UK 2:1 degree: 75% UK 2:2 degree: 65%
Taiwan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from selected institutions.
UK 1st class degree: 85 to 90% UK 2:1 degree: 70 to 75% UK 2:2 degree: 65 to 70%
Tajikistan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Specialist Diploma or Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
Tanzania We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.4 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.5 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.7 out of 5.0
Thailand We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.40 to 3.60 out of 4.00 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.00 to 3.20 out of 4.00 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.40 to 2.60 out of 4.00
Trinidad and Tobago We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or First Class Honours from the University of West Indies UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 4.0; or Upper Second Class Honours from the University of West Indies UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.4 out of 4.0; or Lower Second Class Honours from the University of West Indies
Tunisia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Licence; Diplome National d'Architecture; Maitrise; Diplome National d'Ingeniuer; or Doctorat en Medecine / Veterinaire from a recognised institution.
Turkey We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.40 to 3.60 out of 4.00 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 2.80 to 3.00 out of 4.00 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.30 to 2.50 out of 4.00
Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.60 out of 4.00 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.00 out of 4.00 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.50 out of 4.00
Turkmenistan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Diploma of Higher Education (awarded after 2007) from a recognised institution.
Turks and Caicos Islands We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (accredited by the Council of Community Colleges of Jamaica) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0; or 80% UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.3 out of 4.0; or 75% UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.7 out of 4.0; or 65%
Uganda We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 3 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 4.4 out of 5.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 4.0 out of 5.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 3.0 out of 5.0
Ukraine We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 10 out of 12; or 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 8 out of 12; or 4.0 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 6 out of 12; or 3.5 out of 5
United Arab Emirates We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
United States of America We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: GPA 3.2 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: GPA 2.5 out of 4.0
Uruguay We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 10 to 11 out of 12 UK 2:1 degree: 7 to 9 out of 12 UK 2:2 degree: 6 to 7 out of 12
Uzbekistan We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 90%; or 4.7 out of 5 UK 2:1 degree: 80%; or 4.0 out of 5 UK 2:2 degree: 71%; or 3.5 out of 5
Venezuela We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Titulo de Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 81% UK 2:1 degree: 71% UK 2:2 degree: 61%
Non-percentage grading scales, for example scales out of 20, 10, 9 or 5, will have different requirements.
Vietnam We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 8.0 out of 10; or GPA 3.4 out of 4 UK 2:1 degree: 7.0 out of 10; or GPA 3.0 out of 4 UK 2:2 degree: 5.7 out of 10; or GPA 2.4 out of 4
Yemen We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters (Majister) degree from a recognised institution.
Bachelor Degrees from Lebanese International University (in Yemen) can be considered for entry to postgraduate taught programmes - please see Lebanon for guidance on grade requirements for this.
Zambia We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Masters Degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 75%; or GPA 3.7 out of 4.0 UK 2:1 degree: 65%; or GPA 3.0 out of 4.0 UK 2:2 degree: 55%; or GPA 2.4 out of 4.0
Zimbabwe We normally consider the following qualifications for entry to our postgraduate taught programmes: Bachelor Degree (minimum 4 years) or Bachelor Honours degree from a recognised institution.
UK 1st class degree: 75% UK 2:1 degree: 65% UK 2:2 degree: 60%
The English language requirements for our programmes are indicated by English bands.
The English Language requirements for entry to this programme falls within the following English band:
Band 2: IELTS (Academic) minimum score 5.5 overall with 5.5 in each of Writing, Listening, Reading and Speaking
Find out how to apply for a student visa .
Required supporting documentation:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/investment-and-finance-with-integrated-pre-masters-msc:
Apply
Year 2 is MSc Investment and Finance .
Valuation Valuation is at the heart of many areas of finance such as value­based investing, mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings.
This course introduces students to company valuation.
Starting with the estimation and forecasting of free cash flows it shows students how to value a company as the present discounted value of its future cash flows.
It will also introduces other valuation tools such as use of multiples and real options.
Asset Pricing, Trading, and Portfolio Construction This module introduces students to key principles in asset pricing, financial trading, and portfolio construction.
Key topics: 
1) Risk, return, and optimal portfolios
2) Asset pricing theories, risk premia
3) Tests of asset pricing theories
4) Fixed Income markets and the term structure of interest rates
5) Derivatives
Quantitative Methods in R This module provides a solid foundation in applied econometric methods tailored to the needs of finance students, equipping them with the essential skills to analyse financial data, make informed decisions, and prepare for more advanced studies in econometrics and finance.
Wide range of careers in financial sector, especially as analyst/trader/portfolio manager in investment banks, hedge funds, and pension funds.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/management-with-integrated-pre-masters-msc:
Part of: Business and Management
Our two-year Management MSc with Integrated Graduate Diploma combines a bespoke one-year pre-masters programme with a one-year postgraduate degree.
Specific progression requirements must be met between year 1 and 2.
The programme equips students to manage key areas of business: market analysis, consumers, finance, operations, IT and strategy.
The pre-masters programme is suitable for students who wish to change academic direction, or who have not met the criteria for direct entry onto their chosen masters programme.
The pre-masters provides academic and English language preparation, and will help you to deepen your knowledge of business and management.
Students will receive an introduction to topics in business and management and explore some contemporary issues in this field.
They will choose one elective from: politics, film or a language (where available).
(4 classroom hours per week per subject)
They will also undertake an intensive programme in academic English and research skills in order to attain the levels required at Masters level.
(12-14 hours per week)
Upon successful completion of the Pre-Masters programme, you will be required to meet specific progression requirements before progressing onto the second year of this programme.
*This grade percentage applies to semester 2 modules although at least a pass of 40% must be attained in semester 1 modules for progression.
The Management MSc degree programme aims to teach you to:
This module will provide an in-depth understanding of the broad range of theory, research, and practice in organisational behaviour for the adoption of appropriate policies and leadership styles.
This will include understanding individual differences, motivational factors, and group dynamics which can mediate the functioning of an organisation.
The module will analyse a range of case studies to illuminate the different work patterns, practices and behaviours both at individual, group and organisational levels.
BUSM086 explores theoretical approaches explaining what markets managers choose to compete within, why and how.
'Traditional' competitive positioning, resource-based views are critically evaluated for their appropriateness in an increasingly networked, globalised, digitised and fluid environment.
Contemporary approaches to strategic management, such as the importance of strategy process, business ecosystems, behavioural approaches and time/timing are analysed.
From a variety of organisational contexts, we assess the extent to which firm strategy models may be applied to public sector/voluntary/entrepreneurial types of organisations and firms.
The dissertation forms an important part of the assessment of the MSc Management Programme, carrying a weighting of four modules (60 credits), i.e., one third of the entire Programme.
The dissertation requires a demonstration of ability to carry out an original investigation into an area of interest.
As such, the process should reflect skills of formulating research questions, synthesising and analysing data, drawing insights and conclusions, and written communication.
The module provides insights into how accounting is embedded in a socio-economic context and how accounting is shaped by this context.
Key concepts and methods of accounting are discussed by focusing on the reporting of the financial position and financial performance of business organisations, the analysis of the financial statements produced by business organisations and the use of accounting information by management for planning, decision making and control purposes.
This new module seeks to offer students a more comprehensive and contextual understanding of risk and crisis, including economic, social, technological, environmental, and geopolitical risk, inter alia, situating it within a broader set of institutions such as firms, corporations, NGOs, states, international organisations, etc., in order to make sense of what is specific about the causes, evolutions, and responses to risk in a capitalist political economy.
This is also meant to address risk beyond the mere presentist purview of corporate management practices, insofar as students in the MSc Management may both i) work in a broad range of institutions, and ii) will have to understand and engage in their professional lives with a variety of emerging risks, which the conventional risk management literature broaches at times only superficially.
We hope that, by the end of the course, students understand that risk management is not engineering, with mechanical solutions to social and economic problems, but rather always a fraught endeavor, rife with contradictions and contestations.
This module integrates the theory and practice of innovation and entrepreneurship.
The module draws together the learning from several functional areas that students will have already covered in the past - marketing, strategy, finance, law etc.
- and place these within the larger context of innovation and entrepreneurship.
While we will discuss many tools, models, and frameworks that can assist innovation and entrepreneurship processes, a core focus within the course is to critically analyse and apply these ideas.
Research Methods introduces you to the main approaches and strategies in research methods so that you develop a strong understanding of how social scientists search for and test out evidence in their disciplines.
In this way it will help you to develop a critical approach to questions of evidence during your studies and specifically prepare you to work on your dissertation.
The lectures will cover issues of research design, searching and reviewing the literatures on topics, and the requirements for research at this level.
You will also be given guidance on how to devise research proposals and write dissertations.
Marketing is one of the most fundamental, most complex, and possibly also most misunderstood functions of the firm.
To put it in the words of the famous Peter Drucker: "Because the purpose of business is to create a customer, the business enterprise has two--and only two--basic functions: marketing and innovation." 
The aim of this course is to provide you with a sound understanding of the principles of marketing.
In a nutshell, understanding marketing comes down to understanding your customers.
Thus, even if you have no interest in pursuing a career in marketing per se, the knowledge and skills acquired in this course will be essential to your success in business.
The course assumes no previous knowledge of marketing and will give you an overview of the basic marketing planning process, including segmentation, branding, pricing, distribution, and promotion.
These concepts are brought to life through interactive lectures and case discussions.
Furthermore, you will work on a segmentation project for a real product throughout the course.
Module Availability
This module is compulsory on the MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation and MSc Management programmes, and an elective on the MA Heritage Management programme.
It will complement the programmes and will provide students with an understanding of marketing strategies and practices as they relate to the abovementioned programmes' specific foci and objectives.
Organisation of module
The course consists of eleven 3-hour lectures/seminars.
The lectures/seminars are held each week.
Your timetable will show which lecture you should attend.
The Contemporary Live Management Project module is a capstone project designed to be offered as a core module and an alternative to the dissertation module.
The introduction of the module is driven by the gaps in the sustainability audit and mapping exercise in January 2022.
The mapping exercise identified 1) a lack of skills development concerning addressing global challenges associated with sustainability and 2) an inconsistent focus on sustainability across taught modules.
The fragmented and disconnected nature of sustainability content covered in the programme meant that students might not appreciate just how much sustainability content they actually get without a way of showing them how the pieces connect up.
The Capstone project was identified as an approach and strategy to integrate sustainability learning from across the taught modules in the programme.
The Contemporary Live Management Project module meet the following Programme's learning outcomes Identifies appropriate research methods to investigate a specific research problem; demonstrates a structured plan for the research; evaluates contemporary issues in business management/society; assesses the strength of arguments in academic literature and debates in a relevant field; expresses arguments coherently through writing; displays good structure, formatting, style and presentation of writing.
By meeting these programme learning outcomes, the module meets some of the Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) and UNESCO key competencies for sustainability such as problem solving, critical thinking, reflexivity collaborative competency and promoting employability and enterprise.
There is also the appeal to market- Many Business Schools have the capstone module on offer, for example, The School of Management at UCL, Accounting and Financial Management programme, UCL, https://london.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-financial-management,  Imperial College Business School: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/business-school/programmes/global-mba/programme/capstone/ , London School of Economics and Political Science, The MPA Capstone: https://www.lse.ac.uk/school-of-public policy/mpa/capstone  

The Contemporary Live Management Project module is important in: 

-Tackling contemporary issues arising in an unsustainable business environment organisation,  

-Developing critical and analytical skills and methods relevant to addressing sustainability in the workplace.
-Identifying and analysing problem-driven issues and using appropriate methods to deal with those issues.
-Collaborating with diverse organisations in addressing issues, risks, problems etc.
The module will fill a key gap in the MSc in Management programme by capturing the many important issues that are treated by many modules across the programme, which are in some ways fragmented and disconnected at the moment, with which sustainability is one of them.
Finally, the module fits in the UN's Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative, which asks Business Management schools to pledge their support towards putting sustainability at the forefront of education.
The module explores the theoretical perspectives of contemporary management issues and sustainability in management.
It develops students' knowledge and skills in the approaches and methods for addressing the fundamental problems that underlie organisational management of sustainability in a changing world.
The skills developed in this module are crucial in undertaking the Contemporary Live Management Project module.
In pursuit of this aim, the module will examine the key underlying sustainability issues and global mega-trends driving the need to transform the world into a sustainable one.
Students will also understand sustainable business/governance models, their underlying principles and their relationship with organisations, and the role of ethics in individual and organisational decision-making.
Finally, students will understand the use of relevant tools, techniques, methods and practices in tackling sustainability issues and apply them in their learning and the Contemporary Live Management Project.
This module encourages student engagement through a blended learning approach, permitting students to demonstrate their independent study skills increasingly to an exit level.
The module provides students an appreciation of the operations of organisations and functions of management.
It introduces students to principles and models of and developments in management.
The module explores the behaviour of organisations and their interactions with the industry, national and global environments.
The module builds on IFP/IFJ6009 Introduction to Business and Management by developing students' analytical and problem solving skills, through the examination of challenging contemporary issues within Business.
Students will analyse and comment on Business issues in essays, reports and presentations to the level that will lead to potential success on a range of masters degree programmes in the School of Business and Management.
Students will also be taken on external visits to encourage the application of theoretical knowledge in real life situations.
This module will provide students with the background knowledge and skills needed for the successful completion of a piece of empirical research in the field of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Students will be assessed by coursework only, consisting of a research proposal, a draft chapter, an annotated bibliography and a reflective task.
This module will provide students with the background knowledge and skills needed for the successful completion of a piece of empirical research in the field of Humanities and Socail Sciencess.
Students will build upon skills and knowledge learnt in IFP/IFJ6011 by selecting this sample, designing, piloting and conducting their questionnaires, analysing their findings and writing up their findings in a 5,000 word report.
Corporate Social Responsibility will offer students an introductory and in-depth module unpacking the sensitive relationship between corporations and issues of social justice, environmental destruction (animal, climate, pollution, ecologies) and labour rights.
At a time when globalisation is perceived as a threat to international business addressing inequalities across the global North and South, this module will provide postgraduate students with indispensable knowledge about key issues facing corporations today.
The module will also address both philosophical issues that include ethical theories, moral debates and social scientific perspectives as well as a grounding in real life case studies and access to a local stakeholder engagement project with charities in Tower Hamlets and Poplar.
Specific modules will cover a wide-range of subjects including: 'greening' management (reducing emissions, waste management, protecting biodiversity), workers rights (trade unions, ILO, outsourcing, supply-chains), sustainable consumption (ethical marketing, corporate lobbying, consumerism), and promoting democratic processes (governance, accountability, stakeholder engagement).
This module explores how the management of global supply chains involves negotiating a multifaceted process of value creation and capture cutting across firms' and states' borders and from the environment.
It maps the relations between firms and between firms and other actors and explores how supply chains are embedded in different environmental and social contexts.
The module explores these issues by focusing on some of the largest corporate-controlled global supply chains in history, e.g.
food and supermarkets, fashion retailers and mobile phone producers.
The final dissertation is your chance to conduct in-depth and independent research.
This can be a practice-oriented project of your choice, on a company or an industry you choose.
"I had the opportunity to explore leadership, marketing, entrepreneurship, finance and strategic management, with some brilliant minds from these fields as teaching staff.
The university's QTaster programme and other industry collaborations helped me to network with leading recruiters from the UK.
The School of Business and Management provided me with the best learning resources and opportunities to well equip me for my future endeavors."
Chaitrali Bhoi, MSc Management, 2022
Teaching for all modules includes a combination of lectures, interactive seminars, and virtual learning resources.
Each module consists of contact time with your lecturers, group discussions and self-directed further study.
You’ll be assigned an Academic Advisor who will guide and support you in both academic and pastoral matters, throughout your course.
Our lecturers also publicise their office hours, when they are available to give feedback and advice on coursework, on their online staff profiles.
Professor 6’s research interests lie in the explanation of diversity in styles of political judgement and policy decision-making in the core executive in governments.
He worked for Demos and as a parliamentary lobbyist and researcher.
Dr Kokot-Blamey has worked as a financial journalist for Reuters News and Thomson Financial, reporting on European equities and economics.
Her research interests are in gender at work.
In her current research, she seeks to better understand the experiences of women undergoing IVF while working.
Martin Laffin is Professor of Public Management.
Martin has authored or co-authored five books and numerous articles and book chapters on public policy in Britain, Australia and the USA.
He is a member of the Business and Management Research Excellence Framework 2014 Sub-Panel.
Dr Lilian Schofield is Programme Director of the MSc Management programme and Lecturer in Non-Profit Management.
Her  background is in Public Administration and International Development and her current teaching interests are: non-profit management and social change and critical management pedagogy.
Dr Zahra Sharifonnasabi is a Senior Lecturer and Associate Professor at Queen Mary.
Zahra’s research falls into the field of consumer behaviour and she takes an interpretivist, qualitative approach in her studies.
Prior to joining Queen Mary Business School, Dr Triantafylli was a lecturer in Management Accounting at Manchester Business School and a post-doctoral lecturer at ESSEC Business School in Paris.
She currently researches corporate governance and is a consultant on governance issues for the Greek government.
Dr Zhang researches markets with substantial business challenges, often in developing countries.
As well as researching household, entrepreneurial and corporate finance.
He has worked globally in finance and management consulting.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s main Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
Our location in the heart of London’s East End offers a rich cultural environment.
We have invested £105m in new facilities over the past five years to offer our students an exceptional learning environment.
Recent developments include the £39m Graduate Centre , providing 7,700 square metres of learning and teaching space.
The campus is just 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s facilities, such as the Senate House library.
The School of Business and Management has a reputation as a socially engaged management school, with an innovative, multidisciplinary, mindful and responsible approach.
We invite our students to ask incisive questions, to challenge their assumptions, and to search for solutions to real-world challenges.
We ensure students experience innovative and engaging educational pathways, alongside supportive staff and excellent research facilities.
This programme provides a foundation for a wide range of careers across the business and management spectrum.
Graduates of the Management MSc course are now working in roles such as:
at companies including PwC, BP, Amazon, PepsiCo and Citi.
September 2025 | 2 years
Queen Mary alumni can get a £1000, 10% or 20% discount on their fees depending on the programme of study.
Find out more about the Alumni Loyalty Award
There are a number of ways you can fund your postgraduate degree.
Please note that this course is not eligible for a Master’s Loan from Student Finance England
Our Advice and Counselling service offers specialist support on financial issues, which you can access as soon as you apply for a place at Queen Mary.
Before you apply, you can access our funding guides and advice on managing your money:
Find out more about how to apply for our postgraduate taught courses.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/applied-artificial-intelligence:
Artificial Intelligence is revolutionising industries worldwide, fueling demand for skilled professionals.
In this ever-changing field, how can you ensure your skills keep you at the forefront of the AI revolution?
In this programme, you will study the fundamental mathematics, coding and deep learning skills that underpin AI software and its applications.
From Year One, you will work on practical projects set by leading researchers and industry professionals in AI, all while building up a professional AI portfolio of work that will help boost your employability.
In years one and two you will take four 30-credit modules.
In the third and final year, you will undertake a 60-credit Applied AI in Industry Project, in addition to one 30-credit module and two 15-credit modules.
You’ll learn through large group interactive sessions, and also in exercise classes where students work together on problems, discuss ideas and ask questions.
Some modules have a practical element including working on real-world scenarios.
Your modules will be assessed through a range of authentic coursework activities, including exams where appropriate.
There is a strong emphasis on building up a portfolio of work to show potential employers.
All students will work on a 60-credit project in their final year.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB including one of Mathematics, Physics, or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC including one of Mathematics, Physics, or Computer Science at A-Level.
On completion of this programme, you will have the skills and knowledge to work in the AI field across a variety of industries, including healthcare, consultancy, AI and data science, law and business analysis, research, academia and more.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/computer-science:
With the digital world rapidly evolving in every industry, find yourself at the forefront of solving today’s biggest technological challenges.
Is blockchain the future?
Can we predict when the next big earthquake will happen?
How can we stop the next major cyber-attack?
Can artificial intelligence solve humanity's biggest problems?
Technology is part of our future, and it is up to people like you to decide how it will impact and shape our world.
Machine learning, data science, web programming, computer networks and security engineering – these are just a few of the areas you can explore.
With your newfound skills, figure out how to design software solutions that address cutting-edge challenges in science, engineering, healthcare, and many other areas.
Taught by our award-winning and research-leading academic team, you’ll be able to choose which areas to specialise in.
Tailor your modules to your interests and career aspirations, such as big data, computer games or social network analysis.
Ranked 8th for computer science in the UK by Times Higher Education (2024) and joint 1st for impact in the last Research Assessment Framework (2021), the research that underpins our course really has been built to reflect the global challenges of today.
We’re also accredited by the BCS, meaning that what you learn here meets the high standards of industry.
After graduating, a career in computer science could see you testing trading systems at an investment bank, designing artificial intelligence algorithms for healthcare, or researching innovations in computer vision, music and speech.
What will you choose?
Our Computer Science BSc has been accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
This programme is also accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Our MSci Computer Science programme has been accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
It has also been accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
You can complete your Computer Science degree in three, four or five years.
Industrial Experience and Year Abroad options will take place in the third year of study for BSc students.
If you are an MSci student and choose to study abroad, this will take place in your fourth year of study.
ECS620U - Optional credit-bearing summer internship (15 credits), offered between second and final year.
Choose three from:
Our MSci meets the academic requirements for registration as both a Chartered IT Professional with BCS, and Chartered Engineer with IET.
"The thing I like most about my course is the breadth of topics that it covers, from delving into the depths and intricacies of computer design, to understanding fundamental concepts in programming, to good defensive design and system structure, and the mathematical concepts that push the limits of computation.
Additionally, students are encouraged to do their own reading and study, to pursue knowledge in areas where passion for your subject can thrive and grow."
​ You'll spend lots of time in our Informatics Teaching Lab (ITL), which is only used by Electronic Engineering and Computer Science students.
Network ports are also provided for students choosing to use their own laptops for practical work.
We also have a number of students employed as 'module demonstrators', who are available in labs to help first and second-year students to navigate software and programming tools.
Our standard contextual offer: ABB including one of Maths, Physics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including one of Maths, Physics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our standard contextual offer: AAB with Mathematics, Physics or Computer Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: ABB with Mathematics, Physics or Computer Science at A-Level.
See our full entry requirements .
A career in computer science could see you developing new software at an investment bank, maintaining cloud systems at a charity, or researching innovations in computer vision, music or speech.
In addition to tech companies, your skills are in-demand across a range of employers, including start-up businesses, finance, health, media, and public sector organisations.
Recent graduates of this course are now working in roles such as:
at organisations such as:
Computer Science - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science with Industrial Experience - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science - MSci (Hons)
Computer Science with Year Abroad - MSci (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/computer-science:
Is quantum computing the future?
Will autonomous systems revolutionise healthcare and transport?
Ranked 8th for computer science and information systems in the UK by QS World Rankings by Subject (2025) and joint 1st for impact in the last Research Assessment Framework (2021), the research that underpins our course really has been built to reflect the global challenges of today.
This programme will be reviewed for re-accreditation by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, in December 2025.
This review is expected to result in accreditation for the 2026 and 2027 intakes.
Accreditation can only be granted after a successful review and is subject to approval by the BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, Academic Accreditation Committee.
"Queen Mary was my first choice as the modules they offered appealed to me the most, namely User Experience, and Web Technology.
I am in my 3rd year now and I'm really pleased I chose to study here.
Modules that I had not previously considered, like Algorithms and Data Structures, turned out to be very enjoyable and immensely useful in job interviews."
This lab is undergoing a £20 million refurbishment set to finish early 2026.
The average salary of Queen Mary computer science graduates who graduated in 2022 is £38,669.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/computer-science-and-artificial-intelligence:
Explore the fascinating world of Computer Science and AI and get ready to solve real-world challenges.
AI-powered health diagnostics.
Managing your finances with AI-powered budgeting apps.
Navigating cities using real-time traffic predictions.
AI now influences many areas of our lives, from how we work and study to how we create, and even socialise.
With computer science and artificial intelligence being one of the most rapidly growing technological developments of our time, you could be at the forefront of transforming the world around us.
At Queen Mary we’ve been leading on this topic for decades.
We were recently ranked 7 th in the UK for Data Science and AI by QS World Ranking by Subject 2025 and joint 1 st for outstanding research impact (REF, 2021).
During this programme, you’ll explore the fundamental concepts of computer science, be introduced to the different areas of AI, and design an individual project based on your own interests.
You’ll also have the chance to apply for a year working in industry to put your learning into action or consider spending your third year studying abroad as part of our 4-year programme.
You’ll be taught by an expert team of academics who are dedicated to delivering a research-driven approach to education.
Through their involvement in our cutting-edge research groups, they’re equipped to introduce you to a range of topics including machine learning, game AI, operating systems and robotics.
Having learnt some of the most sought-after skills that employers look for, and with a wide array of career opportunities in almost any area you can think of, you’ll be spoilt for choice.
Healthcare, retail, manufacturing, security, games, information management – which industry sparks your interest?
Choose one of:
Choose two from:
Past students from our School have worked with companies including:
"I enjoyed the variety of topics covered in the course, from Robotics and Artificial Intelligence to other key areas of Computer Science.
This broad curriculum allowed me to develop a diverse skill set and gain knowledge across multiple fields, which kept my learning experience engaging and well-rounded."
You’ll meet with your personal advisor regularly, to ensure that you are settling in and progressing well.
We have a number of computer science students employed as 'module demonstrators', who are available in labs to help first and second-year students to navigate software and programming tools.
ITCareerFinder predicts that jobs requesting AI and machine learning skills will increase by 71% between 2021 and 2026.
It's been widely reported that there is a shortage of talent in the AI industry.
Graduating with a BSc in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence should position students at the forefront of the job market, due to the significant need both nationally and internationally.
Whilst we have not seen the first cohort of this programme graduate yet, recent Computer Science graduates have been hired by:
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence with Industrial Experience - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/computer-science-with-management-itmb:
An IT Management for Business programme, which combines the expertise of computer science and business academics, with the needs of industry.
You’ll develop theoretical understanding and gain hands-on experience in programming, software, web technologies and information systems.
Alongside this, you’ll be taught the vital skills for success in business, such as management, marketing and accounting.
Industry involvement is fundamental to this programme.
As a Tech Industry Gold learner, you'll become part of a community with regular access to employers, through industry-supported events, talks, competitions, awards and more.
This programme holds the Tech Industry Gold accreditation, the only industry accreditation recognising high-quality pathways into digital and tech careers.
The Tech Industry Gold accreditation means that this course has met the standards set by the industry for both content and delivery and includes the balance of technical, business, project and professional skills employers most value.
It also means that real-life learning is embedded in your course and the gold tick tells employers you hold the skills needed to help them succeed.
This programme is also accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
You can complete your Computer Science with Management (ITMB) degree in three or four years.
Industrial Experience and Year Abroad options will take place in the third year of study.
Plus two modules from:
Plus one module from:
Elective modules are subject to timetabling constraints and module availability.
"I love the combination of computer science and management modules as some of them overlap, allowing us to use knowledge from our previously taught classes.
It creates a symbiosis of understanding the subjects in the broader sense, as everything in the world is connected."
Taught modules are usually assessed through a combination of exams and coursework.
Lab-based modules are often assessed through practical coursework, while more theoretical modules may be assessed through in-class tests, exercise sheets or written assignments.
Group and individual project work forms a significant component of assessment.
Project modules are assessed on the basis of a written report, oral presentation and demonstration of the concrete outcomes of the module, e.g.
developed software.
We have a number of students employed as 'module demonstrators', who are available in labs to help first and second-year students to navigate software and programming tools.
89% of Tech Industry Gold Degree graduates are in employment 15 months after graduation and 84% achieve a 1st or 2:1 (TechSkills Student Outcomes Report, 2023).
Computer Science with Management (ITMB) graduates will be ideally placed to pursue roles in IT management, business strategy and planning, system design and IT consultancy.
You could put your degree to use in sectors such as finance, education, health and media, as well as tech and IT.
Recent graduates of the programme have been hired by:
in roles such as:
Computer Science with Management (ITMB) - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science with Management (ITMB) with Industrial Experience - BSc (Hons)
Computer Science with Management (ITMB) with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/computer-science-with-management-itmb:
*These fees are for the 2024-25 academic year and are provided as a guideline.
Fees for 2025-26 have not yet been set.
"This course is a unique and well-balanced combination of two competitive fields.
If you enjoy solving logical problems and developing computational skills but also want to master critical thinking, project management, and strategic analysis in real-world applications - this program is for you.
It provides a deep understanding of how these disciplines are interconnected between each other and broadens  career prospects by equipping you with all the necessary skills to fit both technical and management roles"

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/computer-systems-engineering:
Technology is continuing to evolve and rapid developments are changing life as we know it.
We were recently ranked 8th for Computer Science and Information Systems in the UK by QS World Rankings by Subject (2025) and 1st in the UK for Electrical and Electronic Engineering - US News World University Ranking 2024.
This programme will be reviewed for re-accreditation by the Institute of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council in December 2025.
Accreditation can only be granted after a successful review and is subject to approval by the Institute of Engineering and Technology Academic Accreditation Committee.
"I chose to study this programme because it’s a perfect mixture of the three things I wanted to do within my university degree.
I wanted something with as much theory as practical work.
In this course, I get to code as well as use newly learned knowledge and skill in assigned projects.
My favourite part of the course is that the modules all tie in with each other.
I like the hardware-software interaction because most of the course focuses on computer systems so I like working on things like low-level programming, embedded systems and understanding how the hardware and the software work together."
You'll also be able to access a range of specialised equipment in our state-of-the-art Electronics Lab.
The average salary of a Queen Mary Computer Systems Engineering graduate who graduated in 2022 is £46,360.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/digital-and-technology-solutions-business-analyst:
For G4DH:
For G4DD:
This degree apprenticeship will provide you with the skills and experience you need to work as a software engineer.
You’ll study part-time on campus at Queen Mary, learning alongside students on our standard BSc programmes.
On the other days of the week, you’ll learn on the job, with one of our partner employers.
You apply for this degree apprenticeship through the National Apprenticeship Service, or via the employer’s own website, rather than through UCAS.
Visit our employer partners' websites to check live vacancies and application deadlines:
There is no limit to the number of apprenticeships you can apply for, in addition to your five UCAS choices.
Find out more about the full range of degree apprenticeships at Queen Mary .
If you have any questions, please contact Sande-Apprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk.
Entry Requirements:
AAB at A-Level.
Alternatively, A-Level grades ABB including either A-Level Mathematics or Computer Science.
GCSE
Minimum five GCSE passes including English at grade C or 4 and Maths at grade B or 5.
Grade Equivalents
International Baccalaureate (IB)
34 points, 665 at HL, or 32 points, 655 at HL including Mathematics or Computer Science
Access Higher Education
We consider applications from students with the Access to Higher Education Diploma in Computing .
The minimum academic requirement is to achieve 60 credits overall, with 45 credits at Level 3, of which 30 credits must be at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit or higher.
BTEC
BTEC Computing Accepted only - D*DD.
We do not accept BTEC IT.
We only accept BTEC Extended diploma (RQF) in Computing - D*DD (BTEC IT not accepted)
We may consider BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering (RQF) with A level Maths grade B minimum alongside it.
Access to higher education
Computing (only).
The minimum requirement is to achieve 60 credits overall, with 45 credits at Level 3, of which 30 credits must be at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit or higher.
BTEC/ CTEC alongside 2 x A Levels
We may consider these if they are equivalent to 1 A level, we would require 2 A level a longside this including Maths/Computer Science.
Scottish higher
ABB at Higher in one sitting and AB at Advanced Higher .
Computer Science or Mathematics must be studied at Advanced Higher.
To apply, you must be either:
See the UK Government apprenticeship funding rules .
This course does not accept applications for deferred entry.
Your employer will pay your Queen Mary tuition fees.
You will be paid for your work with the employer.
Degree apprentices typically start on an annual salary of £14,000 – £21,000.
Visit the government apprenticeships website www.gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship to explore live vacancies and find helpful contacts.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/digital-and-technology-solutions-business-analyst:
Queen Mary and the employer agree the exact academic entry requirements for each apprenticeship.
Grades given below are indicative.
Further details are given on the entry requirements page .
Generally, we expect our degree apprentices to demonstrate similar academic achievements to full-time BSc students.
A-level Grades AAB at A-Level.
Excludes General Studies and Critical Thinking.
International Baccalaureate (IB) 34 points overall, including 6,6,5 from three Higher Level subjects.
Alternatively, 32 points overall including 6,5,5 from three Higher Level subjects including Mathematics or Computer Science.
BTEC RQF (2016) D*DD in Computing with a B or 6 in GCSE Mathematics Access HE Access to Higher Education Diploma in Computing.
Applications are considered on a case by case basis.
Due to the high volume of applications, we do not make offers of study purely on the basis of meeting grade requirements.
GCSE Mathematics at grade B/5 is required in addition to the Access qualification.
GCSE Minimum five GCSE passes including English at grade C or 4 and Maths at grade B or 5.
Individual circumstances We will take into account some of your personal circumstances and background when considering your application.
Find out more about contextual admissions .
Access HE Access to Higher Education Diploma in Computing.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/digital-and-technology-solutions-data-analyst:
For G4DG:
For G4DK:
Earn while you train to become a data analyst, and graduate with both a BSc and four years of work experience.
Data analysts collect, organise and study data.
They report their findings and make recommendations that are key to improving business performance.
This innovative degree apprenticeship has been developed in partnership with PwC, to help you fast-track your career in technology and business.
You will study the first term of each year on campus at Queen Mary, learning at London City Institute of Technology and Mile End on your bespoke degree.
From the second semester of each year, you will work closely with technology experts at one of PwC's London offices, whilst undertaking a work context module.
For the third semester of the year, you will have a combination of work, remote and in person study, that will help you develop your knowledge, skills and behaviours that underpin your apprenticeship.
Please note that this course will commence on 8th September, earlier than other Queen Mary courses.
*The information on this course page is correct at the time of writing.
We are continually exploring ways to improve our educational offering and keep programmes reflective of industry.
As such, modules and course structure for September 2025 entry may change.
You will be informed of any significant changes.
The process to apply for a degree apprenticeship varies slightly depending on whether you are currently employed or an aspiring employee.
Details of the process for both are outlined below:
At present, PwC is our sole employer partner for this programme.
All applications should be made through UCAS (look out for the relevant UCAS deadlines).
Hear from some of PwC's current apprentices.
After you apply
Your UCAS form will be reviewed by a member of admissions staff.
Following this review, we may also invite you to complete some online assessments, including an online interview and assessment centre.
Online interview
The online interview is run by PwC and can be taken at a time and place to suit you, as long as this is in sufficient time before the assessment centre (we’ll advise you of the deadlines).
You will have the opportunity to practice questions and find out more about PwC through completing this exercise.
Assessment centre
The assessment centres are held online in March, and involve an assessed group exercise conducted by PwC.
You'll have the opportunity to ask questions and find out more about the programme.
Please contact Sande-Apprenticeships@qmul.ac.uk if you have any questions!
Please note that all modules are subject to change with the introduction of new IFATE standards, ESFA and OFSTED requirements
"No two degree apprentices have the same experiences within PwC, there are endless opportunities to develop yourself in whatever way you see fit.
The curriculum I study is also very interesting and vast, it varies from aspects such as programming and computing theory, to a more business-focused approach, which means no two days are ever the same.
I truly feel blessed to be a part of PwC."
This programme combines academic study and work experience at PwC, in a block-release delivery model.
In Semester A, you will attend workshops, labs, and big classroom teaching sessions at the LCIOT campus.
Further, you will have one week of sprint teaching each semester at Mile End campus.
During this period, you'll receive approximately three to four days of weekly contact time made up of workshops, lab sessions and big classroom teaching.
In Semester B, you will commence work full-time across various data teams at one of the local PwC offices for five months of each academic year.
During this time, you will have a work context academic module to complete.
Your semester C will contain both employment and remote / on campus learning before you go on summer break.
Throughout your journey, you’ll be supported by a team of dedicated staff from both the University and PwC, who will coach you to develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to succeed in your apprenticeship.
Assessment typically includes a combination of exams and coursework.
There are practical assignments for laboratory-based modules, and exercise sheets or written assignments for more theoretical modules.
The End Point Assessment
The End Point Assessment (EPA) module is a 12-hour per semester module where students will reflect on the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSB’s) that should be displayed during their apprenticeship.
This will train them to sit their End Point Assessment, taken at the final stage of their apprenticeship.
The EPA contains three requirements, the synoptic project, the project presentation and the professional discussion.
You will be taught at the London City Institute of Technology , a partnership between Queen Mary and Newham College, based near Canning Town station.
You'll have access to well-designed resources for self-directed study, and we will pair you with a specialist advisor to support your progress throughout your apprenticeship.
Y ou will attend a variety of workshops and contact sessions to keep you in touch with Queen Mary and PwC.
These are designed to help you progress both professionally and academically.
PwC has consistently been voted Best Graduate Employer in The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers survey.
It's considered one of the 'big 4', which refers to the world's top four accounting firms.
At the end of the apprenticeship, we expect that you’ll continue your career at PwC as a graduate, using the skills and experience you will have gained.
They can also offer:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/digital-and-technology-solutions-software-engineering:
For G4DC:
For G4DM:
Earn while you train to become a software engineer, and graduate with both a BSc and four years of work experience.
Software engineers design, build and test high-quality software solutions, whilst always ensuring security is robust.
They typically work as part of a collaborative team.
You may be expected to cover the cost of any resit exams.
The Goldman Sachs Degree Apprenticeship is a fantastic programme and I could not recommend it enough!
It is perfect for students who are looking to get a head-start on building a career in technology at a top-tier firm and making a direct impact from day one.
My advice to future apprentices would be to bring your personality to work and be authentic to what makes you unique!
Whilst the weekly delivery takes place at the LCIOT, your sprint teaching will take place at Mile End.
You will attend lectures, seminars, labs and tutorials during your on campus days.
Your on campus requirement will be one day per week plus one week sprint teaching each semester and you will be in teaching during Semester A, B and C.
Your on campus time will be a minimum of 20% of your total weekly working hours and averages about 5-10 hours contact time.
Apprentices start one week before standard students.
The End Point Assessment (EPA) is a module where students will reflect on the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSB’s) that should be displayed during their apprenticeship.
You will be taught at the new London City Institute of Technology , a partnership between Queen Mary and Newham College, based near Canning Town station.
After successfully completing their BSc, most degree apprentices continue on their career path as a member of staff within their organisation.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/mathematics-with-computing:
Combine your passion for mathematics with the power of computing to shape our future.
Mathematics provides the theoretical framework and essential tools for approaching complex problems, while computing offers the practical expertise to put these solutions into action.
Together these two disciplines drive innovation and transform the world around us.
Even though technology continues to change, the mathematics behind innovations will stay the same.
Studying with us, you’ll gain an understanding of the logic that underpins computing and programming, helping you understand systems and technologies as they evolve.
Our blend of theoretical and practical training will help you develop the ultimate skillset for careers in finance, tech and data science, among others.
You can complete your BSc in Mathematics with Computing in three or four years.
Electives
You will enrol on a Mathematics BSc with Foundation which will offer progression to a range of degrees in the School of Mathematical Sciences including BSc Mathematics with Computing.
At the end of the foundation programme, students will be required to meet the progression requirements for admission to BSc Mathematics with Computing.
Apply for our Mathematics with Computing BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work as part of your degree.
As well as helping you to stand out from the crowd and secure graduate employment, a placement is an excellent opportunity to develop your mathematical, computational and data science skills, and put your learning into context.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Mathematics with Computing BSc with a Year Abroad.
Many computing modules have a practical element, presented in one of our computer labs.
As a graduate of BSc Mathematics with Computing, you will develop strong numerical, analytical and computational skills, which will set you apart from other graduates.
Graduates who can combine maths with computer science skills are in demand in sectors from tech to finance.
You’ll be equipped for working in, for example, big data and simulation of complex systems, and will have a solid grounding for careers like quantitative analysis.
Mathematics with Computing - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Computing with Year in Industry - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Computing with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/robotics-engineering:
It combines expertise in mechanical engineering, electronics and computer science to show you what ’ s possible in this field.
Learn from world-leading experts and use our r obotics hub, rapid prototyping facilities, Makerspace and Electronics Laboratory.
Engineers, computer scientists, clinical experts and psychologists are all carrying out research with the Centre for Advanced Robotics.
All modules are compulsory.
MEng only
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to BEng or MEng Robotics Engineering.
International students who may not have had the chance to study A-level equivalent qualifications may qualify for our one-year International Science and Engineering Foundation Programme, commonly known as the ISEFP .
Robotics bridges the gap between mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, AI and computer science, opening up a range of careers.
Graduates are well placed to find work in engineering, technology, manufacturing or the public sector, as well as in research and development.
Recent Robotics Engineering graduates now have roles such as:
*Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2019-22

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-for-computer-games-development-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science
Step into the £140 billion global games industry, where creativity meets cutting-edge technology.
This master’s degree will give you the expertise to design and develop next-generation games using the latest tools, AI techniques, and machine learning innovations.
You’ll learn from world-leading researchers in Games and AI, and join a vibrant community of developers, creators, and industry partners.
Our links with the prestigious IGGI PhD programme connect you to a UK-wide network of over 60 games researchers.
Our world-class teaching, cutting-edge research, and strong industry links will support you as you master AI, machine learning, and data science for the design and development of games.
Through a series of interactive and practical modules, you’ll learn how to:
You’ll also work closely with expert lecturers and supervisors to design and deliver a major project on a games topic you’re passionate about—showcasing your skills and creativity to future employers
Find out more about each module by looking them up in the module directory .
Individual projects are undertaken during the summer months, under the supervision of an academic member of staff, with whom there are weekly consultancy meetings.
These are used for students to report on their progress, discuss research and design issues, and plan their future work.
The Projects Coordinator also runs a thread of taught sessions to support the project module.
A number of industrial-linked projects are offered each year, which students can apply for.
The MSc programme was a perfect match for my career goals.
It is designed to develop excellent game developers, extending beyond just programming skills.
The programme also offers opportunities to build cross-cultural and interdisciplinary perspectives.
Choosing Queen Mary, a prestigious university in London, provided me with the chance to meet students from various fields and participate more conveniently in cultural and industry activities in the city.
The academics regularly share information about industry events, and we receive emails regarding career assistance and employability enhancement.
Yuan Zhao, MSc Computer Games, 2024
You will learn by attending lectures, tutorials and labs.
Each non-project-based module involves lectures, problem-solving coursework and practical sessions.
Lectures are used to introduce principles and methods and also to illustrate how they can be applied in practice.
Coursework allows students to develop problem-solving skills and gain practical experience.
Practical lessons take the form of exercise classes and programming laboratories, that allow the students to learn by doing.
You will be assigned an Academic Advisor who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters throughout your time at Queen Mary.
Professor Colton has over 25 years of experience in AI, including generative technologies, such as deep learning, evolutionary approaches and procedural content generation.
He is experienced in the application of AI techniques to cultural and artistic domains.
He teaches modules in computational creativity.
Dr Gow has a background in artificial intelligence and human-computer interaction.
His research is on computational game design.
His interests include computational creativity, procedural content generation and game AI.
He also lectures at Goldsmiths University of London.
Dr Hansard’s research interests cover statistical scene and image models; depth-cameras and multi-view scene reconstruction; binocular vision, eye-movements and 3D displays.
His recent publications include “Constrained Optimization for Plane-Based Stereo” with S.
Ahmed and A.
Cavallaro.
Dr Perez-Liebana’s research is centred in the application of artificial intelligence to games, reinforcement learning and evolutionary computation.
He has published more than 60 papers in leading conferences and journals with two best paper awards, a BCS Intelligence Prize, and 1,900+ citations.
BA BSc(Hons) PhD
Dr Tokarchuk is a member of the Game AI and Cognitive Science research groups, as well as the Centre for Intelligent Sensing (CIS).
She researches mobile and location-based gaming, data-driven methods for human-computer interaction design, mobile sensing, social computing, social sensing, recommendation and game AI.
The School has excellent bespoke facilities , including:
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s main , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
The campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s facilities, such as the Senate House library.
Queen Mary’s Game AI Research Group and IGGI Centre for Doctoral Training has an established network of over 80 games companies, including Sony Interactive Entertainment, Creative Assembly, Bossa, and EA.
Students on this programme will benefit from our strong industry links, specifically through our research collaborations, and regular hosting of industry speakers at seminars and conferences.
Recent graduates from across the School have gone on to positions such as:
In organisations such as:
Fees will be announced in September 2025
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology, Mathematics or a related discipline.
Applicants with a good 2:2 degree (55% or above) will be considered on an individual basis.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/advanced-computer-science-msc:
Introducing the MSc in Advanced Computer Science, where you can specialise in Software and Data Engineering or Interaction Design.
Dive into cutting-edge topics like Machine Learning, Security and Interactive Systems Design.
This programme equips graduates with essential skills in AI, Machine Learning and Human-Computer Interaction preparing you for an impactful career in today's tech-driven world.
This programme offers a multidisciplinary approach, integrating computer science with diverse fields to enhance your existing knowledge.
You'll develop skills in functional programming, explore semi-structured data and advanced data modelling, and establish foundational understanding in security, authentication, and Bayesian decision-making.
Tailor your studies with a variety of industry-focused optional modules.
Our excellent professional links will allow you to network with potential employers and access opportunities to work together on commercial and research projects.
The School has collaborations, partnerships, industrial placement schemes and public engagement programmes with organisations including Vodafone, Google, IBM, BT, NASA, BBC and Microsoft.
You will devise and carry out a major final project, which you may be able to carry out in collaboration with an industrial partner.
This degree is accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
This degree is also accredited by BCS on behalf of the Engineering Council , for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The course offers two streams, each with its own set of core modules:
Software and Data Engineering stream (default)
Semester A:
Semester B:
Semester C
Interaction Design stream
These streams will allow you to further develop your professional profile and graduate with industry-relevant expertise.
The Software and Data Engineering stream is the default stream students will follow, if they do not select an option.
During Welcome Week, students choose one stream of elective modules based on their interests, allowing them to tailor their professional profile and gain industry-relevant expertise.
Find out more about each module, by looking them up in the module directory .
Examples of past project topics include:
Teaching for all modules includes a combination of lectures, seminars and use of a virtual learning environment.
Each module provides contact time with your lecturers, supported by lab work and directed further study.
Part-time study options mean that the number of modules taken is reduced per semester, with the full modules required to complete the programme spread over two academic years.
Dr Constantinou’s research is in Bayesian Artificial Intelligence for causal discovery and intelligent decision-making under uncertainty.
He applies his research to a wide range of areas including sports, economics, medicine, finance, and gaming
BA MA PhD (Cantab) PGCert(HE) NTFS FBCS CITP
Professor Curzon co-created the EPSRC-funded magazine and webzine cs4fn, an initiative to bring computer science research to schools.
He has won three Draper's prizes for excellence and innovation in teaching.
His current research area concerns interaction design and human error.
Professor Healey is the Head of the Cognitive Science Research Group.
He recently served as Senior Researcher in Residence at the Digital Catapult and as 2016 International Visiting Chair in Empirical Foundations of Linguistics at Sorbonne Cite / Paris 7.
Dr Naeem’s current research interests are within the areas of pervasive/ubiquitous computing.
His research is focused on the development of assistive technologies to support independent living.
Professor Neil’s research interests cover Bayesian modelling and risk quantification in diverse areas.
He is a joint founder of Agena Ltd, who develop and distribute AgenaRisk, a software product for modelling risk and uncertainty.
Dr Paulo Oliva is a computer scientist with a Ph.D.
in Theoretical Computer Science.
He is currently a Reader in Mathematical Logic, with expertise in System Verification, Game Theory, Formal Logic, and Constructive Mathematics.
Paulo also teaches the Functional Programming module on MSc Computer Science.
BSc MSc ,PhD SMIEEE
Professor Patras’ research focuses on analysis of human behaviour, emotions and cognitive states from images, video and their neurophysiological signals, such as heart rate and EEG.
He has more than 200 publications in journals and conferences, an h-index of 33, and more than 6000 citations.
Ms Reid leads the industrial placement element of various programmes in the School of Electronics Engineering and Computer Science.
She researches user-related issues in information retrieval (IR), focusing on information-seeking behaviour in different contexts, such as structured documents.
The broad range of skills gained through programmes in this School, coupled with multiple opportunities for extra-curricular activities and work experience, has enabled postgraduates to move into roles such as:
At global companies including:
September 2025 | 1 year
Home: £2000 Overseas: £2000 Information about deposits

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-conversion-msc:
This MSc opens the door to a high-impact career enhanced by artificial intelligence.
Designed for students from non-STEM backgrounds, our conversion programme equips you with the skills to confidently step into the world of AI.
You’ll explore key areas like Deep Learning, Neural Networks, and Ethical AI, while gaining hands-on experience with the latest industry tools.
From building smart applications to analysing data and designing responsible AI solutions, you’ll graduate with the expertise to thrive as an AI Specialist—ready to drive innovation across a range of industries.
Throughout the programme, you’ll build a strong foundation in programming, machine learning, and data analysis—supported by expert teaching and hands-on learning across essential AI topics.
With carefully tailored content and dedicated support, we’ve created a learning experience that makes complex concepts accessible.
You’ll start by developing core coding skills through Python programming for AI—no prior experience required.
Modules in data analytics and statistics will build your confidence in handling, visualising, and interpreting data, providing the analytical backbone for more advanced AI work.
Alongside technical training, you’ll engage with the ethical and societal implications of AI, learning how to create responsible and trustworthy AI solutions.
As the programme progresses, you’ll delve into key areas such as machine learning, deep learning, and neural networks, gaining practical expertise in advanced models used in real-world applications like image and speech recognition.
You’ll also explore how AI is transforming industries, helping you identify where your skills can have the most impact.
Throughout the programme, regular lab sessions, tutorials, and applied exercises will ensure that theory is continually reinforced by practice.
You’ll put your skills to the test through real-world use cases and a final MSc project applying AI to an area of your choosing, giving you the opportunity to specialise, innovate, and showcase your capabilities.
Modules for this programme will be approved in the coming weeks.
Artificial intelligence continues to be one of the fastest-growing fields in the global economy, with significant demand for skilled professionals.
A recent report from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport highlights over 110,000 vacancies in AI and data science roles, with the majority of organisations struggling to recruit talent.
This MSc is designed to address that critical skills gap, empowering graduates from non-STEM backgrounds to step confidently into high-growth careers.
With the UK government investing heavily in AI infrastructure and conversion course funding, graduates will be entering a high-demand job market both in the UK and internationally.
Practical AI expertise is increasingly valued by employers, with recent research from the Oxford Internet Institute showing that AI skills attract a 23% wage premium rising to 36% in science, engineering, and tech roles.
This is notably higher than the wage premium associated with formal qualifications such as Master’s degrees (13%) and even PhDs (33%).
Queen Mary Careers and Enterprise offers a range of tailored support and resources for current students and recent graduates, from refining your CV and exploring your options, to finding part time roles, work experience and graduate opportunities.
January 2026 | 1 year
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a degree not related to Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology or Electronic Engineering.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-msc:
Our MSc in Artificial Intelligence opens doors to a thriving AI career.
Explore key topics—agents, vision, and language—supported by leading research groups.
With a strong emphasis on practical machine learning, this programme boosts your employability.
From advanced AI, such as Large Language Models, to AI applications in Creative Domains, it provides top-tier expertise for high-demand roles.
Join us to master essential skills for success in both the AI industry and academia.
This MSc allows you to focus your studies and combine different AI topics to suit your personal requirements and future plans.
Our world-class teaching, research, and industrial contacts will support you as you learn to understand fundamental AI concepts.
You will study universal machine learning tools essential for any AI job profile, as well as specific practical and research skills across various AI topics.
You will gain experience with cutting-edge tools such as Deep Neural Networks (DNN), Deep Reinforcement Learning (Deep RL), and Large Language Models (LLMs) through regular exercises and practical labs.
You will work closely with your lecturers and supervisors to carry out a major project on the AI topic you wish to specialise in.
The MSc Artificial Intelligence (AI) is structured in two different streams.
All students will study a set of compulsory modules that cover the fundamentals of machine learning, artificial intelligence, natural language processing, and ethics, regulation, and law in digital information processing and decision making.
In addition to the compulsory modules, you will choose one educational stream of elective modules during Welcome Week, based on your interests.
It is also accredited by BCS , The Chartered Institute for IT, on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
In addition, this degree is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements.
In addition to the compulsory modules, you will also choose one educational stream from the two options below.
Semester A
Semester B
This stream examines the intersection of AI, Computer Vision, and Creative Domains.
Students will explore the latest methods for image processing and pattern recognition, delving into the multifaceted applications of AI across Creative Domains such as audio, music, game design, fiction writing, and artworks.
The programme covers both practical skills and the philosophy and science underpinning AI systems with creative responsibilities.
Modules prioritise hands-on experience, enabling students to apply theoretical knowledge and develop a robust skill set in Multimodal AI.
Find out more about each module below, by looking them up in the module directory .
Examples of past projects include:
"I am currently working as an AI Engineer in a fintech company.
My role consists of NLP model retraining and the chatbot’s daily conversational review.
I’m responsible for the natural language agents; fine-tuning and retraining the model based on production dialogue.
Being able to successfully use and practice in the industry what I was taught at university has been very rewarding.
As well as the knowledge that I acquired, Queen Mary helped to prepare me with hands-on practice, teamwork and industry experience."
Keith Vella, Artificial Intelligence MSc, 2019
Teaching for all modules includes a combination of lectures, seminars and a virtual learning environment.
DPhil FIEE FBCS
Prof Gong is a Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
He established the Queen Mary Computer Vision Laboratory in 1993.
His research focuses on object recognition, action and behaviour recognition, and video analysis.
Johan Pauwels is a Lecturer with the Centre for Digital Music at Queen Mary University of London.
Johan’s aim is to make machines understand music to the level of a trained professional, such that new tools can be developed to assist musicians performing live or in the studio, listeners navigating large music collections and learners studying music.
To that end, he uses a combination of machine learning, signal processing, data science and music theory.
Professor Poesio focuses on computational linguistics/natural language processing, and in particular anaphora resolution/coreference.
He explores using games to create resources for NLP, deception detection; using brain data for NLP and distributional semantics.
Dr Samaratunga is a Senior Lecturer in Information Technology Management and the Director of Student Wellbeing & Student Experience..
She teaches on many modules and is the Module Director for Ethics, Regulation and Law in Advanced Digital Information Processing and Decision Making.
Dr Zhang focuses on image and video analysis and processing; semantic media analysis; content-based multimedia retrieval, annotation and classification; multimedia systems in social environments; multimedia clustering and summarisation.
She has published widely on these and other topics.
The demand for qualified experts in artificial intelligence is high; AI jobs are amongst the best paid in the industry , and a solid background in AI is highly desirable in many research disciplines.
Software Developer/Engineer, Data Scientist and Data Engineer are occupations that have seen a significant growth in demand for AI skills, according to a recent report from Lightcast .
AI skills will also be integral for many 'jobs of the future' emerging across a diverse range of fields, including health, agriculture and the creative industries.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-in-science-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science and Physics and Astronomy
Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning have become a revolutionary force in science and medicine, contributing to numerous important breakthroughs in recent years.
From climate change to drug discovery to particle physics, we are witnessing unprecedented advances in automation, data analysis, predictive modelling, and simulations.
This cross-disciplinary masters programme will teach you the fundamentals of AI and Machine Learning, and how these can be applied to real-world scientific problems.
This MSc will teach you the fundamental concepts of Artificial Intelligence with a focus on the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to apply machine learning techniques to a variety of scientific industries, research areas and real-world problems.
Our core compulsory modules explore probability, statistics, machine learning and deep learning, providing you with a solid foundation in AI.
You will also gain experience with leading tools, software, and programming languages such as R, Python, C++ and SQL, among others.
You will also work closely with a Queen Mary researcher on a research project in which you can apply your AI and Machine Learning skills to a high-profile dataset or active research being conducted in areas such as computational chemistry, epidemiology, renewable energy and many more.
3 compulsory modules
4 elective modules
Research project in Data Science
This module establishes the probability and statistics background required for students applying techniques or doing other advanced statistics Modules.
The Module begins by covering the essential theoretical notions of probability and the distributions of random variables which underpin statistical methods.
It then describes different types of statistical tests of hypotheses and addresses the questions of how to use them and when to use them.
This material is essential for applications of statistics in psychology, life or physical sciences, business or economics.
The module covers fundamental concepts of machine learning with emphasis on the development of practical skills required for the selection and application of machine learning methods to defined problems.
Topics include data representation and preparation, unsupervised learning methods, regression and classification methods, artificial neural networks and performance evaluation.
Face-to-face teaching will be combined with extensive hands-on sessions in the computational lab.
The students work on research topics in one of the areas of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Science set by their project supervisors.
Computational work is the principal component of the projects.
The work also involves critical evaluation of previously published results.
A dissertation is prepared.
The research methods module is designed to help you attain the relevant skills to assess, understand, and visualise data and to undertake your research project.
This includes essential skills such as communication and organising information from the literature, through to being able to extract information on data science methods from a multidisciplinary environment and report writing.
A strong emphasis will be placed on enabling you to engage with complex information from seminars and to discuss that information to explore how it relates to material studied on your programme.
Discussion sessions will be a key part in helping you develop as a data scientist and enhance transferable skills that will benefit you in the rest of your degree and future employment.
This module introduces you to the Python programming language.
After learning about data types, variables and expressions, you will explore the most important features of the core language including conditional branching, loops, functions, classes and objects.
We will also look at several of the key packages (libraries) that are widely used for numerical programming and data analysis.
This module introduces a selection of numerical methods for solving applied mathematical problems.
One of the most fascinating aspects of physical theories is the fact that highly complex behaviour can arise from the repeated application of simple rules - consider for example the motion of bodies under gravity, which combine to give us the rich structure of our Universe.
Such systems are the focus of much current research, and whilst they are too complex for an analytic approach, their numerical solution is (at least in principle) straightforward.
The aim of the course is to introduce students to a selection of computational algorithms that are used to solve problems in applied mathematics, and to provide them with practical skills in software development that will be useful in many fields both within and outside of academic work.
The module uses python as the main coding language.
Some experience with python or similar coding languages will be an advantage but will not be assumed.
The module aims to introduce you to the Bayesian paradigm.
The module will show some of the problems with frequentist statistical methods and demonstrate that the Bayesian paradigm provides a unified approach to problems of statistical inference and prediction.
In the Module you will learn to make Bayesian inferences in a variety of problems, and apply Bayesian methods in real-life examples.
This module will present methods for time series analysis.These will allow the student to understand better how to use and extract information from historical business data series.
In particular, the student will learn how to extract the pivotal concepts of time series data, including the trend and cyclic components of a data series, calculate the autocorrelation, learn about autoregressive and moving average models, and cointegration.The module will develop the notions around realistic business examples and an implementation of the methods will be provided using the statistic software R..
The ML in Materials Discovery module is designed to help you understand how artificial intelligence and machine learning can be applied to the domain of materials science for materials discovery and help you attain a deeper understanding of ML methods applied to real scientific datasets to refine your practical skills.
In this module you will learn the basics of modern chemical informatics, and how AI and ML methods can be exploited to study material properties.
Then you will apply these computational methods to design new materials, and to model and predict their properties.
You will have the opportunity to apply these techniques to specific cutting-edge examples.
The Cloud computing in AI module is designed to familiarise yourself with the latest Cloud computing and decentralised applications technologies in the context of data management and AI and ML applications.
This module will allow you to build working knowledge of the fundamentals of data management and data processing and then to explore network concepts, types of devices and data center functions.
You will learn about services provided on the top 'Big Clouds' and practice on how to combine these services to support AI analyses and modelling.
You will acquire confidence in applying all the tools learned in your master programme to the widest range of computing and business environments.
The AI in Astrophysics and Space Science module is designed to help you understand how artificial intelligence and machine learning can be applied to the astrophysics and space-science domains and help you attain a deeper understanding of ML methods applied to real scientific datasets to refine your practical skills and to help prepare for your independent study research project irrespective of the specific problem domain of that.
In this module you will learn about data preparation and pathologies related to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning, you will apply the methods you have studied in your other AI and ML and your Deep Learning modules, and you will explore knowledge-guided machine learning.
This module addresses one of the most important 'hot topics' in mathematics research - the study of networks - and is essential for understanding the characteristics and universal structural properties of complex networks.
Complex networks are the outcome usually of a stochastic dynamics but they are not completely random.
You will learn how to disentangle randomness from structural organisational principles of complex networks and how several major types of complex network can be described and artificially generated by mathematical models.
Networks characterise the underlying structure of a large variety of complex systems, from the Internet to social networks and the brain.
This course is designed to teach students the mathematical language needed to describe complex networks, their basic properties and dynamics.
The broad aim is to provide students with the key skills required fundamental research in complex networks, and necessary for application of network theory to specific network problems arising in academic or industrial environments.
Supervised research projects will be available in a variety of scientific fields.
These will be offered in-line with the research expertise of the School of Physical and Chemical Sciences and the School of Mathematical Sciences.
A list of potential projects will be added in the coming weeks.
Modules are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and computer lab sessions.
Most modules last one semester only, but Machine and Deep Learning will be taught across both semesters.
You’ll be assigned an Academic Adviser who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters throughout your time at Queen Mary.
You'll also take an active role in your own learning through independent study, reading, writing assignments and revising.
Dr Bevan is a Professor of Physics, specialising in instrumentation, data science and AI, and particle physics.
He is a Turing Fellow, a Fellow of the Institute of Physics and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Dr Bona has focused her research on indirect and direct searches of physics beyond the Standard Model: amongst them, the matter-antimatter unbalance of the universe and the existence and essence of Dark Matter.
Prof Skraba held positions at INRIA, the Jozef Stefan Institute, the University of Primorska, and the University of Nova Gorica before joining Queen Mary.
He is a Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute.
His research is broadly related to data analysis with an emphasis on topological data analysis.
Dr Waldron is an experimental neutrino physicist working on various US-based experiments.
I'm particularly interested in understanding neutrino oscillations and the matter-antimatter asymmetry in our Universe.
My research also includes how neutrinos interact with atomic nuclei and how we can use machine learning to better detect neutrinos interacting in our detectors.
Teaching will take place at our Mile End campus in the heart of East London.
As one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in London, you'll be joining a friendly, vibrant and diverse community.
As well as the Mathematical Sciences building, this includes the new Graduate Centre , providing 7,700 square metres of learning and teaching space.
The campus is 15 minutes by tube from Central London, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, such as Senate House.
The School of Physical and Chemical Sciences (SPCS) is known for its world-leading research, and you’ll be learning from scientists at the forefront of their field.
We’re also known for our outstanding teaching, which was recognised with a LearnSci Teaching Innovation award in 2021.
We’re a friendly, international and intellectually-curious community.
And we’re looking forward to helping you thrive in your area of study and research.
The demand for qualified AI and Machine Learning experts is growing and we are witnessing an explosion of AI opportunities in London .
From environmental science to healthcare, organisations are seeking skilled graduates with hands-on coding and programming skills.
Given the broad scope of this MSc and the focus on developing strong theoretical and practical skills, graduates may wish to consider other sectors such as communications, finance or retail.
Highly sought-after Machine Learning Engineers can earn over £60,000 per year in the UK (Source: Indeed ).
A good 2:2 (55% or above) or above at undergraduate level in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Computing, Engineering or any other STEM subjects.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Physical and Chemical Sciences falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-for-drug-discovery-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science and Chemical Sciences
Artificial Intelligence is revolutionising drug discovery, allowing us to develop better medicines faster.
This MSc will teach you essential concepts of drug discovery and artificial intelligence.
Through intensive training, you'll develop the advanced computational skills required to apply AI techniques to drug discovery.
This programme is ideal for graduates in Chemistry, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Medicinal Chemistry, Biochemistry or a related discipline looking to pursue a career in this rapidly growing field.
The programme has been designed to prepare you for a career in computational drug discovery.
You'll developed advanced computational skills.
We will teach you how to code in Python and how to implement and use machine and deep learning methods in the context of drug discovery, interpret their predictions and assess their quality.
You'll build a solid foundation in the essential concepts of drug discovery such as how to design a molecule to bind a target protein and how to optimise its chemical structure.
You'll have the opportunity to apply your computational skills to drug discovery as you study scientific computing and learn modelling and simulation techniques for biomolecular systems.
A full list of modules can be found below.
The students work on research topics in one of the areas of Artificial Intelligence for drug discovery set by their project supervisors.
This module is designed to teach students about the process of lead compound optimization in drug discovery.
Lead compounds are compounds that show promising activity against a specific target, but often require further modification to improve their efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic properties.
Students will learn how to fine-tune lead compounds through various chemical modifications  to improve their potency, selectivity, pharmacokinetics, and toxicity profiles.
The module will cover topics such as structure-activity relationships, chemical modifications, synthetic viability, ligand efficiency, bioisosteres, prodrugs and ADME/Tox profiling.
This module covers the main principles of in silico ligand-based approaches to drug discovery, with a programming component that builds upon the programming skills developed in CHE709.
Topics include molecular representations, descriptors and fingerprints, molecular similarity, database searches, application of machine learning to QSAR and ADMET prediction.
Tools for the critical assessment of method performance will also be presented.
The module covers advanced deep learning techniques applied to drug discovery.
Topics include chemical datasets for machine learning benchmarking, deep learning for protein structure prediction, binding affinity prediction and virtual screening, and generative models for de novo drug design.
Students will learn both how to use existing applications based on machine learning and how to develop deep learning pipelines in the context of drug discovery through hands-on computational sessions.
This module covers the main molecular modelling techniques used in drug discovery, with emphasis on structure-based approaches.
Topics include protein structure, protein-ligand interactions, classical force fields, homology modelling, molecular docking, structure-based virtual screening and molecular dynamics simulations.
Practical lab sessions will complement face-to-face teaching and provide the students with the opportunity to use a range of popular modelling tools for drug discovery and assess their performance.
The discovery and development of new drugs is critical for improving human health and treating a wide range of diseases.
Medicinal chemistry plays a vital role in the drug discovery and development process by providing the fundamental knowledge and principles necessary to design and optimize drugs with improved efficacy and safety profiles.
This module equips students with a comprehensive understanding of the principles and concepts of medicinal chemistry, including drug targets, drug-receptor interactions and pharmacology.
Students will develop the skills necessary to design and optimize drugs with improved efficacy and safety profiles.
By the end of the module, students will be able to critically evaluate the impact of medicinal chemistry on drug discovery.
This module covers key concepts of scientific programming including variables, data structures, control flow, regular expressions, functions and libraries for data analysis and visualisation.
Use of coding to query chemical databases will also be introduced.
Face-to-face teaching will be followed by practical sessions in the computer lab, where student will have the opportunity to build their coding skills and apply them to data analysis and visualisation in the context of drug discovery using an integrated development environment such as JupyterLab.
The module does not assume any previous knowledge/experience of programming.
You will complete an individual research project working alongside one of our world-leading researchers.
Below is a list of sample research projects.
Please note that these projects are not guaranteed and are subject to the availability of an appropriate supervisor.
- Reducing cardiac cytotoxicity with computational methods - A combined machine learning and synthesis approach to the generation of new cannabinoid mimics with therapeutic potential - Generative models for drug discovery in skeletal and cardiac muscle disease - Ab initio machine learning forcefields to investigate water-protein interactions - Machine learning models for photo-electrochemical reactions - Evaluation of deep learning-based methods for the prediction of peptide-receptor interactions - Machine learning and druggability prediction for target prioritisation - Transfer learning for drug discovery
You’ll be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials and hands-on sessions in the computational lab.
The Department of Chemistry at Queen Mary recently received a LearnSci Teaching Innovation Award for their commitment to new and exciting ways of teaching.
The Department of Chemistry is currently ranked 8th in the UK for its research impact according to the 2021 REF results.
You will be taught by - and conduct research with - world-leading academics and members of Queen Mary's Physical and Computational Chemistry, and Synthesis and Catalysis research groups.
Owen Benton is a theoretical Condensed Matter Physicist who uses both analytical and numerical methods to investigate the properties of interacting many-body systems.
Benton studied at the University of Warwick and the University of Bristol.
He spent seven years in Japan at the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology and the RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science.
Benton's research aims to explore the diverse phenomena emerging from many-body systems and explain the surprising experimental results they demonstrate.
Dr Giorgio Chianello is a Senior Lecturer in Chemistry, Outreach and Public Engagement Coordinator and Senior Tutor for the Department of Chemistry.
He is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a Member of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Before joining QMUL as an academic Giorgio's background was based on nanotechnology and drug delivery.
However, he is now involved in educational research focused on new teaching technologies and enhancing diversity and inclusion within the scientific community.
Devis graduated in Chemistry completed his Ph.D.
in 2006, focusing on density functional theory methods for molecular photoionization.
He conducted postdoctoral research at the Royal Institution of Great Britain then moved to University College London, specialising in computer simulation methods for studying metal carbonate growth.
In 2013, he joined Queen Mary and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020.
Devis group works in the development and application of computational chemistry methods, including machine learning, on topic related to CO2 conversion to value-added chemicals and materials.
Dr Arianna Fornili is a Senior Lecturer in Computational Organic Chemistry and former Intermediate Basic Science Research Fellow of the British Heart Foundation.
She joined QMUL after holding postdoctoral research associate positions at the Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics (King’s College London) and the DIBIT San Raffaele Scientific Institute in Milan.
Her group (https://afornililab.wordpress.com/) specializes in computational protein dynamics modeling to understand function, uncover disease mechanisms, and design therapeutic molecules.
Chris is a Senior Lecturer at Queen Mary University of London.
He earned his MSci in Natural Sciences and his PhD in organic chemistry from the University of Cambridge.
After his PhD, he worked as a Junior Research Fellow at the University of Oxford with Professor Timothy J.
Donohoe.
Chris joined QMUL in 2013 as a Ramsay Memorial Research Fellow and received an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship in 2015.
His research focuses on developing new synthetic organic methods, particularly in aryne chemistry and functional carbon nanomaterial preparation.
Dr Wojciech Kopec is a Lecturer in Computational Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the Department of Chemistry, working on biophysical mechanisms and pharmacology of ion channels using computational approaches.
This programme is excellent preparation for a career in drug discovery and development.
You will be well placed for roles such as:
The computational skills developed can also be applied to a wide range of sectors and industries.
Graduates will also be well-equipped for further research and may be interested in Queen Mary's AI for Drug Discovery Doctoral Training Programme.
A good 2:2 (55% or above) or above at undergraduate level in Chemistry, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Medicinal Chemistry, Biochemistry, Pharmacy, Biomedical Sciences or a related discipline.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/artificial-intelligence-in-the-biosciences-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science and Biological and Biomedical Sciences
Applications of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools in the biosciences are rapidly expanding and bioscientists skilled in the methods and thinking in AI are in short supply.
This programme aims to prepare bioscience graduates to become leaders in the application of AI methods in professional bioscience Research and Development workplace environments.
It has been specifically designed to make AI and related computational techniques (machine learning, analysis of large data sets) accessible to biology and biomedical graduate students without any prior experience in computational methods.
View application deadlines
This multifaceted programme builds the knowledge and skills needed to kick-start your career in professional bioscience research, consulting, and development.
Teaching is jointly delivered by experts in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and The School of Mathematical Sciences and will cover areas such as applications of AI and Data Science in Biology, Ecology, and Biomedicine, alongside technical skills such as coding, statistics, and the analysis of large datasets.
You’ll also benefit from Queen Mary’s strong links to the AI sector, with the university being a member of the Alan Turing Institute and home to the Digital Environment Research Institute (DERI), one of the UK’s leading centres for AI research and innovation.
In Semester A, you will cover essential shell command and HPC usage, coding for statistical data analysis, and an introduction to AI concepts, with a strong emphasis on real-world applications in bioinformatics.
In Semester B, you’ll explore the full range of AI applications in the biosciences, from established methodologies to the latest cutting-edge developments and trends.
You'll also develop expertise in modern, computation-intensive statistical methods, gaining valuable hands-on experience in Queen Mary’s high-performance computing cluster, Apocrita.
In Semester C, you will carry out two group projects, solving bioscience problems using AI techniques to translate your knowledge into professional skills.
The first project will provide a well-defined problem to help you structure an efficient group approach, while the second will present a more open-ended bioscience challenge, simulating real-world industry scenarios.
Throughout the programme, you’ll have opportunities to network with peers from diverse academic and professional backgrounds, fostering valuable connections for future careers.
Located in London, the heart of the UK’s AI industry, this programme places you in a prime position to seize abundant job opportunities in this rapidly growing field.
This module provides you with an opportunity to further develop and apply skills learned during the previous MSc Artificial Intelligence in the Biosciences modules, by conducting a novel piece of Artificial Intelligence / machine learning work, typically within an active research group either within QMUL or at a partner organisation.
The specific nature of each project will be determined through discussions between you, the course organiser and the project supervisor but will always involve bioscience problem involving complex data in a cutting edge area of biological or biomedical research.
This serves as excellent preparation for future employment or PhD.
This module provides an introduction to data science and AI, focusing specifically on the analysis of molecular data produced by methods such as transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Lectures cover the methods, algorithms and resources used for tasks such as the identification and quantitation proteins and metabolites, determination of protein structure, discovery and recognition of patterns in these data using exploratory analysis and machine learning, data integration, interpretation of data in the context of prior knownledge, and large scale analysis of the interaction between biological molecules.
Practical exercises are used to gain experience with software tools, data formats and databases of relevance to this field.
This module provides a hands-on introduction to computer programming (popularly known as 'coding') using a scripting language popular in the field.
The focus is on producing robust software for repeatable data-centric scientific work.
Key programming concepts are introduced, and these concepts are then brought together in answer biologically relevant questions.
This module is focussed on teaching statistical data analysis using the programming language R.
The module will cover an introduction to coding with R, exploratory data analysis and visualisation, and fundamentals of statistical testing and learning.
The module is taught through both theoretical lectures and computing practicals, the latter comprising of hands-on analysis of experimental data sets.
This module provides an introduction to the management and analysis of big data, focusing specifically on the analysis of genome sequence data.
Lectures first introduce relevant data types and data handling skills.
They subsequently cover the bioinformatics methods, algorithms and resources used for tasks such as read cleaning, genome assembly, gene finding, variant calling, population genomics, and caveats and quality control approaches for such analyses Practical exercises are used to imbue experience of the Unix command line, high performance computing, and the use of these technologies to run computationally intensive genome analysis tools.
This module will provide you an overview of successes and limitations of applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in basic and applied ecology and evolutionary biology.
It will cover a wide range of topics such as monitoring and ID of species and individuals from image, video and sound; forecasting of population time series; species distribution modelling; modelling of derived metrics, e.g.
for ecosystem service; automated taxonomic classification.
Selected examples are developed in depth in both lectures and practicals.
This module will provide you an overview of successes and limitations of applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in physiology and biomedicine.
It will cover a wide range of topics such as image diagnostic tools, medial risk assessment and prognosis, individualised medicine, drug discovery, protein folding, and classification of microbial communities.
Social, ethical, and economic implications are discussed.
In this module, students are organised into small teams (~3-4 members per team).
All teams are given the same problem to solve: to accurately reconstruct missing data in a large, complex bioscience data set using machine learning techniques.
Each team must design an appropriate ML methodology and implementation plan, with specific tasks assigned to individual team members.
The distribution of effort within teams is documented through an in-team peer review mechanism.
Each team member will present the team's work in a report.
Reconstructions will be compared after reports are submitted.
Since teams will develop their own quality criteria, there may be several "best" solutions.
The programme will be assessed through an exciting and varied combination of essays, practical assignments, group projects, workshops and presentations.
The group projects are assessed on the data analysis code produced and the presentation of the project results in a report and an oral group presentation.
This course has been developed and is taught by experts in their fields.
You’ll attend a series of lectures, seminars, tutorials and workshops in the PC laboratory.
There will be a mixture of both individual and group-based exercises and discussions.
You will also be expected to complete further hours of independent study by reading designated material, producing written assignments and completing projects.
To help you along your journey, you’ll also be assigned an Academic Adviser who will guide and support you throughout the course.
Students are also strongly encouraged to attend the School Seminar series.
Professor Conrad Bessant is the Head of Bioinformatics at Queen Mary.
Professor Bessant consistently publishes in high-impact journals and continues to conduct ground-breaking research in the development of new and improved methodologies via his research group.
Dr Ian Mcfadden teaches on the "AI and data analytics in ecology and evolution" module and leads the "Missing data" group project.
Dr Mohamed Elbadawi is the module lead for ‘AI and Data Analytics in Physiology and Biomedicine’.
Dr Elbadawi’s research centres on the use of digital technologies to advance healthcare, including machine learning, robotics and 3D printers.
He has been named on the ‘Stanford Top 2% Scientist’ for two consecutive years.
Matteo Fumagalli is a Senior Lecturer in Genetics at Queen Mary University of London and affiliated with the Digital Environment Research Institute (DERI).
They specialize in using statistics and computer science to address human genetics and evolutionary biology questions.
Dr Axel Rossberg is theoretical ecologist whose research focuses on macroecology and food webs.
He is also interested in the role of finance in biodiversity conservation.
Dr Rossberg has served as an expert advisor to Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) and was a lead author of IPBES Regional assessment of biodiversity and ecosystem services for Europe and Central Asia.
PhD
Dr Fabrizio Smeraldi is an award-winning lecturer who specialises in bioinformatics.
Fabrizio’s expertise and passion for subject matter has led to guest visits to labs around the world, from Italy to Japan.
He has also published a large number of academic journals.
Published author Prof Yannick Wurm is an active researcher in ants, bees, genomes and evolution.
Prof Wurm leads a lab in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and continues to teach both undergraduate and postgraduate students in bioinformatics.
You will be studying at the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences and partially at the School of Mathematical Sciences on the Mile End campus in East London.
The central location offers easy transport links to all areas of the capital and you have the opportunity to take advantage of all the capital has to offer, including access to our partner libraries across the city.
London is the hub of the UK AI industry, which will place you in prime position for getting a job in the sector when you graduate.
View tour of Mathematical Sciences Building
The School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences is one of the UK’s leading research departments, with a multi-disciplinary approach to teaching and research.
We are a large and dynamic school with strong links with industry, offering students a stimulating and supportive learning experience.
Queen Mary University is also part of the Russell Group - a body of leading UK universities dedicated to research and teaching excellence.
We also collaborate with the School of Geography on the Centre for the Aquatic Terrestrial Environment (CATE) .
The facilities of which, some students can access for specific projects or modules.
Graduates of this program will have a distinct competitive advantage in seeking employment.
Not only do they demonstrate that they can cross traditionally distant disciplines but they also will show that they understand the applications of AI to biology and biomedicine.
The data analysis and coding skills that we teach are highly sought after not only by employers in the areas of biology and biomedicine, but across a wide range of sectors.
Graduates will find employment opportunities throughout the agro- and biotechnology industry, pharmaceutical companies, universities, medical research institutes, in governmental agencies, in non-profit organisations, and as data scientists, software engineers or consultants in a wide range of sectors.
Potential employers are invited to participate in the group project presentation seminars in Semester C and arrangements are made for networking between employers and students after the presentations.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a Science subject such as Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics or a related subject.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences falls within the following English band:
Please note, there are some postgraduate programmes with non-standard English language requirements in this School.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/bioinformatics-msc:
Biological sciences are more data driven than ever before and bioinformatics is now central to modern biological research.
This programme will teach you how to analyse, integrate, visualise and manipulate large datasets, make new discoveries and reveal new insights in biological sciences.
New analytical techniques deliver ever more data about genes, proteins, metabolites and the interactions between them.
There is a high demand across the life sciences for trained bioinformaticians who can turn this data into useful information and new biological knowledge.
Specifically designed for students with bioscience backgrounds, this masters programme teaches you specialised skills needed to manage and analyse datasets, including computer programming, data analysis and statistics.
The research preparation and tailor-made multidisciplinary training you receive are of the highest standard available.
In the second semester, you have the opportunity to delve into a topic that interests you and conduct your own substantial six-month research project.
This module provides an opportunity to further develop and apply skills learned during the previous MSc Bioinformatics modules, by conducting a novel piece of bioinformatics work, typically within an active research group either within QMUL or at a partner organisation.
The specific nature of each project will be determined through discussions between the student, the course organiser and the project supervisor but will always involve data analysis and/or software development in a cutting edge area of biological or biomedical research.
In this module, students are organised in small teams (up to 5 members per team).
Each team is given the same written specification for a piece of software that must be delivered by the end of the module.
Each team must design an appropriate software architecture and development plan, with specific tasks assigned to individual team members.
The project involves elements from the previous bioinformatics modules (genomics, post-genomics, coding and statistics) as well as new topics that are introduced during the module.
This module serves as a simulation of a real software development environment, providing invaluable experience for future employability.
You will be assessed through practical assignments, presentations and a 10,000 word dissertation.
The final research project is your chance to conduct in-depth independent research on a topic that is of interest to you and your career goals.
Recent projects include:
Even though I have chosen a route in academia, the programming skills and expertise of the Bioinformatics MSc can be applied to handle any type of data, including industry.
Completing this MSc helped to open up my career options and allowed me to choose what I really wanted to do.
Nazrath Nawaz, MSc Bioinformatics (2016).
Now a PhD student in Computational Biology at Queen Mary University of London.
This programme is devised and delivered by world-leading academics who are actively engaged in developing bioinformatics tools.
The lecturers on this programme have specialist expertise in genome sequencing, proteomics, evolution, ecology, psychology, cancer, diabetes and other diseases.
We also have an extensive network of academic and industrial collaborators around the UK and in Europe, who contribute to teaching, co-supervise projects and provide employment opportunities.
You will undertake modules at Queen Mary’s Mile End campus in exciting east London.
Mile End is the heart of our lively student community.
Here you’ll be able to study and socialise with students and staff from over 160 countries around the world.
During your studies you'll have access to support at every stage in your degree, including one-to-one academic guidance, tailored workshops, and external guest speakers.
Graduates of this course are well-placed to progress onto PhD research or careers in industry, consultancy and conservation.
Graduates from this course have progressed to:
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Biology or a relevant natural sciences subject.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/business-analytics-msc:
Part of: Business and Management , AI, Computer and Data Science and Mathematical Sciences
With the increasing use of data in business decision making, there is a need for graduates with a strong understanding of the tools and methodologies used for business analysis.
Learn to interpret data and use the results to inform business direction.
Gain the skills needed to excel in all sectors of the global economy.
This programme is jointly run by the School of Business and Management and School of Mathematical Sciences .
Students will have the opportunity to develop their mathematical and statistical knowledge, as well as gain practical experience of using leading software tools.
The course material aims to equip students with the skills to manage IT and analytics specialists, and to understand the leadership and organisational challenges associated with the digitisation of business processes.
It examines how robust findings can be obtained from analytics and applied to the direction of businesses.
The programme is taught using real-world cases from different markets and countries, and draws on the experience of an advisory group of current managers from real digital businesses.
Summer placement opportunities with these industry partners may be available.
This module is the capstone module for the MSc in Business Analytics.
Students will work in groups and will be required to provide analysis of a problem or question using complex data from a business context.
Each group will be assigned a Mentor who will guide the group through the process of structuring the analytical problem, obtaining and organising the data, data analysis and presentation of results.
Final assessment will be based on individual essays which cover specific aspects of the case and student's reflection in the light of Business Analytics methods and theories.
The Masterclass in Business Analytics introduces students to current industrial and commercial business analytics practices.
This is done through three components: 1.
A hands-on experience with industry-popular Machine-Learning software packages; 2.
Descriptions of recent Big-Data projects, initiatives and business models from leading corporations and organisations; and 3.
Direct interaction with London-based industry experts through class presentations.
The module will familiarise students with the fundamentals of effective leadership in analytical initiatives/project teams including the difference between leading and managing initiatives/projects, dealing with resistance, knowledge hoarding and different stakeholder interests, transactional versus transformational leadership, inspiring peers and subordinates effective communication, trust and knowledge sharing within and across teams and other stakeholders, presenting and pitching concepts and results, managing the organisational synergy of a team and dealing with acceleration and over-acceleration in analytical projects.
This module will explore various theoretical approaches used to explain what markets managers choose to compete within, why and how.
We will begin by examining the "traditional" competitive positioning and resource-based views, and critically evaluate these analytical approaches and their appropriateness in an increasingly networked, globalised, digitised and fluid competitive environment.
The module will then provide an overview of the emerging literature on the application and use of big data and data analytics within organisations.
This compulsory module is taught in Semester 2  building on statistical methods  in Data Analytics module in Semester 1.
The module introduces students to the problem of causal inference,  theories of causality and  causal effects empirical methods.
The  focus is on randomised controlled trials in similar settings.
Students  learn about different econometric techniques to identify causal effects and their strengths and weaknesses.
Data collection and organisation of real or natural experiments,  data analysis and reporting results to non-specialists is covered.
This 0-credit module covers Mathematics and Statistics topics which are useful for the different quantitative modules and MSc dissertations.
The Mathematics topics include: linear and non linear equations, differentiation, growth and discounting and logarithms.
The Statistics topics include: descriptive statistics, probabilities and distributions.
Data Analytics refers to the use of statistics and machine learning in inferring information from data sets, with the ultimate goal of gaining insight and aiding decision-making.
This module introduces statistical modelling, regression analysis, and machine learning, and the use of the R software environment in analyzing data.
In business environments the ability to use key software packages is vital, particularly the universally used Microsoft Office portfolio.
This module will teach you how to customise and program two key aspects of Microsoft Office used in Analytics; the database package Access and the spreadsheet software Excel.
This module is key for students wishing to further their understanding of the visualisation techniques used in business decision processes using the powerful SAS Visual Analytics software.
You will learn Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), the most prevalent programming language in industry and some Structured Query Language (SQL) for data manipulation.
The course is taught by an actuary with 15 years industry experience in this area.
Optimisation refers to the selection of the best alternative, according to some criterion, from a set of available alternatives.
This module introduces standard models from mathematical optimisation, like network flows and linear programmes, and their use in solving real-world optimisation problems; in staff and project scheduling, commodity trading, production, and sales.
Tutorials focus on modelling of real-world optimisation problems based on data, and on the use of software such as R, Excel, and Gurobi to solve optimisation problems and make better decisions.
This module will provide students with a general understanding of current applications of data analytics to finance and in particular to derivatives and investment banking.
It will introduce a range of analytical tools such as volatility surface management, yield curve evolution and FX volatility/correlation management.
It will also provide you with an overview of some standard tools in the field such as Python, R, Excel/VBA and the Power BI Excel functionality.
Students are not expected to have any familiarity with coding or any of the topics above, as the module will develop these from scratch.
It will provide you with the understanding of a field necessary to prepare for a career in finance in roles such as trading, structuring, management, risk management and quantitative positions in investment banks and hedge funds.
The structure and dynamics of various complex networks (e.g.
World Wide Web, online social, intra/interorganisational, im/export trade networks) are examined.
A unified theoretical framework to analyse sociologically relevant phenomena exhibiting complex dynamic network structures (e.g.
information diffusion, cultural fads, financial crises, and viral marketing) is the aim.
Innovation, to uncover the structural foundations of knowledge creation, transfer, sharing, and diffusion in various empirical domains is emphasised from an interdisciplinary perspective by combining current research on complex networks with contributions from relevant organisational and sociological research.
The module will focus on project management techniques, methodologies, theories appropriate to projects that deliver complex outcomes in a context of high uncertainty on the desired result.
The module will also provide team and teaming management principles and practices needed to obtain the desired project management results within time, budget and quality.
Students will be encouraged to take advantage of opportunities to earn an accreditation for project management and the course will prepare students for this additional examination.
We will also help develop your skills, abilities and behaviour towards entrepreneurial venturing, whether in established organisations or new ventures.
Although business is an important context for this course, the process, skills and ideas we will address are also important for social, sustainability and third sector innovation, and intrapreneurial activities inside established organisations.
We will also address broad issues about entrepreneurship, and how it can lead to social benefits and economic value.
The module is intended to draw together learning from many different functional areas that students will have already covered in the past - marketing, strategy, finance, law etc.
Summative assessment of taught course units will use various methods, ranging from conventional academic coursework and examinations through to shorter specific exercises and analyses of data.
Formative assessment will take place using class presentations and debates, short written exercises and group work.
Work completed for the Masterclass and Group Project modules are examined on the basis of a written report, a formal oral presentation, and a demonstration of the insights gained from the projects.
The projects will have two examiners each, with a third if there is disagreement.
You will w ork in a group to provide analysis of a problem or question, using complex data from a business context.
This data is usually supplied by a partner company.
"The world-class facilities and educators have helped me to better understand coding and implement it in real-world situations.
For our final project, we had the chance to experience working with one of the top fintech companies in London.
Queen Mary has so many perks to offer, other than just being a student!"
Sarita Saraswati, Business Analytics MSc, 2022
Our interdisciplinary approach ensures a fully rounded business education, and includes lectures led by experienced academics and interaction with Queen Mary’s independent Virtual Learning Environment, QMplus.
You will gain invaluable insight from guest speakers, get hands-on experience using industry-leading software and take part in interactive seminars, presentations and lively group discussions with your peers.
Dr Demirel worked as a researcher at the Max Planck Institute, Dresden.
His research focuses on complex systems, investigating the resilience of supply networks, international business networks, and ecological networks.
Markopoulos bridges industry and academia, with his wealth of experience in practical research and industrial projects and initiatives.
As a computer scientist, he worked at ΙΒΜ, Siemens and at AT&T Bell Laboratories.
Markopoulos has since taught in UK business schools for many years, including Queen Mary, UCL, University of Essex, Royal Holloway University of London, SOAS, and HULT.
Dr del Bano Rollin has previously held a number of senior positions in investment banking.
In these roles, he focussed on using mathematical finance (stochastic processes, numerical analysis, and partial differential equations) and technology to generate revenue through trading and risk management.
Dr Von Gravenitz is a widely published, well-respected voice in his field.
He is actively involved in the development of empirical research involving trade mark data.
He has advised competition and regulatory authorities, and international organizations, including the European Commission, WIPO, EPO, IPO UK.
Zeynep’s main research interests are experimental and behavioural economics, applied microeconomics, and game theory.
She uses empirical and experimental data to conduct her research on digital economy.
She is particularly interested in investigating the role of innovative technologies in energy sustainability, climate change mitigation and adaptation.
She also analyses market mechanisms enabled by blockchain and advises start-ups focusing on disruptive business models in this domain.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
The campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s facilities, including the Senate House library.
Research in the School of Mathematical Sciences covers a range of subjects in pure and applied mathematics, and is consolidated into research groups reflecting the School's key strengths.
We've invested approximately £18 million in our building to provide state-of-the-art facilities for staff and students.
We hold an Athena Swan Bronze award.
The university's close connections with businesses in the United Kingdom and France provide students with opportunities to network with practitioners during guest lectures and project work done for the businesses as clients.
This course provides graduates with an excellent foundation to pursue roles in data analysis and consulting, in a variety of different industries.
Alumni from the course are now working in roles such as: Data Science Specialist, Data Analyst, Digital Strategy Analyst, Product Specialist and Senior Business Intelligence Developer.
"According to recent industry research, the biggest skills gaps in the technology sector are found in the field of business analytics; therefore, graduates who have good intuition and can translate statistical data intelligently are ‘rock stars’ in the organisations they work for."
Dr Georg Von Graevenitz, Programme Director, Business Analytics MSc
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in any subject, provided the degree contains good levels of study of Mathematics and Statistics.
Subjects likely to contain sufficient quantitative elements include Mathematics, Sciences, Engineering, Computer Science, Economics and Finance.
Students from less quantitatively oriented degrees, such as Accounting, Management and Politics, are welcome if they have focused on the more quantitative elements of those degrees.
Candidates that do not currently meet the set entry requirements may also have the option to study the Graduate Diploma in Finance and Economics .
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MSc Business Analytics.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught in the School of Business and Management falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/computer-games-msc:
Video games are a $140bn+ global industry where creativity meets computing.
This programme will give you the skills to design and develop games with state-of-the-art tools and technologies.
You'll learn about the latest developments in artificial intelligence and machine learning, and how they are being applied in the games industry.
We are home to a world-leading research group in Games and AI, as well as the IGGI PhD programme, a UK-wide community of over 60 PhD students in games research.
Our world-class teaching, research and industrial contacts will support you as you learn to describe, compare and apply a range of AI, machine learning and data science methods to the development and design of games.
The taught modules aim to teach you to:
You will work closely with your lecturers and supervisors to carry out a major project on a computer games topic that you want to specialise in.
This module covers the fundamentals of game development in a multi-platform (consoles, PC, Web and mobile devices) environment.
The course focuses on development of 3D games, covering all aspects of game development: the game loop, math, physics, audio, graphics, input, animations, particle systems and artificial intelligence.
This module has a strong programming content, required for laboratories and assignments.
The practical aspects will be taught using a popular game development platform.
The main assignment of this module consists of the development of a full game at the student's choice.
This module covers games programming in C++, assuming the student has experience with object-oriented programming.
The module introduces the C++ language and uses it to explores a range of topics in games programming, including 2D and 3D graphics, OpenGL, physics, input systems, and the use of C++ in modern game engines.
It emphasises a practical approach to programming, with the students developing playable games for the final assessment.
This module covers the fundamental principles of game design and provides a practical introduction to the game design process, relevant to both physical and digital games.
It examines games in terms of their formal and dramatic elements, and how these combine to create experiences for players.
Students are guided through the process of developing their own non-digital games, from initial concept, through prototyping and playtesting, to a final design.
Modern video games employ various agents that interact with the player as opponents or characters, and that generate new content.
This module covers the broad range of computational approaches developers currently use to create these in-game agents.
The first part deals with techniques for authoring agent behaviour.
The second part explores approaches procedural content generation for environments, narrative and others forms of game content.
This modules explores computational and data-oriented approaches to game design, drawing on both latest academic research and games industry practice .
Topics include formal models of games, applications of game theory, game description languages, player modelling, gameplay and experience metrics, games user research, game analytics, and automated playtesting and game tuning  The module is taught through a mixture of lectures, labs and seminars, with guest speakers from academia and the games industry.
There will be two main areas of content for this module: (i) creative AI procedures and practice and (ii) philosophical issues of Computational Creativity.
The first area will cover the application of well-known AI techniques such as Deep Learning and Markov Models to generative projects, as well as ad-hoc techniques.
These will be illustrated with applications in music, the visual arts and video game design, considering issues of human-computer interaction in these domains.
The second area will raise and discuss questions around the value of having autonomous and semi-autonomous creative AI systems in society, drawing on philosophy, sociology, psychology and cognitive science, as well as engineering disciplines.
This module covers a range of Artificial Intelligence techniques employed in games, and teaches how games are and can be used for research in Artificial Intelligence.
This module has a strong programming component.
The module explores algorithms for creating agents that play classical board games (such as chess or checkers) and real-time games (Mario or PacMan), including single agents able to play multiple games.
The module gives an overview of multiple techniques, such as Monte Carlo Tree Search, Evolutionary Computation, Deep and Machine Learning applied to games.
The MSc project gives you an opportunity to apply the techniques and technologies that you have learnt to a significant advanced project.
Projects will either be significantly development based or have a research focus that will require you to undertake practical work.
All projects will be expected either to investigate or to make use of techniques that are at the leading edge.
This course is concerned primarily with computer graphics systems and in particular 3D computer graphics.
The course will include revision of fundamental raster algorithms such as polygon filling and quickly move onto the specification, modeling and rendering of 3D scenes.
In particular the following topics may be covered: viewing in 2D,data structures for the representation of 3D polyhedra, viewing in 3D, visibility and hidden surface algorithms, illumination computations.
Some attention will be paid to human perception of colour and interactive 3D such as virtual reality.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/computer-science-conversion-msc:
Prepare to break into tech with this conversion MSc programme, designed for highly-motivated graduates from any discipline who are eager to move into the tech industry, even without prior computing experience.
Prepare to enhance your employability by leveraging computer science.
Develop specialist technical skills while integrating your existing knowledge and experience.
Students also have the opportunity to participate in an industrial-linked project during the summer, subject to competitive application.
This programme aims to equip students with both theoretical insights and practical skills in computer science.
Emphasising practical application, it focuses on software engineering, computer systems, and their real-world applications.
Core modules introduce fundamental computing concepts, complemented by specialised courses in database systems and software engineering—critical for aspiring professionals in computer science.
Students can tailor their studies by selecting either the Business or Software Systems streams, culminating in a substantial final project.
All students studying MSc Computer Science (Conversion) will undertake six compulsory modules:
They will also choose a set of elective modules, organised into two streams:
Software Systems stream (default)
Business Systems stream
The Software Systems stream is the default stream students will follow, if they do not select an option.
Modules are assessed through a combination of coursework and written examinations.
You will also be assessed through a final project.
Part-time study options often mean that the number of modules taken is reduced per semester, with the full modules required to complete the programme spread over two academic years.
MSc PhD SMIEEE
Dr Mondragon’s research covers the areas of complex networks; characterisation and topological modelling of large networks.
He has published approximately 90 papers in this area.
He teaches modules on Security and Authentication.
BSc MSc PhD
Dr Poslad is the Director of MSc Internet of Things and the IoT Lab.
He has a BSc in physics, undertook research on ferrofluids.
He did his PhD on sensing artificial lungs during open-heart surgery and contributes to advancing AI, data science, geoscience, bio-things, physical human behaviour and location awareness data analysis.
The campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, such as the Senate House library.
Recent graduates of this course have found employment as IT Consultants, Specialist Engineers, Web Developers, Systems Analysts, Software Designers and Network Engineers, in a wide variety of industries and sectors.
A number of past students have also gone on to undertake PhDs in electronic engineering and computer science.
Organisations that have recently employed School of EECS graduates include Merrill Lynch, Microsoft, Nokia, Barclays Capital, Logica, Credit Suisse, KPMG, Transport for London, Sky and Selex ES.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in  a degree not related to Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology or Electronic Engineering.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/computer-science-by-research-msc:
This programme is suitable for outstanding students who have an interest in advanced research-based study.
This programme offers you a route to further study at doctoral level or for a research position in industry.
You will join one of our research groups, and complete an extended research project.
In this way, you will have the opportunity to develop further research and technical skills and demonstrate a level of independence that is greater than that offered on a purely taught programme.
You will be able to focus on the area of your choice, from one of our research specialisms:
To further develop your specialism you will select four taught modules from all those available, which are relevant to your project.
Your research project will be conducted under close supervision throughout the academic year.
Teaching for modules includes a combination of lectures, seminars and use of a virtual learning environment.
You will be assigned an Academic Adviser who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters throughout your time at Queen Mary.
Dr Bozkurt’s research concerns service oriented architecture and web services, software testing, search-based software engineering, requirements engineering, cloud computing and cloud services.
He is a member of the Risk Information Management Group.
Dr Fazekas is interested in extracting, analysing and linking data about music and developing applications that use semantic metadata, bringing the power of semantic technologies to music technology.
He is leading Queen Mary’s team of the EU-funded AudioCommons project.
Dr Stockman researches human-computer interaction, auditory displays and data sonification.
His recent publications include a paper entitled “Augmented visuotactile feedback support sensorimotor synchronization skill for rehabilitation”, in partnership with F.
Feng.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s main Mile End campus, one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
The research focus of this programme prepares students to continue on to doctoral-level study, or for research positions in industry.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject.
Offers are subject to the agreement of a suitable research proposal, which must identify the intended research project supervisor.
Find out more about our Academics.
Please note that this programme may require ATAS, find out more here: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/welfare/visas-international-advice/visas-for-study/atas/
If you're an international student you'll need to get ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) approval, which will extend the visa application process by 2-4 weeks.
Find out more about ATAS

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/data-analytics-msc:
Part of: Mathematical Sciences and AI, Computer and Data Science
In today's data-driven economy, organisations need data experts to extract clear insights and inform decision making.
This masters will teach you the core mathematical principles of data analysis and AI, and how to apply these to real-world scenarios.
You will also develop the programming, machine learning and visualisation skills employers need.
Our unique blend of key theoretical knowledge and in-demand practical skills will help you future-proof your career in Data Analytics and AI.
In the first semester, you will complete the compulsory modules that provide a foundation in data analytics, machine learning, and the statistics of data analysis.
You will build upon this knowledge working with industry-standard tools and software.
In the second semester, you will decide on your specialism.
This part of the programme has been designed to prepare you for specific career paths, so what you study will depend on what you wish to do in the future.
Our specialisms, also known as streams, can be found below.
We've highlighted the skills you will develop and the potential career paths for each stream.
We offer all students the opportunity to take the Microsoft Office Specialist qualification which includes valuable expertise in Excel.
Applied Machine Learning
You will learn to use mathematical, computational and statistical techniques to design, implement, and evaluate machine learning models to solve real-world problems.
Potential career opportunities in developing and deploying predictive tools in Finance, Healthcare, Retail, and Manufacturing sectors among others.
Pattern Recognition and Deep Learning
You will learn to use mathematical, computational and statistical techniques extract key insights from different types of data.
Potential career opportunities in Tech, Finance, Healthcare, Retail, Automotive, and Manufacturing sectors.
Statistical Inference
You will learn to use mathematical, computational and statistical techniques to analyze data, draw meaningful conclusions, and contribute to evidence-based decision-making across application domains.
Potential career opportunities in Finance, Healthcare, Retail, and Manufacturing sectors, among others.
In the third semester, over the summer, you will work alongside one of our researchers on an independent research project.
This will consolidate your learning and allow you to develop strong applied data science skills.
You do not need to be a programming expert.
You will explore a variety of data analysis tools (such as R and Python), which will allow you to choose which technologies you want to specialise in.
Structure
In Semester A ,you will take four modules:
In Semester B, you can choose one of three streams:
Choose two electives from:
Information about the modules for 2025/26 is available here
Examples of possible projects include:
You will learn primarily through a combination of lectures and tutorials, in addition to a significant amount of independent study and research.
You will be assigned an Academic Adviser who will guide you throughout your time at Queen Mary.
The School of Mathematical Sciences also has a dedicated Student Support Officer to provide you with advice and guidance, with a focus on non-academic issues.
Alex Shestopaloff is a Senior Lecturer in Statistics at the School of Mathematical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London and a Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute.
He is interested in statistical computing, in particular, Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods for performing Bayesian inference for complex stochastic models.
Before joining QMUL he was a Research Fellow at The Alan Turing Institute and completed his PhD in Statistics at the University of Toronto in 2016.
Mark Jerrum is a Professor of Mathematics.
His research interests lie in combinatorics, computational complexity and stochastic processes.
All of these ingredients come together in the study of randomised algorithms: computational procedures that exploit the surprising power of making random choices.
A strong theme in this work is the analysis of the mixing time of combinatorially or geometrically defined Markov chains.
Vito Latora is Professor of Applied Mathematics, Chair of Complex Systems and Head of the Complex Systems and Networks Unit at the School of Mathematical Sciences of Queen Mary University of London.
He has expertise in complex systems, with a particular focus on the analysis and modelling of complex networks.
His current interests include multiplex networks and higher-order networks, and their applications to socio-economic systems and to the human brain.
Dr Melania Nica is a Senior Lecturer in Actuarial Science and Programme Director for MSc Actuarial Science and Data Analytics.
She obtained her PhD in Economics at London School of Economics where she worked on applications of economic theory.
After her PhD, she taught at the New College of Humanities, before moving to the University of Kent.
At Kent, she became the Programme Director for all taught postgraduate Actuarial Science programmes, before joining Queen Mary in 2022.
Dr Nica’s research interests include finance and insurance, based on application of economic theory.
Dr Perra is a Reader in Applied Mathematics and Programme Director for MSc Data Analytics.
His research focuses on human dynamics, data analytics, network science, mathematical and digital epidemiology.​ After completing his PhD in theoretical physics at the University of Cagliari (Italy), he held various positions at Indiana University, Northeastern University, and Greenwich University.
Dr Vergel is Programme Director for MSc Financial Mathematics.
He holds a PhD in Mathematical Finance from the University of London and has postgraduate studies in Financial Engineering, Financial Economics and Econometrics, and Enterprise Resource Planning Software.
Previously, he has held senior roles in investment banking, alternative fund management, tech companies, government advisory and consultancy.
He has expertise in devising investment strategies and market intelligence.
Research in the School of Mathematical Sciences covers a diverse range of subjects in pure and applied mathematics, and is consolidated into research groups reflecting the School’s key strengths.
We have  invested approximately £18 million in our building to provide state-of-the-art research, teaching and study facilities for staff and students.
The University holds a university-level Silver Award for the Athena SWAN Charter, which recognises and celebrates good employment practice for women working in mathematics, science, engineering and technology in Higher Education and research.
The School of Mathematical Sciences holds its own department-level Athena Swan Bronze award.
We are a registered Supporter of the LMS Good Practice Scheme .
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2014), Queen Mary ranked ninth in the UK among multi-faculty universities and fifth for our percentage of 3* and 4* research outputs.
In our data-driven economy, companies are seeking highly numerate data experts who can use statistical techniques and the latest technologies to extract clear insights to inform every aspect of their strategy and operations.
Students who have graduated from this programme have gone into a variety of data analysis, data science and software development roles including Data Science Consultant, AI Scientist, Pricing Analyst, Customer Insights Analyst, Senior Product Data Analyst, APP Development Specialist, Quantitative Risk Analyst, Market Risk Analyst and more.
Recent employers of our graduates include British Airways, Ocado, Accenture, PwC, KPMG, UBS, BlackRock, London Stock Exchange Group, Canary Wharf Group, Tata Consultancy Services and Bloomberg.
A good 2:2 (55% or above) or above at undergraduate level in a subject with substantial mathematical content, including Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Engineering, Economics and Computer Science..
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Mathematics falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/data-science-msc:
This programme is designed to address the growing demand for highly skilled data scientists and engineers capable of combining advanced computer science techniques with modern statistical methods to extract insights and create data-driven services.
We offer world-leading expertise and industry partnerships to equip students with essential skills in statistical data modeling, visualisation, machine learning, and domain-specific applications like computer vision and natural language processing.
You will cover fundamental statistical and analytical concepts (such as machine learning) and technological tools (such as cloud platforms, Spark) for large-scale data analysis.
Through your taught modules, you will examine:
You will also undertake a large project where you will demonstrate the application of data science skills in a complex scenario.
This degree is also accredited by BCS on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
All students studying MSc Data Science will undertake five compulsory modules covering key concepts, including probability and statistics, machine and deep learning, and big data processing.
Elective modules are divided between two streams, which students will choose from.
This stream focuses on building scientific and analytics solutions to extract value and knowledge from data of different modalities, encountered in many business and research activities.
Semester C:
This stream focuses on building scalable environments to ingest, process, manage and serve massive amounts of data, to create data-driven products and services.
"I chose to study at Queen Mary because of the exciting research happening at the university, including in area of data science.
I chose this course because of the opportunity to be taught by experts in the field.
I have enjoyed completing coursework for my modules, since this has allowed me to gain significant practical Python experience.
My favourite module has been Neural Networks and Deep Learning.
I have enjoyed learning about the different types of neural networks and also building neural network architectures using PyTorch."
Harriet David, MSc Data Science (Formally known as MSc Big Data Science), 2022
PhD, MPhil, BSc, FHEA
Ahmed M.
A.
Sayed is a Lecturer and the Director of the MSc Big Data Science Programme.
His research spans inter-related disciplines of computer science and engineering with a focus on system design and optimization for machine learning systems.
Dr Barthet is the programme coordinator of the MSc in Media and Arts Technology and oversees industry partnerships for the AI & Music Centre for Doctoral Training.
His research interests include music information retrieval, new interfaces for musical expression, and music perception.
He published works on topics such as music and emotions, musical timbre, music recommendation, the internet of musical things, and extended reality audiovisual interfaces.
He teaches sound recording and production techniques, and digital media and social networks.
Emmanouil Benetos is Reader in Machine Listening and Director of Research at the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science of QMUL.
His expertise is on computational audio and machine learning.
He has been Royal Academy of Engineering Research Fellow, Turing Fellow, as well as PI/Co-I in several research projects funded by the UKRI, RAEng, EU, and industry.
His main research topic is computational audio analysis, also referred to as machine listening or computer audition - applied to music, urban, everyday and nature sounds.
He teaches the Data Mining module at Postgraduate level.
Dr Rauber is a lecturer in Artificial Intelligence.
His current research is focused on developing principled but scalable Bayesian reinforcement learning methods that address the most significant of these challenges: exploration, planning, and generalization.
He is the module organiser for Neural Networks and Deep Learning.
Dr Requena-Carrion is Executive Vice Dean and Director of Queen Mary School Hainan.
His main research interests include Machine Learning Project Management, Statistical Learning & Processing, Mathematical Modelling & Simulation, with applications to a diversity of areas including the healthcare sector.
Our postgraduates go on to work in a wide variety of careers and sectors, including technology, healthcare, finance, consulting, marketing and academia.
The broad range of skills gained through programmes in this School, coupled with multiple opportunities for extra-curricular activities and work experience, has enabled postgraduates to move into careers such as:
In organisations including:
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology or a related discipline.
Other education backgrounds can be considered subject to demonstrating satisfactory knowledge of programming.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/data-science-and-artificial-intelligence-conversion-programme-msc:
Prepare for the jobs of the near future with this conversion MSc programme, designed to enable learners without computer science backgrounds to train as artificial intelligence data specialists.
This programme is ideal for highly motivated applicants seeking to develop knowledge and technical expertise in data science and AI.
Since applicants come from various academic backgrounds, we strongly recommend that you review our guidance for completing your application tailored specifically to this programme.
The deadline for overseas applicants is 11 August 2025, with 25 August 2025 being the deadline for Home applicants
Teaching for this programme starts on Monday 8th September.
This early start is mandatory to provide you with two weeks of intensive pre-sessional teaching, equipping you with the essential technical skills required to successfully complete the course.
This degree programme aims to help learners without strong backgrounds in programming or statistics to acquire a level of skill in these areas, before learning to apply them to specialist AI techniques.
During the programme, you’ll discover and devise data-driven AI solutions that can be applied to support and enhance organisational decision-making.
You’ll also explore the essential ethical and legal issues that need to be considered when developing AI technology.
You’ll attend campus for two weeks of intensive teaching at the beginning of the programme.
These two intensive preparatory modules will allow you to acquire the pre-requisite skillset in programming and statistics, before diving into more specialised modules.
Before starting the programme, you can complete a free online short course, Get Ready for a Masters in Data Science and AI , developed by a collaborative partnership of leading higher education institutions, including Queen Mary.
The short course is designed to help you identify whether you’re ready for masters study, improve your data science skills, and get to grips with the basics of Python.
This module provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges of risk assessment, prediction and decision-making covering public health and medicine, the law, government strategy, transport safety and consumer protection.
Students will learn how to see through much of the confusion spoken about risk in public discourse, and will be provided with methods and tools for improved risk assessment that can be directly applied for personal, group, and strategic decision-making.
The module also directly addresses the limitations of big data and machine learning for solving decision and risk problems.
Principles of Machine Learning covers the fundamental concepts, methodology and practical tools necessary to understand, build and assess data-driven models to describe real-world systems and predict their behaviour.
We will follow the standard machine learning taxonomy to organise problems and techniques into well-defined families (supervised and unsupervised learning) and subfamilies.
We will pay particular attention to the methodology that we need to use to avoid and identify common pitfalls.
State-of-the-art models and the latest developments on model deployment will be discussed.
This module provides an intensive practical introduction to programming in Python, suitable for students with some degree of mathematical or statistical maturity.
It covers a range of practical skills and underlying knowledge.
These include the basic programming constructs for control, data structuring and modularisation; the use of systems for collaborative development and version control such as Git; unit testing and documentation; project structures and continuous integration/deployment.
This module has two components.
The first introduces students to the use of probability and statistics in the context of data analysis.
The module starts with basics of descriptive statistics and probability distributions.
Then we go on with applied statistics techniques, such as visualisation, fitting probability distributions, time-series analysis, and hypothesis testing, which are all fundamental to the exploration, insight extraction, and modelling activities that are fundamental in handling data, of any size.
The second covers some basic matrix algebra, including matrix multiplication and diagonalisation.
This module takes a practical approach to the coverage of ethics in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
It sees ethical considerations as part of a spectrum of concerns, including ethics, but extending through regulation and legal compliance as formal expressions of what is and is not ethical.
It considers examples of the kinds of issues that arise in existing systems, and uses the UK Government's Ethical Framework as an example of how to embed considerations of ethics into business processes.
The module covers the theoretical underpinnings and practical applications of Neural Networks and automatic differentiation as a tool for modern AI.
Neural Networks & Deep Learning are now the method of choice for solving various Machine Learning problems.
They are  applied to several real-world problems not only within Academia but most importantly within Industry.
Knowledge of Neural Networks and how to apply them to solve practical problems is now considered one of the most essential skills in the job market for a CS graduate.
The module will include a detailed exposition for Neural Networks and their implementation using a Deep Learning framework.
Topics covered include but not limited to:  Automatic Differentiation, Stochastic Gradient Descent, Regression, Softmax Regression, Multi-Layer Perceptrons, Training of Neural Networks and hyper-parameter optimization, Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks.
Applications of Neural Networks to Vision and NLP.
The field of information retrieval (IR) aims to provide techniques and tools to support effective and efficient access to large amounts of textual information (e.g.
stored on the web, digital libraries, intranets).
This involves representation, retrieval, presentation and user issues.
The following topics will be covered: 

1.
Application of representation and retrieval approaches described in the Foundations of Information Retrieval module, Semester A, in the context of structured documents, in particular web documents, and digital libraries.
2.
Databases & information retrieval, and logical models for information retrieval.
3.
The organisation of documents according to categories (e.g.
Yahoo directory) or their content to provide more effective presentation of the collection to the users.
4.
The design of interfaces and visualisation tools that aim at supporting end-users in their search tasks.
5.
User aspects, including the evaluation of IR systems according to user satisfaction, and the incorporation of user information seeking behaviour in the search task.
The module consists of 3 hours per week of lectures for 12 weeks, including labs and tutorials.
Data that has relevance for decision-making is accumulating at an incredible rate due to a host of technological advances.
Electronic data capture has become inexpensive and ubiquitous as a by-product of innovations such as the Internet, e-commerce, electronic banking, point-of-sale devices, bar-code readers, and electronic patient records.
Data mining is a rapidly growing field that is concerned with developing techniques to assist decision-makers to make intelligent use of these repositories.
The field of data mining has evolved from the disciplines of statistics and artificial intelligence.
This module will combine practical exploration of data mining techniques with a exploration of algorithms, including their limitations.
Students taking this module should have an elementary understanding of probability concepts and some experience of programming.
The intensive preparatory modules are assessed by submission of a completed lab book and a short in-class diagnostic test.
Standard modules are assessed through a combination of coursework and written examinations.
The project is assessed via a written report, a formal oral presentation and, where applicable, a demonstration of any software and/or hardware you have developed.
These are used for students to report on their progress, discuss research design, and plan their future work.
The Projects Coordinator also runs taught sessions to support the project module.
The two preparatory intensive modules will be taught through lectures and iterative learning approaches over two weeks, taking place before the start of the academic term.
Teaching for all other modules includes a combination of lectures, seminars and use of a virtual learning environment.
Each module provides contact time with your lecturers, supported by lab work and self-directed further study.
Dr Marsh is a member of the Risk and Information Research Group.
He works on decision support problems using Bayesian networks, with applications in medicines and safety.
He supports Computing at School and runs Continual Professional Development sessions for ICT teachers.
The campus is 15 minutes by tube from Central London, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, including the Senate House library.
Data and AI-driven technologies are becoming integral parts of our lives, helping us to solve everyday problems as well as drive scientific and technological progress.
This year, Sky News reported that demand for jobs requiring skills in AI and machine learning is estimated to soar by 40% over the next five years.
This programme aims to teach you the principles used to investigate and manage the design, development and deployment of new data products within organisations, preparing you for employment as a data science specialist in a wide range of industries.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics (STEM) subject not related to Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology, Electrical Engineering or Electronic Engineering

.
Non-STEM backgrounds can be considered subject to demonstrating satisfactory knowledge of programming or statistics.
Applicants with degrees obtained more than five years ago who do not meet the above criteria, and those with relevant experience will be considered on an individual basis and must demonstrate evidence of:
Aptitude and technical skills normally acquired through employment OR Evidence of successful completion of relevant programming qualifications, such as those provided by the Institute of Coding.
Where possible, selection will be based on the written application, but applicants may be asked to attend an interview to support the evaluation of their experience and aptitude.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/health-data-in-practice-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science and Global Health and Development
Unlock the power of data to transform healthcare with our MSc Health Data in Practice.
Prepare for leadership or strategic positions in the NHS or wider public and private sector organisations.
Focus on the practical implementation of health data in clinical settings, applications to health inequalities and quality improvement, and implications for public health and policy.
Unlock the power of data to transform healthcare.
The MSc Health Data in Practice offers a cutting-edge, human-centred approach to health and care data, equipping you with the tools and insights needed to drive innovation in real-world setting.
Immerse yourself in an interdisciplinary curriculum that integrates statistics, epidemiology, health informatics, health inequalities, and qualitative research methods, allowing you to harness multidisciplinary approaches to design impactful study and inform critical decision-making.
Through this MSc, you will gain a comprehensive foundation in quantitative analysis, qualitative methods, the context and provenance of health data, and practical data management, preparing you to solve the most pressing health data challenges.
You’ll also develop critical professional competencies, including analytical thinking, problem-solving, and clear communication - skills that are essential for thriving in the fast-evolving field of health data science.
Teaching from our expert faculty will ensure that you experience a holistic education that fuses key disciplines, empowering you to use data-driven insights to revolutionise healthcare outcomes.
Our MSc in Health Data in Practice will train a new generation of leaders in the health data fields, prepared to make significant contributions in the NHS, public and private sectors.
Join us and be at the forefront of transforming healthcare through data science.
The module will include case studies to explore contemporary policy debates and the influence of quantitative research studies on public health and primary care policy and government intervention programmes.
The advantages and disadvantages of different study designs and their application to different research questions will be covered.
Students will gain skills in summarising quantitative data, including routine morbidity and mortality measures and interpreting the results of commonly used statistical techniques.
This module will provide an introduction to epidemiology and statistics with a focus on quantitative analytic approaches.
Develop the knowledge and understanding necessary to design, analyse and interpret epidemiological studies with an application to public health and clinical practice.
Gain practical skills in using statistical software to clean data, perform statistical analyses and display data.
Learn to interpret findings crucial for evidence-based healthcare research,  critically evaluate research and contribute to advancements in public health.
This module equips students with the expertise to tackle complex health challenges through advanced epidemiological approaches and statistical modelling.
The module will introduce learners to principles of effective and efficient evaluation, exploring different uses of health data in evaluation, for example in recruitment, or to measure outcomes.
It will cover research designs that use health data or can be conducted within health data, including randomised controlled trials, cluster-randomised and stepped-wedge designs, trials-within-cohorts/registries, interrupted-time-series, systematic reviews.
Cost-effective analyses and ethics of evaluation will also be covered.
This course will equip students with practical skills for analysing routinely collected electronic health records (EHRs) data.
During the course, the students will learn about the provenance of EHRs data, how to identify exposures and outcomes, how to apply analytical approaches in EHRs data,  and how to conduct research studies using EHRs.
The course will focus on a range of techniques for answering causal questions in EHRs such as propensity score methods, trial emulation, and case-only designs.
The course will also cover developing and evaluating risk prediction models to support clinical decision-making, and provide hands-on experience with real-world EHRs data throughout.
In this module, students will work on a piece of independently produced research relevant to one of the programmes four scientific themes (Human-Data Interaction, Health Data in Practice, Effective and Efficient Evaluation, and Actionable Information).
Students will be assisted in topic choice and guided through the process by  one of the scientific theme leads but will be expected to collect data themselves, or organise access to it, and write the thesis independently.
Potential topics will be identified in consultation with scientific theme leads and other academic staff involved with the programme, and a list will be made available early in Semester 2.
The scientific theme leads will endeavour to facilitate student preferences.
Some topics may be broad enough to accommodate more than one student at a time.
The module provides an introduction to health data in practice with a focus on health care delivery challenges and patient and population health outcomes from an interdisciplinary perspective.
It will provide students with a grounding in legal and ethical frameworks governing health data access and use, and the role of patient, health professional and public engagement for delivering the full potential of health data sciences for public benefit.
This module provides students with essential knowledge and skills about Applied Research Methods.
The general aim is to equip students with transferable skills that can be either used towards completing an empirical project or conducting a systematic review.
This module will examine the theories and evidence underpinning social inequalities in health (defined as the unfair and avoidable differences in health status).
It will consider structural/material and psychosocial theories, and hypothesis about social drift, self-selection, and genetics.
Attention is given to the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health.
Sources of data and measurement of scale of inequalities between and within groups are addressed.
The module will consider association with income and distribution of money, resources, and power at global, national, and local level.
Policy interventions and their different approaches will be explored including universal and targeted or selective approaches to reducing inequalities by reducing the inequitable distribution of power, money, and resources.
In this module we address the fundamental public health question of how best to finance and organise health systems in order to achieve universal health coverage and the effective delivery of comprehensive PHC.
We will be particularly concerned with the ways in which health care systems differ from the perspective of access to services among different social groups within the population, and also with the distributive effects of different organising principles such as market and public control.
The relationship between health systems and the Primary Health Care Approach will be covered, as well as key debates around the interface between aid, global health governance and national health systems.
This module will also cover the essential economic theories used to inform health systems policy.
The module will introduce learners to key microeconomic concepts and principles, their relevance to the health economy and the need for alternative approaches to priority setting and resource allocation.
The module will then discuss key health economic analytical frameworks to inform resource allocation in health, exploring methods of economic evaluation, health policy evaluation, economic analysis of public health interventions, and analysis of inequalities in health and health care.
Throughout the module, the focus will be on developing learners' ability to critically appraise, conceptualize, design, and carry out appropriate health economic analyses.
This module explores patient-generated data from health social media, teaching students how to collect and analyse such data to gain a deeper understanding of patient perspectives, social determinants, and unmet needs behind numerical data.
By leveraging health social media analytics, students will uncover insights into patient care experiences, identify opportunities for quality improvement, monitor real-world health events, explore inequalities, evaluate drug safety, and assess perceptions that may influence patient engagement with health services and self-care practices.
Methodological approaches include qualitative and quantitative analytics tailored to health social media data, with a focus on ethics and information governance.
Clinical and public health applications emphasise understanding patients' perspectives to improve patient care.
This module will introduce learners to the principles of interpretive research and to a broad range of qualitative research practice including: interviews; focus groups; ethnographic approaches; participatory research methods; qualitative synthesis; mixed- methods designs.
The importance of integrating theory and ensuring ethical practice in the design, conduct and analysis of research will be emphasised throughout.
The module will lead learners through the research cycle from formulation of research idea to ensuring research impact with a focus on learning-by-doing and improving reflective practice.
This module provides students with practical application of Applied Research Methods.
There is no taught component in this module, except for 4 hours of tutorial sessions delivered on alternate weeks.
These 4 sessions will be complementary to 5 tutorial sessions delivered in Semester 2 for Psychological Therapies:Paradigms and Systems and Psychological Therapies: applications and Effectiveness.
The aim of these 4 tutorial sessions is to provide academic support  for their completion of their Pilot study.
If you study full-time, you will take 3 compulsory modules and 1 elective module from a selection in each semester.
If you study part-time, this will be spread across the two years.
Assessment takes a number of different forms including coursework essays, assignments and presentations, and examinations.
You will need to achieve an overall pass in the taught element in order to progress to your dissertation.
Undertake a supervised 60-credit dissertation focused on an area of health data in practice
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, hands-on workshops, and small group seminars.
The seminars are designed to encourage interactive discussion around health data topics and may include student-led presentations, group exercises, and practical data analysis sessions.
Teaching will take place at the Whitechapel Campus, with access to state-of-the-art facilities for health data analysis.
The programme places a strong emphasis on practical experience with health data, and you will engage with real-world case studies from a range of healthcare areas, including primary care, public health, and clinical specialties.
You will also have opportunities to participate in health data seminars and professional events, enabling you to build connections with experts in the field.
We collaborate with NHS partners, health research institutes, and organisations across east London and beyond, providing opportunities for research, practical placements, and community-focused projects.
Students are encouraged to engage with both local and national health data initiatives to apply their learning in real-world contexts.
If you study full-time, you will typically have one one-hour lecture and one two-hour practical workshop or seminar per module, per week.
Part-time students will take two core modules and two specialist modules in their first year; and complete the remaining two core modules, two elective modules, and their dissertation in the second year.
MBBS PhD FHEA MRCGP
I am an academic GP specialising in improving self-management and adherence to medications in patients with long-term conditions.
I co-lead the Centre for Primary Care.
I combine basic science, clinical and applied research, with training including a PhD in Neurophysiology in neural networks (Milan), an EU-funded Individual Marie Curie post-doctoral Fellowship (UCL), a NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowship at University of Cambridge, and a NIHR Academic Clinical Lectureship award at QMUL.
I am the Digital Education Lead for the Wolfson Institute of Population Health based at the  in the .
I am a dedicated and creative teacher, with a commitment to student-centred empowerment and liberation pedagogy who is skilled at working across smaller and larger student cohorts to lead sessions, manage staff to complete marking and supervision and facilitate academic success.
My teaching and reflexive practice surrounds how to democratise the learning environment, hear the voices of as many learners as possible and to gauge learner engagement.
MSc PhD
I am a Senior Lecturer in Health Systems with a focus on the Political Economy of Health and Healthcare.
I hold a PhD in Public Health and lead our MSc postgraduate modules in Health Systems, collaborating also on Policy Analysis methods and undergraduate Public Health.
My research explores health systems dynamics, healthcare access, and the impacts of austerity on social policy, welfare, and healthcare financing.
I've published on the management of healthcare services, privatization, healthcare workforce and the role of private entities in public health systems.
I am a statistician with extensive experience of working in academic medical research, particularly clinical trials.I lead the statistics group in the Pragmatic Clinical Trials Unit within the Centre for Evaluation and Methods, continuing my interest in clinical trial methodology and conduct.
I am a member of the Clinical Evaluation and Trials committee of the NIHR Health Technology Assessment funding programme, the UKCRC CTU Network Statistics Operations Group and am the independent statistician on a number of trial oversight committees for other trials units.
I am Professor of Medical Statistics and Deputy Centre Lead at the Centre for Evaluation & Methods, and Lead of the Methodology Research Unit, as well as Institutional Co-Lead at QMUL for the NIHR Research Support Service (RSS) Hub at Imperial College London & Partners.
In 2019 I was awarded a Senior Fellowship with The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute, and am now a member of their alumni community.
I joined QMUL in 2010 having worked previously as a biostatistician at Cambridge University, King’s College London, Imperial College London, and also for a short time with the Govern
DPhil
Prof.
Mihaylova leads the Health Economics and Policy Research Unit.
Her research is the area of health economic evaluation, prognostic disease modelling and evidence synthesis to inform targeting of policies and treatments.
I am a statistician with an academic background in statistics (Hong Kong Baptist University) and a PhD in Computer Science with big data time-series analysis for high throughput multielectrode array data (University of Warwick).
At the Wolfson Institute of Population Health, I lead on multidisciplinary research in advanced statistical methods using electronic health records and other longitudinal and biomedical data sources to create insights into health and inequalities relevant to obesity, diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular disease across the life course.
I also work on developing and appl
BSc.
(ARCS), MSc., PhD., MBBS.
I am an Out of Hours GP in Hackney and a Clinical Research fellow in the Centre for Primary Care’s Clinical Effectiveness Group (CEG) with a special interest in the use of medical data in the prevention and management of cardiovascular disease.
Following a BSc.
in Microbiology at Imperial College and an MSc.
in Computational Biology at the University of Manchester, I completed a Ph.D.
in Bioinformatics at UCL and, afterwards, a post-doctoral research post at the Royal Veterinary College investigating the genomes of mycobacteria (including Mycobacterium tuberculosis) and various associated org
I am an epidemiologist specializing in the application of precision medicine approaches in globally diverse datasets to address health inequalities, particularly around cardiometabolic disease.
At QMUL, I work in the Clinical Effectiveness Group as part of the Precision Medicine Part 2 program funded by Barts Charity.
I am a member of the Genes & Health Executive, where I lead a workstream on developing phenotypes in electronic health record datasets linked to the G&H cohort, and work collaboratively across the WIPH centres on a range of projects focussed on health inequalities.
MBBS MA MSc PhD FHEA FRCGP
I am a General Practitioner and primary care researcher, combining my academic role with working as a GP in Suffolk.
I am Institute Theme Lead for Complexity and Social Sciences and co-lead of the Primary Care Unit.
I am also on the core management team for the Wellcome Doctoral Training Programme and QMUL’s membership of the NIHR School for Primary Care.
I am a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a Fellow of the Royal College of General Practitioners.
MA MSc FHEA MD PhD MRCGP FFPH
I have a background in infectious disease epidemiology and migration health, and am also a General Practitioner in East London.
My interest areas are TB, HIV and migration health.
At Queen Mary you will have access to a number of advanced facilities, some of which are designated exclusively to postgraduate students.
Your postgraduate learning experience is enhanced by our fantastic location in Whitechapel , in east London.
This is the main home of Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, close to The Royal London Hospital.
The campus has its own library, state-of-the-art labs at the Blizard Institute and social and study spaces in the newly refurbished Garrod Building, including the students’ union.
You can also use all the facilities at the Mile End campus, which is ten minutes up the road.
This course is based at the Wolfson Institute of Population Health, which delivers internationally recognised research and teaching in population health.
The Wolfson Institute is a part of Queen Mary University of London’s faculty of medicine and dentistry.
The work of our researchers and educators has had a significant impact on lives across the world.
We provide integrated teaching and training opportunities delivered by leaders in the field.
By sharing knowledge and pushing the boundaries of research, we will continue to advance population health and preventive medicine on a global scale.
Queen Mary is a member of the Russell Group of leading research universities in the UK and the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry proudly holds an Athena Swan Gold Award in recognition of our commitment to gender equality.
The MSc Health Data in Practice will equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to excel in leadership and strategic roles across the NHS, public health bodies, and private sector organisations, including health tech companies, consultancies, and pharmaceutical firms.
In the NHS, you could pursue roles such as health data analyst, clinical informatics specialist, or digital transformation lead, supporting evidence-based decision-making and improving patient outcomes.
In the private sector, opportunities include positions in health data consultancy, digital health innovation, and health analytics.
You will develop career-ready skills such as advanced data analysis, problem-solving, and clear communication - critical for success in this fast-evolving field.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a related discipline.
Relevant subjects include quantitative disciplines such as Statistics, Computer Sciences, Mathematics, Bioinformatics and Biomedical Sciences, and qualitative disciplines such as Epidemiology and Public Health.
Applications from those with less quantitatively oriented Natural Sciences degrees, such as Biology and Medicine, are welcome if they have focused on the more quantitative elements of those degrees.
Applicants with a 2:2 degree with relevant content and at least one year of relevant experience, for instance work in industry, analytics, diagnostic labs, scientific research etc, may be considered on an individual basis.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the Wolfson Institute falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/health-data-in-practice-pgdip:
Unlock the power of data to transform healthcare with our Postgraduate Diploma in Health Data in Practice.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Health Data in Practice offers a cutting-edge, human-centred approach to health and care data, equipping you with the tools and insights needed to drive innovation in real-world setting.
Through this PGDip, you will gain a comprehensive foundation in quantitative analysis, qualitative methods, the context and provenance of health data, and practical data management, preparing you to solve the most pressing health data challenges.
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Health Data in Practice will train a new generation of leaders in the health data fields, prepared to make significant contributions in the NHS, public and private sectors.
If you study full-time, you will take three compulsory modules and one elective module from a selection each semester.
If you study part-time, you will take the modules across both years.
We collaborate with NHS partners, health research institutes, and organisations across East London and beyond, providing opportunities for research, practical placements, and community-focused projects.
Part-time students will take two core modules and two specialist modules in their first year; and complete the remaining two core modules and two elective modules in the second year.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Health Data in Practice will equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to excel in leadership and strategic roles across the NHS, public health bodies, and private sector organisations, including health tech companies, consultancies, and pharmaceutical firms.
September 2025 | 9 months
September 2025 | 21 months

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/linguistics-and-ai-msc:
Part of: AI, Computer and Data Science , Linguistics and Mathematical Sciences
Artificial intelligence and computational linguistics are transforming industries, from social media to marketing, by applying AI to language data.
This programme offers a foundation in these techniques, perfect if you are looking to pursue a career in AI without a technical background.
It’s led by our renowned Department of Linguistics.
Study in one of the top Linguistics Departments in the UK
Build a solid foundation in AI methods applied to language data
Gain skills in computational linguistics, python programming, statistics for language analysis, language and AI
Learn from professionals about how to apply linguistics in the real world
This programme will build your digital AI knowledge and skills and provide a solid foundation in AI methods applied to language data.
You will understand how to apply your knowledge to real-world large datasets.
You will develop the skills to understand, organise, clean, process, and analyse a range of data types.
You will use the software R to develop skills at statistical computing and data visualisation.
You will gain an understanding of how the various linguistic properties of text (word structure, sentence structure, word and sentence meaning, and discourse structure) are important in the computational processing of text, and how current computational models apply to extract information relevant to these properties.
You will understand how machine learning systems work in this domain, what their advantages and limitations are both as theories and as tools, and where the field is currently heading.
You will learn advanced concepts and algorithms in computational linguistics underlying contemporary generative AI models, for language.
It covers core computational architectures (Hidden Markov Models, Recurrent Neural Networks, Long-Short Term Memory networks, Transformer architectures for LLMs), advanced linguistic concepts (constituency, ambiguity, dependency, semantic roles, affect, anaphora, and discourse cohesion) and how computational approaches, both symbolic and neural, can be applied to these.
You will understand how different computational models are applied to different aspects of language structure and will develop their ability to use these tools to large language data sets
You will get an introduction to computer programming and computational modelling for language as it is applied in various settings.
You will learn how to write basic programmes in Python, understand their use in AI applications, and develop their ability to use these tools with large language data sets.
You will learn the use of Python for data acquisition, cleaning, and analysis, particularly with datasets that relate to the Humanities and Social Sciences.
You will learn how to write code in a widely used programming language (Python), understand the role of other languages (e.g.
Java), and gain experience in using tools that are suited to solving a range of computational problems in linguistics using machine learning approaches.
The Linguistics Department has strengths in statistical data processing of language, computational and experimental techniques relevant to language analysis, ethical, philosophical and computational theories, and core areas of linguistics (phonology, syntax, sociolinguistics, semantics, discourse).
You might incur travel costs for the Research Practicum module as it may involve visits to other institutions.
Research at postgraduate level places special demands on the developing researcher, for which appropriate training is needed.
The two primary goals of this module are to prepare students for the practical challenges of postgraduate research (including the development of a research question/agenda, advanced library research, ethics and practical dimensions of research collection, outlining and writing a dissertation, abstract-writing, oral presentation, and other related skills) and to initiate students into specialised research in their chosen dissertation area.
The first part of the module (before reading week) will cover core, generic postgraduate training for all students on the MA, taught through group sessions.
The second part of the module (after reading week) will require students to apply this knowledge (as well as knowledge from core modules in Semester 1) to their chosen area of research by pursuing independent reading and research towards their potential dissertation topics (to be completed during the summer term), taught through individual meetings with supervisors.
During this module, students (in coordination with a supervisor) will select a topic for advanced study; collect and analyze data to adequately address the chosen topic; and write a 15,000 word dissertation.
Through the dissertation, students will synthesize various aspects of the knowledge they will have obtained through the degree and demonstrate their ability to conduct and present high quality original research.
This module introduces students to advanced concepts and algorithms in computational linguistics underlying contemporary generative AI models, for language.
It covers core computational architectures used in Natural Language Processing and in Large Language Models, advanced linguistic concepts (constituency, ambiguity, dependency, semantic roles, affect, anaphora, and discourse cohesion) and how computational approaches, both symbolic and neural, can be applied to these.
Throughout the module students will learn to connect linguistics and artificial intelligence techniques, and consider the ethical and research issues that arise.
This module introduces students to the basic linguistic ideas needed for computational processing of text (morphology, syntax, semantics, discourse cohesion) and to how their properties can be understood computationally.
With this in hand, it then introduces computational methods for text processing, for example, symbolic parsing models, basic text processing, probabilistic models, vector semantics, and deep learning architectures as well as applications in text classification, sentiment analysis, word prediction and text generation.
It considers some of the ethical, environmental and research issues raised and includes discussion of the range of career routes that students' learning is relevant to.
This module provides students with an introduction to computer programming and computational modelling for language as it is applied in various settings.
Language processing software and AI now underpin most professions, and an understanding of how they work -whether one is in a technical or adjacent role -is useful for employability and success.
The module focuses on the use of programming for data acquisition, cleaning, and analysis, particularly with datasets that relate to the Humanities and Social Sciences.
Students will learn how to write code in a widely used programming language (e.g.
Python), understand the role of other languages (e.g.
Throughout the module students will develop their practical programming experience and complete formative problem sets to reinforce the new material.
The module is suitable for MA students without any prior experience in computer programming or machine learning.
This module provides students with an introduction to handling large datasets with confidence.
Most careers now require a high level of comfort with complex data of different kinds, as well as the ability to both query existing data or creating datasets.
The module will focus on a range of types of data, and then encourage students to develop the skills to understand, organise, clean, process, and analyse a range of data types.
Students will use statistical analysis software to develop skills at statistical computing and data visualisation.
Throughout the module students will develop their practical experience and complete formative assignments to reinforce skills.
The module is suitable for PGT students without any prior experience with software for data processing and statistical analysis.
Prior experience with programming is welcome but not required.
Health communication is becoming increasingly important in a world faced with new health challenges from obesity to Ebola, anxiety to diabetes.
This module considers the role of language in our experience of and beliefs about health and illness.
Students will learn how health communication differs among various communities, both monolingual and multilingual, from the grassroots level, such as in families, to broader groups, for example, between health professionals and patients.
It also considers the effects of social diversity, such as the age, gender and ethnicity of patients and healthcare professionals.
Students will become proficient in analysing a range of relevant uses of language, including narratives about health and illness, the representation of health and illness in the media, computer-mediated communication about illness, and public health information, persuasion and campaigns.
This module will explore current theoretical approaches and research in the area of language development and cognition in neurodiverse populations.
The following topics will be included: Theoretical and methodological issues in the study of neurodiversity and language difficulties in childhood, including Dyslexia, Developmental Language Disorder (DLD), Reading Comprehension Impairment; Autism Spectrum Disorders; Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; Assessment and Intervention for developmental difficulties in speech and language acquisition.
The field of sociolinguistics has seen the parallel development of a number of theories of how language relates to, and is embedded in, society.
Some of these developments have been mutually reinforcing or complementary, while others have raised questions and debates over the nature of social variation in language.
This course reviews the major 'lineages' of thinking in sociolinguistics, covering theories that have formed the foundation of both quantitative and qualitative approaches sociolinguistics.
With a focus on the former, the course will require students to read classic texts from early sociolinguistic theory (developed in William Labov's early work and parallel strands of thought from the same period) and then trace the development of distinct 'waves' of thinking and analysis in subsequent decades.
On the qualitative side, the course will cover selected classic works from social theory, and literary and cultural theory that have been influential in sociolinguists' thinking about social structure and variation (e.g.
Bourdieu, Bakhtin).
Overall, the course will provide students with an advanced foundational knowledge of major developments in sociolinguistic thought over the past half century.
Current generative theory has developed a model of the interaction between structure, morphological form, and meaning which takes the syntax to provide the central system with which morphophonology and semantics interface.
This idea has been mainly developed in primary technical literature by Chomsky, Marantz, Borer, Kayne, Cinque, Ramchand, Adger and others.
The module systematically develops an understanding of what this architecture for language implies for analyses of crucial phenomena: clause and nominal structure, predication, syntactic dependencies, language variation, through a critical exploration of the relevant literature.
It also develops students' skills of syntactic argumentation, and the presentation of these arguments to professional audiences.
Students taking this module will work closely with a member of staff on a research project that is connected to the staff member's own research objectives and is related to the intended specialization of the student.
Students will receive individualized training in the skills necessary to engage in this research, and regular supervision as they complete their project.
Possible research projects include organizing and analyzing an existing data set with a view to publication of the results, designing materials for a future experiment, conducting critical literature reviews preparatory to the launch of a new line of research, collecting data from research participants, formulating new research protocols and research methods, synthesizing existing research results for presentation to non-academic audiences, etc.
The skills and experience gained through this practicum will substantially enhance the preparedness of the student to pursue their own research goals.
This module provides an overview of Ethnography of Communication, a theoretical and methodological approach to analyzing and understanding communicative patterns and language use in social and cultural contexts.
The focus on primary literature includes the seminal figures who established the approach (e.g., Hymes, Gumperz), developed the framework (Baumann, Briggs, Ervin-Tripp, Philipps), and who continue to advance it today (Duranti, Goodwin, Hill, Rampton).
Applying ethnographic insights and methodologies to fieldwork activities and projects in the local community will instill understanding of the broad range of practices that constitute doing ethnography as well as illustrate the points raised in the literature.
Each week, students in this module will read one paper by a member of staff (along with, optionally, a related text in that subfield) and prepare questions about the research described in those papers.
The member of staff will attend that week's class meeting, and engage in discussion of their research goals, results and methods with students.
Students will be expected to participate in developing further research questions and novel methodological solutions pertinent to the sub-discipline being focused on in a given week.
Students will gain an appreciation for the full range of research topics and methods that staff are expert in, and have a unique opportunity to engage in high level, in-depth discussions of world renowned, cutting edge research with the researchers who have done this research.
Students will write several short 500 word response papers and will develop one of these into a longer piece of work.
This module provides students with introductory training in theoretical and practical elements of experimental linguistics.
The module will include hands-on training in statistics and hypothesis testing, experimental design, data collection (including training in ethical human subjects research protocols), and data analysis.
The module will also engage students in considering strengths and limitations of various kinds of linguistics data, and how multiple sources of data and methods of data collection can be combined to enhance understanding.
Students will develop their critical reading skills and gain practice in presenting primary source literature to their peers.
The module is suitable for MA students without substantial prior background in Linguistics, or for those who want to branch out into a new sub-field.
This module introduces students to the many uses of Linguistics in real-world situations and professions.
Although Linguistics is a small and specialised field, it is a crucial element in very diverse professions.
The module will integrate talks given by representatives from a range of professions, with readings and assessments about how to apply linguistics in those professions.
Examples of professional uses of Linguistics include: speech and language therapy for children and adults with communication disorders, forensic linguistics in criminal investigations and courtrooms, dialect coaching for film and theatre, uses of syntax, semantics, and computational linguistics in IT and search engines such as Google, pronunciation in the media, communication in medicine, policing, and other institutional contexts, and language awareness in school teaching, journalism, and public services.
The module offers students a unique opportunity to gain direct exposure to professionals from a range of careers, and to learn how to apply their technical knowledge to real-world problems.
This module will provide a introduction to phonetics, one of the core sub-fields of Linguistics.
This is the study of how speech sounds are produced and perceived, as well as what the acoustic properties of these sounds are.
This module will focus on the main processes of phonetic articulation, practice with transcription using the International Phonetic Alphabet as well as on the acoustic analysis of speech.
Empirical results in a broad range of languages have now made the understanding of the basic building blocks of syntactic theory fundamental to any advanced work in linguistics, not only in syntax and semantics, but within any area of linguistics.
This module will familiarize students with the basic elements of syntactic construction, serving at the same time as an introduction for students with less background, and as a critical overview, for those more advanced.
Emphasis will be put on the development of argumentation skills and the ability to undertake independent analysis of linguistic data, as well as on the development of critical thinking in evaluating competing approaches to the same paradigms.
This module trains students in the craft of doing formal semantics.
It introduces Frege's hypothesis that functional application is the mechanism by which the meaning of a complex phrase is composed from the meanings of its constituent parts.
It applies this method to the analysis of a variety of core semantic phenomena, including argument structure, adjectival modification, definite descriptions, relative clauses, binding and quantification.
These phenomena are all extensional, meaning that insightful analyses of them can be developed without recourse to theories of possible worlds, situations, or temporal intervals.
Emphasis throughout is on training students to be able to produce explicit detailed analyses of novel data.
You will be assessed by a wide variety of methods, including poster presentations, technical exercises, critiques of theoretical and methodological proposals in the literature, research and lab reports, essays and extended written analyses.
You will also be assessed on a supervised 10,000-word dissertation.
You will be taught in lectures and small group seminars.
The seminars are designed to generate discussion and may involve presentations, group exercises, fieldwork, data analysis and lab work.
You'll also need to spend a significant amount of time in independent learning and research, especially as coursework deadlines approach.
We want you to get the best from your studies, so you'll be paired with your own Academic Adviser, who'll support you academically and pastorally.
All teaching staff will hold regular drop-in hours in which you have the opportunity to discuss your work and support with progress.
PhD (Edinburgh)
Professor Adger is interested in syntax, the way that human languages put words (and bits of words) together to create new structures with new meanings.
PhD (Berkeley)
Colleen Cotter's research interests include; Sociolinguistics, Discourse analysis, Ethnography of communication, News media language, Endangered and lesser-used languages, Irish (Gaelic), Language and culture, Language and identity, Public/written discourse, Language planning and policy, Technology
PhD (Stanford)
Chantal Gratton is interested in interactional questions, focusing on how speakers make use of linguistics variation to navigate social structures, forge interpersonal relationships, and express emotional affect.
PhD (Glasgow)
Sophie Holmes-Elliott is a Sociolinguist focussing on the on the quantitative analysis of linguistic variation and change.
Sophie is especially interested in the relationship between children and language variation - both their acquisition of systemic variability, and their role in the propagation of change.
PhD (QMUL)
PhD (QMUL).
Reader In Applied Linguistics & Multimodality.
I have taught the MA ELT since 2015, and convene the compulsory module in Second Language Acquisition, in which I draw on principles of reflexive practice, psychology and interpersonal relationships to empower course participants to become effective teachers.
My research covers creative communication in second or third language, in migrant contexts, and beyond language to communicate complex meanings.
PhD (UConn)
Luisa Marti is a theoretical linguist with a specialization in semantics and its interfaces with morpho-syntax and pragmatics.
Luisa's work investigates issues such as the syntax and semantics of grammatical number and of numerals, the semantics and pragmatics of definiteness and specificity, the nature of natural language quantification, the relationship between the morphology of quantifiers and the possible meanings they can express, and the representation of implicit content in the syntax of natural languages.
PhD (UCL)
Kathleen McCarthy's research explores the relationship between children’s environment and their early language development and educational outcomes.
PhD (Harvard)
Hazel Pearson's research focuses on formal semantics and its interfaces, and draws on both English and cross-linguistic data.
Professor Sharma's research interests include sociolinguistics, new varieties of English, bilingualism, variation, syntax and typology.
Her research examines how languages and dialects vary, and what that variation can tell us about cognitive and social systems.
PhD (MIT)
Professor Stockall's work focuses on the earliest stages of linguistic information extraction and processing involved in the retrieval of individual words and parts of words, and in the combination of those pieces to form complex utterances.
Coppe van Urk's research looks at issues in minimalist syntax, with a particular focus on understudied languages.
Our location in the heart of London’s East End offers an exciting, incredibly rich and diverse cultural environment for linguistics research – more than 110 languages are spoken in our local borough.
As Queen Mary is on the Central Line, you are also only minutes away from many of the University of London’s other libraries, such as those of the British Film Institute, the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes or the social sciences library at the LSE, which will provide additional breadth to your studies.
The incomparable resources of the British Library are close at hand, while London's cultural resources add richness to research in our specialist fields.
You'll be able to attend our training workshops throughout the year, which will provide specialist linguistics training, as well as guidance on how to write journal articles, research ethics and knowledge transfer in general.
We also offer advising on funding and applications for MA students considering pursuing a PhD in Linguistics.
We also provide you with a superb professional network: our MA cohort form close links during and after their degree – and even after graduation, you'll still be invited to our events and networking opportunities.
Graduates will go on to careers in technology industries, marketing, brand consulting, speech therapy, forensic linguistics, banking, journalism - where AI is a required skill.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in any subject
Candidates that do not currently meet the set entry requirements may also have the option to study the Graduate Diploma in Humanities and Social Sciences.
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MSc Linguistics and AI.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of the Arts fall within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/machine-learning-for-visual-data-analytics-msc:
As recent developments in computers and sensors make the generation, storage and processing of visual data easier, methods that enable a machine to analyse and understand images and videos become increasingly relevant.
The advances in this field are behind Google's autonomous vehicles, Meta's image analysis technologies and car plate recognition systems.
This programme is designed to train engineers to work in the analysis and interpretation of images and video.
This course will enable students to study cutting-edge technologies in the field of machine learning for visual analytics, and will provide them with the background and skills they need to pursue careers in research or industry.
Course content covers:
The programme is taught by academics from the Computer Vision and Multimedia and Vision research groups.
The groups consist of a team of more than 100 researchers (academics, post-docs, research fellows and PhD students) performing world-leading research into the fields of surveillance, face and gesture recognition, multimedia indexing and retrieval and robotics.
Semester 1 Machine Learning Introduction to Computer Vision Computer Programming Natural Language Processing
Semester 2 Deep Learning and Computer Vision Machine Learning for Visual Data Analysis Neural Networks and NLP Neural Networks and Deep Learning
Semester 3 Project Module
Semester 1 Machine Learning Introduction to Computer Vision Computer Programming Computer Graphics
Semester 2 Deep Learning and Computer Vision Machine Learning for Visual Data Analysis Image Processing Neural Networks and Deep Learning
Semester 3 ECS750P - Project Module
You will also be assessed through your final research project.
You will devise and carry out a major final project, which you may do in collaboration with an industrial partner.
I chose m y MSc because computer vision was the most appealing field in machine learning for me, and Queen Mary has an excellent computer vision department.
I most enjoyed my modules in Introduction to Computer Vision with Professor Andrea Cavallaro and Deep Learning and Computer Vision with Professor Sea n Gong -t hey’re both fantastic lecturers, really knowledgeable and engaging.
During my MSc, I gained important skills in machine learni ng and computer vision and experience conducting research projects, designing experiments and critically analysing academic papers.
The video presentation I made as part of my research project got me the interview which eventually led to my role as a Computer Vision Engineer.
Tom Hughes, MSc Machine Learning for Visual Data Analytics, 2023
Students of this course can expect to take part in:
The campus is 15 minutes by tube from Central London, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s facilities, such as the Senate House library.
Additionally, expertise in machine learning, signal processing, and programming is highly sought after in various other industries.
Many of our faculty members collaborate on research projects with industry partners, including Disney, BBC, Technicolor, and STMicroelectronics, and also engage in consultancy work.
You will be well-prepared to pursue further research or PhD studies.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/sound-and-music-computing-msc:
Become an expert in sound and music computing by developing new tools or products, like audio processors or instruments, and contribute to the expanding music and media technology sector.
Prepare for your career by merging your interest in music with technology.
Align your passion for music with technology through two specialised streams: the AI and Music Data Science stream, focusing on music distribution and data analytics, and the Audio and Music Engineering stream, dedicated to crafting innovative music hardware.
Study this programme if:
This course will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the design and software development process for music recording, analysis, and synthesis in diverse environments, such as home, studio, and live performances.
You will study how musical sound is processed by the mind and brain - crucial for developing creative tools and intuitive interfaces, as well as the creative production of new music.
You will also be introduced to state-of-the-art methods for the analysis of music data.
You will choose a stream to specialise in, to further develop your professional profile.
As well as lectures and seminars, you’ll engage in hands-on computing and laboratory work to gain practical insights and skills.
All students will undertake two compulsory modules covering music informatics and music perception and cognition.
Optional modules are split into two streams: AI and Music Data Science or Audio and Music Systems Engineering.
This stream equips you with the expertise to become a specialist in streaming and music distribution, featuring a diverse range of modules finely tuned for the music industry.
Gain proficiency in applying data analytics, information retrieval, and signal processing skills to music.
Students studying this stream should have strong software engineering skills, as well as a solid interest in music.
Whether working on niche recommendation services for small labels, collaborating with artists for enhanced promotion, or creating AI tools for creative professionals, this stream positions you at the forefront of AI and Music Data Science, ready to make meaningful contributions in a variety of roles within the music industry.
Semester A ECS708P - Machine Learning ECS741P - Music Perception and Cognition ECS766P - Data Mining ECS759P - Artificial Intelligence
Semester B ECS7013P - Deep Learning for Audio and Music ECS7006P - Music Informatics ECS7022P - Computational Creativity ECS7028P - Data Semantics
Semester C ECS750P - Project (must take and pass)
This module stream readies you for specialisation in designing and developing music hardware or software, encompassing performance, production, and distribution.
The increasing demand for engineers in this field is driven by the growing complexity of audio technology and the continual need for sophisticated sound in entertainment and communications.
Students in this stream will gain essential skills for crafting software or hardware for mixing consoles, PA systems, instruments,  and software plugins, merging a strong musical foundation with exceptional software or hardware engineering expertise.
Semester A Fundamentals of DSP Music Perception and Cognition Interactive Digital Multimedia Techniques Sound Recording and Production Techniques
Semester B Music and Audio Programming Music Informatics Interactive System Design Data Semantics
Semester C Project (must take and pass)
Individual projects are undertaken during the summer months, under the supervision of an academic member of staff, with whom there are normally weekly consultancy meetings.
These are used for students to report on their progress, discuss research design and plan their future work.
A number of industrial-linked projects may be offered each year, which students can apply for.
AMusA LMusA BSc(Hons) PhD
Professor Dixon’s research interests are in the fields of music informatics, computer music, music signal processing, digital audio, artificial intelligence and cognitive science.
Recently, he has been working on extracting musical content from audio signals, with a focus on rhythm and harmony.
BSc (Phys) BSc (Math) PhD MAES SMIEEE
Dr Reiss’s research interests include audio signal processing, intelligent and expert systems, real-time signal processing, audio production, sound engineering and multichannel signal processing.
He has published over 100 scientific papers and serves on several steering and technical committees.
As a student on Sound and Music MSc, you will study in the Media and Technology studios.
These are versatile and state-of-the-art spaces designed for diverse sound, music, and performance research.
Uses of the spaces include:
Recent developments include the £39m Graduate Centre, providing 7,700 square metres of learning and teaching space.
Graduates from the School have gone on to work in roles such as:
At companies including:
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Technology, Mathematics, Sound and Music Production or a related discipline.
Other education backgrounds can be considered subject to demonstrating satisfactory knowledge of programming or mathematics.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/technology-media-and-telecommunications-law-llm:
Part of: Law and AI, Computer and Data Science
This LLM gives you the opportunity to analyse how technology, media and telecommunications law has affected the application of traditional legal principles.
Examine the complex issues, precedence and developments of law and policy and learn how to apply this knowledge to current events and cases.
We are offering a Technology, Media and Telecommunications Scholarship of £7,875 towards tuition fees for applicants from the member states of the Council of Europe.
Watch our webinar to find out more about studying Postgraduate Law and Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law at Queen Mary .
Please note we are currently unable to accept applications from students requiring a Student Route visa to study in the UK, pending approval by the UK Home Office.
Register Your Interest and we will notify you when we open to international students.
Find out more about the SQE option .
The importance of technology, the media and telecommunications in modern society has grown exponentially in recent times.
The Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law LLM explores the legal regimes governing the supply and use of computer and communications technology and those governing key aspects of the media.
Through the examination of national law, international law and policy, you will learn to analyse complex legal issues arising from technology, media and telecommunications and examine how the developments in these areas have affected the application of traditional legal principles.
You will critically evaluate the regulation of all key forms of media content and the channels via which that content is delivered, including traditional, new and still-developing media.
The School of Law offers a selection of elective modules, enabling you to gear your qualification to your desired career trajectory.
You will also have voluntary access to an excellent series of lectures in Critical Thinking and Writing in Law to help you to improve your writing and research in law skills.
Please note that not all modules will be available in any one year.
We only allow one application from our range of LLM programmes so please ensure you apply for your main programme of interest.
Please note you can request to change programme at offer stage via your MYSIS admissions portal and also request this after enrolment via the School of Law Taught Programme office.
Join the Queen Mary Network and speak to our community about this programme.
You will need to complete 180 credits in total.
Full year programme:
Please see the academic year plan for an idea of the structure of the programme and key periods of assessment.
You can also choose to complete your SQE Preparation alongside this LLM which is available for both full-time and part-time study.
View the full list of modules on this programme .
Read our FAQs for more information about applying to us .
You will be taught by a mixture of formal lectures and small group seminars.
The seminars are designed to generate informed discussion around set topics, and may involve student presentations and group exercises as well as open discussion.
You will have a team of advisers to support you, including the LLM and Programme Academic Directors, your module convenors and, for an elective dissertation, your dissertation supervisor.
Diploma di Laurea in Giurisprudenza (Rome), LLM (London), PhD (London), Avvocato (Italian Bar - Rome)
Dr Dimita’s research focus on the interrelationship among creativity, interactivity and new technologies.
He is the editor-in-chief of the Interactive Entertainment Law Review, Edward Elgar, and the organiser of the ‘More than Just a Game’ conference series.
LL.B PHD BCS FHEA
Dr Martina Gillen's current research focuses on Intellectual Property and IT Law.
Current research topics include regulation of non-commercial copyright infringement and intellectual property in the folkways of indigenous cultures.
Tobias Mahler currently focuses on research related to the Internet Governance Project (Igov2) at the Norwegian Research Center for Computers and Law (NRCCL).
Tobias teaches at the UiO and holds guest lectures at Queen Mary, University of London, King's College London, Stockholm University and Stavanger University.
LLB (Aberd)
Ms Edgar lectures on AI, Robotics and the Law, Media Law, E-commerce Law, Protection of Computer Software and Taxation and Ecommerce.
Her research interests include electronic commerce, taxation, jurisdiction, intellectual property and legal issues affecting virtual enterprises.
BA, JD, LLM
Professor Flanagan practiced law for 16 years in New York and in the US financial services industry.
Her experience includes insurance regulatory compliance, appellate litigation and state government relations for providers of life, health and property/casualty insurance and pension products.
BA (Hons I), MA, PGDipAppSci, JD (Queensland), PhD (Edinburgh), Solicitor and Barrister to the Supreme Court of Victoria
Professor Johanna Gibson is a solicitor and barrister to the Supreme Court of Victoria.
She has consulted widely to industry, government, NGOs and practitioners, and has been a visiting professor to institutions around the world.
She has published extensively in the fields of intellectual property, critical theory, and animal studies.
LLB (Leeds), PhD (London), Solicitor, MCIArb
Professor Hörnle is an expert in internet law.
Her research interests includeregulatory issues, consumer protection, jurisdiction and online dispute resolution.
She is Director of taught programmes at Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS).
LLB, MA, LLM, Solicitor of the Senior Courts of England and Wales
Professor Millard is the head of the Cloud Legal Project at Queen Mary.
He is also a Research Associate at the Oxford Internet Institute and is Of Counsel to the law firm Bristows.
He has over 30 years experience in technology law, both in academia and legal practice.
BA (Keele), LLM (London)
Chris has published widely on many aspects of computer law and research in which he was involved led to the EU directives on electronic signatures and on electronic commerce.
Chris was previously Joint Chairman of the Society for Computers and Law, and he acted as Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology.
Professor Noam Shemtov is a qualified solicitor both in the UK and in Israel.
He holds visiting appointments by Spanish and Dutch universities, where he lectures regularly in areas pertaining to intellectual property, creative industries and technology.
I can affirm that Queen Mary is home to some of the most renowned professors who are pioneers in their field of expertise and have various books and publications to their credit.
The ethos of quality is seen with every interaction with the professors be it during lectures or discussions through an informal setting.
Rahil Zuyaan, Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law LLM (2022)
Teaching is primarily based at the School of Law's postgraduate centre, the Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS), located in Lincoln's Inn Fields .
This area is home to numerous barristers’ chambers and law firms and is a short walk from the Royal Courts of Justice.
Our academics and students interact with leading legal professionals, many of whom regularly teach and take part in our seminars and conferences.
Depending on the modules you choose, you may also have classes at the Mile End Campus or at one of the Queen Mary central campus locations ( Charterhouse Square or West Smithfield ).
The School of Law is part of Queen Mary University of London, a member of both the University of London and the Russell Group.
The School was ranked 7th in the UK and 32nd in the world by QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023 , and 10th in the UK and 50th in world in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024 by subject .
The School of Law has consistently been ranked in the top 10 law schools in the UK for the quality of our research and teaching, and many of our internationally recognised staff act as advisers to governments, industry and NGOs, both nationally and internationally.
The School's central focus is on the role of law and its institutions in contemporary international society.
The School of Law is divided into two organisational units: the Department of Law and the Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS).
The School of Law hosts the largest and most diverse LLM programme in the UK.
There is a very high rate of employment of our students within six months of graduation.
We have specialist careers advisers who organise events and assist with finding internship opportunities at UK and international law firms and other employers.
Graduates of this programme have gone on to work as:
After graduating from Queen Mary, you join our network of alumni from over 100 countries , and get access to exclusive benefits and networking opportunities.
January 2026 | 2 years
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Law or a degree with substantial law content.
We will also consider an undergraduate degree in Media studies, Computer science, IT, telecoms, or other related subject.
Law graduates with a 2:2 honours degree who also have other legal qualifications and/or substantial professional legal experience may also qualify.
Non-law graduates with a minimum second class honours degree, that have also obtained a Merit (or 60 per cent) in the Common Professional Examination (CPE) or Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) recognised by the UK professional bodies, may also qualify.
Non-law graduates may also be considered on the basis of exceptional professional experience (of at least five years) in a legal area or an area directly related to their programme of study.
For the English language requirements for this course, see programmes with non-standard English language requirements .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/technology-media-and-telecommunications-law-online-pgcert:
This PGCert gives you the opportunity to analyse how technology, media and telecommunications law has affected the application of traditional legal principles.
Examine the complex issues, precedence and developments of law and policy and learn how to apply learned knowledge to enhance your career.
Join our upcoming webinar on this programme with Julia Hornle and Laura Edgar on 13 May at 12pm BST.
Register now
This Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law PGCert is tailored for you if you wish to obtain an award route; Certificate in Digital Media Law, Certificate in IT or IP Law, Certificate in E-commerce Law or a Certificate in Telecommunications Law.
The programme draws on our established teaching and research expertise in IT law, e-commerce law, telecommunications law, computer law and media law.
You will examine the complex issues concerning national and international law, while exploring current and developing policies.
You’ll learn to identify gaps, conflicts and compliance issues and develop expertise in the legal regimes governing the supply and use of technology, media and telecommunications.
You have the option to attend the annual Residential Weekend for Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law Online Learning students, giving you the chance to network with staff, alumni and fellow students.
The flexible nature of this programme allows you the full benefits of studying for a recognised UK university qualification whilst still in full-time employment.
You will be taught to apply your learning and expertise to your professional work straight away, helping you to further your career.
Non law gradautes can take a LLM.
Successful graduation may qualify you to progress onto the Pre-Sessional Module on Legal Systems, Research Skills and Writing for IT Law or the Diploma.
You should apply for this course through Informa Connect .
Travel and accommodation costs if you choose to go on the Residential Weekend
You will need to complete 60 credits in total:
Modules for this programme are offered on a two year cycle, and are subject to availability.
Read our .
This programme is delivered via our web-based online learning environment (OLE).
All written assignments are submitted through the e-learning system.
You are encouraged to interact with teaching staff and other students in online discussion forums, join group activities and be part of the student community.
You also have the option to give a research seminar paper/presentation where you will give a 30-minute presentation at the residential weekend in June on a topic of your choice agreed with your supervisor followed by the submission of a 5,000-word essay during the May – August term.
You can start the programme in either the autumn term or the spring term.
You should return your completed application forms two months before the start of term.
For example, for an autumn start you will need to return your forms by mid-July and for a spring start you will need to return your forms by the beginning of November.
BA, MA, PhD, Solicitor of the Senior Courts of England and Wales
Professor Walden's current research interests are cybercrime and cross-border access to electronic evidence, communications law, media regulation and free and open source software.
His publications include Computer Crimes and Digital Investigations and Telecommunications Law and Regulation.
Administration for this programme is based at Lincoln’s Inn fields.
We have specialist career advisers who organise events and assist with finding internship opportunities at UK and international law firms and other employers.
I’m an entrepreneur, running my start up.
Electronic Engineer and Lawyer.
This is the perfect thing for me.
I travel a lot for my work, so this is a perfect way to get access to what’s going on.
Flexibility to create my own programme according to my needs was the reason I made the decision.
The number of students is low, so you get a lot of direct support.
Luiz Claudio Guimades E Silva, Luiz Claudio Guimades E Silva, Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law (Online) PGCert
January 2026 | 1 - 2 years
We will also consider an undergraduate degree in Media studies, Computer science, IT, telecoms, or other related subject
.
Equivalent professional qualifications and experience will be considered on an individual basis.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/technology-media-and-telecommunications-law-online-pgdip:
This PGDip gives you the opportunity to analyse how technology, media and telecommunications law has affected the application of traditional legal principles.
Examine the complex issues, precedence and developments of law and policy and learn how to apply this knowledge to current events and cases.
This Technology, Media and Law PGDip is tailored for you if you wish to obtain an award route; Certificate in Digital Media Law, Diploma in IT or IP Law, Certificate in E-commerce Law or a Certificate in Telecommunications Law.
You’ll learn to identify gaps, conflicts and compliance issues and develop expertise in the legal regimes governing the supply and use of technology, media and telecommunications..
You have the opportunity to attend the annual Residential Weekend for Technology, Media and Telecommunications Law Online Learning students, giving you the chance to network with staff, alumni and fellow students.
Non law gradautes can take a Pre-Sessional Module on Legal Systems, Research Skills and Writing for IT Law .
Successful graduation from this course may qualify you to progress onto the LLM.
Travel and accommodation costs if you choose to go on the Residential Weekend.
You will need to complete 120 credits in total.
We have dedicated law careers advisers who organise events and internship opportunities with top UK and international law firms.
January 2026 | 2 - 6 years

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/subjects/computer-science.html:
Computer Science at Queen Mary is part of the wider School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science.
This School has a dynamic community of over 200 PhD students and 80 Post Docs working on cutting-edge research.
The research is broadly organised into the following research groups .
Please visit the School website for a list of current PhD projects, supervisors and funding opportunities www.eecs.qmul.ac.uk
Staff and students in this School also have the opportunity to work in these three interdisciplinary research centres:
Full details of how to apply for a PhD in this field can be found here
Candidates should not apply using the buttons on this page until they have read the application instructions on the School website.
It is also strongly advised, although not a formal requirement, to make informal contact with the chosen supervisor before submitting the online application.
here is a wide range of funding available for PhD study in this field.
Individual projects will be advertised on www.findaphd.com and all scholarship opportunities are advertised on our.
Queen Mary leads an AI + Music (artificial Intelligent and Music) Doctoral Training Programme and more information about this specific funding opportunity can be found here .
Queen Mary is a new member of the Intelligent Gaming and Gaming Intelligence Doctoral Training Programme and more information about this specific funding opportunity can be found here .
Melissa Yeo Research Students Coordinator Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 5357 Email: phd-enquiries@eecs.qmul.ac.uk
Dr Arkaitz Zubaiga Director of Graduate Studies Email: a.zubiaga@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/biochemistry:
100 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2021/22).
Learn more about our graduate career prospects

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/biomedical-engineering:
Hub for healthcare innovation
We ’ re at the forefront of areas such as predictive modelling, regenerative medicine and medical robotics.
Our Biomedical Engineering programmes have been accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Successful completion of the foundation year will offer progression to BEng or MEng Biomedical Engineering.
Biomedical Engineering graduates commonly find work within the medical device industry, or as Clinical Scientists or Clinical Engineers.
Some choose to pursue graduate entry medicine degrees, while others go into research careers, in areas from stem cells and tissue engineering to biomechanics and implant design.
Because the Biomedical Engineering degree at Queen Mary is a solid, professionally-accredited engineering degree, graduates also find employment in other areas of engineering and technology.
*Graduate Outcomes Surveys, 2019-22

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/biomedical-sciences:
91 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2021/22).

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/environmental-science:
Explore the relationship between the human and natural environment to help build a sustainable future for us all.
Interested in looking after our planet for future generations?
From conserving biodiversity for sustainable development to tackling air pollution and flooding, you’ll be focused on finding solutions to the planet’s urgent problems.
Taught collaboratively between the Department of Geography and the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences, you’ll have the unique opportunity to extend your interests in biology, ecology, and evolution.
And you’ll apply your new knowledge to develop an understanding of the biological, physical, and chemical processes that drive change in the Earth’s system.
You’ll be driven to create a positive impact by our expert research-focused academics.
Imagine being taught by leaders who’ve had research included in groundbreaking climate change reports, and others who’ve featured on BBC Panorama.
Or how about being taught by academics who’ve worked inside government shaping UK climate policy?
After developing skills in our labs using our state-of-the-art instrumentation and modelling methods, you’ll have opportunities to apply your learnings during field trips.
You could be exploring ecological interactions in Somerset.
Or perhaps travelling to South Africa to study the savannah ecosystems.
All of this will prepare you for a range of careers.
From contaminated land assessment to sustainable natural resource management, and conservation to geospatial analysis – where will this course take you?
This programme is accredited by the Community for Environmental Disciplines in Higher Education (part of the Institution of Environmental Sciences), and the Institute of Sustainability and Environmental Professionals (ISEP).
You can complete your Environmental Science degree in three or four years.
For full details on all of our modules please go to the online module directory .
*Fieldwork module.
Flights, shared accommodation, transport in Malta and meals will not cost you anything extra on this compulsory module.
Students are responsible for securing their own visas, if required.
For full details on our modules please go to the online module directory .
Fieldwork destinations may vary year-on-year, are subject to availability and depend on the module combinations chosen.
Overseas fieldwork modules run in alternate years.
Places are limited - if a module is oversubscribed, places will be allocated by ballot.
Students on overseas field trips are responsible for securing their own visas, if required.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Environmental Science BSc with a Year Abroad.
Optional UK and overseas fieldwork trips in the second- and third-year cost approximately £450-£1,500 (based on 2022-23 costs) depending on destination, including flights, accommodation and expenses on location.
What inspired my decision to study at Queen Mary was the strong emphasis on fieldwork.
My trip to the Cairngorms in Scotland stands out as a particularly memorable and immersive learning experience.
Its high mountains, distinctive tors, and tundra vegetation provided an unparalleled setting for our fieldwork.
The experience of being surrounded by nothing but white snow and successfully completing our research left a profound impact on me.
On average, you can expect to spend eight to 12 hours per week in a combination of lectures, tutorials, supervisions, seminars, workshops and practical classes.
For every hour of classes, expect to do a further two to four hours of independent study.
Fieldwork is central to all our programmes and takes place in London, the UK and overseas.
Find out more about our field classes and how they help you apply your studies to real-world contexts.
All students have an academic advisor that they meet with regularly across each semester to review their studies and to check-in on their well-being.
Read more about the advice and support services available to students in the Department of Geography.
Modules are assessed through a combination of coursework and examination.
Coursework may include extended essays, short reports, posters, oral presentations and group work.
Students must also complete a final-year independent study project of 10,000 words, based on an original study of their choice.
The Department of Geography offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Full details on our laboratory facilities can be found here .
Find out what our students and staff think about studying environmental science at Queen Mary.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC, including at least one of the following subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Geography, Geology, Psychology, Environmental Studies or Environmental Science at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC, including at least one of the following subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Geography, Geology, Psychology, Environmental Studies or Environmental Science at A-Level.
This programme will equip you with advanced environmental understanding and practical skills, ready for employment in the sector.
Many of our Environmental Science graduates use their scientific knowledge directly, as environmental consultants, engineers, nature conservation experts, or water quality scientists .
Others take their transferable skills into diverse careers, from town planning to responsible investing .
Discover what our recent students are doing after graduation and read more about their experiences on this course.
Environmental Science s tudents benefit from dedicated careers support, including lectures and tutorials on career choice, getting work experience and presenting degree skills to an employer at interview.
Find out more about how we have integrated careers support into all of degree programmes to help you to maximise your potential and achieve your ambitions.
Environmental Science - BSc (Hons)
Environmental Science with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
The School of Geography at Queen Mary University of London provides an innovative education across diverse subject areas in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Staff and students alike strive to solve the major environmental and societal challenges of our time, generating rigorous research evidence and turning that into impactful practical and policy change at a local or national and even global level, often working with powerful partners like government agencies and big tech companies to drive progress.
The School is one of the top 100 geography departments in the world (QS World University Rankings 2023), while the Research Excellence Framework (2021) puts the quality of our research in the UK top 10.
Thanks to our local, national and international links, you’ll have opportunities to work with community groups, environmental trusts and charities, applying your classroom learning to real-world problems.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/environmental-science-with-business-management:
Find solutions to the planet’s urgent problems while exploring the rapidly evolving business landscape.
Care about the future of our planet and want to get sustainability on the business agenda?
This course might be exactly what you’re looking for.
Become part of a university community that is shaping responsible business practices, fostering sustainable economic growth and addressing environmental challenges.
Modules from The School of Business and Management make up a quarter of our programme – you’ll learn about financial management, marketing, strategy and human resources.
Then we’ll spend the rest of the time teaching you about issues like tackling pollution and conserving biodiversity with modules taught in the School of Geography and the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences .
You’ll also get the chance to explore different areas of biology, ecology and evolution that interest you.
After developing skills in our labs using our state-of-the-art instrumentation and modelling methods, you’ll have opportunities to apply your knowledge during field trips.
Or perhaps travelling to South Africa to study savannah ecosystems.
You’ll be driven to create a positive impact by our expert researchers.
Imagine being taught by leaders who’ve had research included in groundbreaking climate change reports and others who’ve featured on BBC Panorama.
Your combination of business know-how and environmental expertise will prepare you for a range of careers in the public and private sectors.
From contaminated land assessment to sustainable natural resource management and conservation consultancy to geospatial analysis – where will this course take you?
You can complete your Environmental Science with Business Management degree in three or four years.
If you choose to do study abroad, this will take place in Year 3 and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
For full details on all of our modules please go to the online module directory .
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Environmental Science with Business Management BSc with a Year Abroad.
Studying Environmental Science with Business Management has been a very rewarding and fulfilling experience.
With committed lecturers in the department, the course has equipped me with in-depth knowledge and business management skills to navigate and explore sustainable solutions to the environmental challenges the world is facing today and potentially in the future.
All students have an academic advisor that they meet regularly across each semester to review their studies and to check-in on their well-being.
Read more about the advice and support services available to students in the School of Geography.
The School of Geography offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Many of our Environmental Science with Business Management graduates use their subject knowledge directly, in environmental consultancy, responsible investing, natural resource management or property asset management.
Others take their transferable skills into other careers, from town planning to finance.
Environmental Science with Business Management students benefit from lectures and tutorials on career choice, finding work experience and presenting degree skills to an employer at interview.
The School of Business and Management can help you find part-time projects in local charities and short internships in local businesses and start-ups, and you will also benefit from specialist support and subject-specific careers events in the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences.
Environmental Science with Business Management - BSc (Hons)
Environmental Science with Business Management with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
The School of Geography provides an innovative education across diverse subject areas in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Staff and students strive to solve the major environmental and societal challenges of our time.
We're committed to generating rigorous research and turning that into impactful practical and policy change.
The School is in the top 100 geography departments in the world (QS World University Rankings 2023) and the Research Excellence Framework (2021) puts the quality of our research in the UK top 10.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/intercalated-biomedical-engineering-and-clinical-materials:
Understand how advanced engineering and new materials are overcoming medical problems.
Our intercalated BSc in Biomedical Engineering and Clinical Materials gives students already taking a medical or dental degree the chance to achieve an additional degree in a specialist field in just one year.
Engineering technologies are becoming increasingly important across all areas of medicine, with state-of-the-art imaging, robotic surgery, tissue engineering, implantable medical devices and monitoring systems.
In this programme, you’ll study the exciting and fast-moving field of engineering and materials-based technologies within the medical environment.
You’ll cover biomechanics, biomaterials, computational methods in medicine, tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, medical imaging and rehabilitation technologies.
You’ll also undertake an original research project alongside leading teams at the Institute of Bioengineering, which will arm you with specialist knowledge and expertise and help you develop a host of practical and transferable skills.
This research accounts for 50% of your final mark and may lead to opportunities to contribute to a conference abstract or publication.
The intercalated research project will provide: ⦁ An opportunity to pursue a research area in depth and disseminate the findings in peer-reviewed conference abstracts, scientific and medical journals.
⦁ An opportunity to pitch your research to the scientific, clinical and industry community at the Annual Intercalated Symposium and ILF events.
⦁ An opportunity to submit a patent application supporting entrepreneurship and innovation in Medical Healthcare Technology with the Queen Mary Innovation (QMI) team.
⦁ An opportunity to take part in the IMechE Healthcare Technology student and Early Career biomedical competitions and win summer research scholarships (eg.
Rod Flower, Blair Bell, Barts Health, EJ Ball) and Awards (eg.
Wolfson Award, Beryl Beadle, Royal College of Surgeons).
Apply by 1 February 12 noon to start your intercalated degree in September.
You can start your one-year intercalated Biomedical Engineering and Clinical Materials BSc after the second, third or fourth years of your MBBS, BDS or BVetMed.
The intercalated research project is worth half the degree (60 credits) and will run across the entire academic year.
You'll choose four modules (15 credits each) during semester A and B.
Specific guidance on the selection of modules that match the research projects will be provided by the tutors and the programme director.
You'll study a range of core principles that:
You will be able specialise in a range of areas including:
An intercalated degree will broaden your studies as you gain an additional qualification.
It will also:
Find out more about intercalated degrees
What drew me to this course was intrigue in how cutting edge engineering technologies such as nanotechnology and stem cell applications can be harnessed to solve very real medical dilemmas.
The course also stood out because of its early involvement in the lab project, allowing me to gain a rewarding learning experience in research.
You'll be taught through lectures, small-group tutorials, visiting speakers and virtual lab sessions.
For every hour spent in class, you'll need to carry out additional hours of independent study.
Assessment typically includes a combination of written exams, and coursework involving practical sessions and the virtual lab.
Intercalated degrees are for undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in the MBBS or BDS programmes at Queen Mary, or at another medical, dental or veterinary school.
A-level Pass in Mathematics or Physics
Medical students You must have completed 2, 3 or 4 years of the MBBS course (1 or 2 years of a graduate entry programme) and passed all years to date.
Dental students You must have completed 2, 3 or 4 years of the BDS course and passed all years to date.
You must also have completed all continuous assessment and have satisfactory annual progress reviews.
Veterinary students Veterinary students are welcome to apply.
All students Satisfactory performance in, and completion of, all student-selected components (SSCs).
Selection Students who meet the criteria will be asked to attend an interview.
Where there is competition for places, students will be ranked on their exam results to date and their interview performance.
How to apply See full information on how to apply for intercalated degrees .
Students from the UK and overseas are welcome to apply for our intercalated degrees.
Find out more about our intercalated degrees.
UK students accepted onto this course are eligible to apply for  from Student Finance England or other government bodies.
Medical and dental students from Barts and The London will be considered for various bursaries based on research interests, financial need or academic merit.
These bursaries are not available to students from other medical schools, or to Barts and The London students who choose to intercalate externally.
With its focus on research, this programme forms a strong basis for careers in academic medicine.
Your understanding of the interface between medicine and technology will be also be an advantage in any area of clinical work.
Tel: +44 20 7882 7560

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/intercalated-experimental-pathology:
Advance your understanding of major diseases of the modern world and the latest research into treatments.
Our intercalated BSc in Experimental Pathology gives students already taking a medical or dental degree the chance to achieve an additional degree in this specialist field in just one year.
The programme is ideal if you want to specialise in the study of disease.
It is designed to give you a thorough grounding in specific areas of experimental pathology, covering some of the major diseases of the modern world – including Neurodegenerative diseases and Cancer.
Teaching emphasises the importance of research and experimentation, and how the latest technological innovations can benefit patients.
Core modules include Cancer Biology, Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, Molecular Basis of Personalised Medicine and Perspectives on Brain Disorders.
You'll undertake your own original research project under supervision over a six-month period, which will allow you to think creatively and develop skills such as work planning, forming hypotheses and analysing data.
You can start your one-year intercalated Experimental Pathology BSc after the second, third or fourth years of your MBBS, BDS or BVetMed.
It might also:
Experimental Pathology has given me in-depth knowledge in stem cell technology, cancer biology, neuropathology, cardiovascular pathophysiology.
The stem cell module was captivating and I now understand how engineered stem cells treat diseases.
Similarly, other modules tackle the latest developments, like targeted cancer therapies or the elasticity theory in cardiovascular aging.
Supervision for research was first-class and I quickly performed techniques like cell culture, Western immunoblotting, FACS.
This experience increased the chance research will be part of my medical career and improved my writing/presentation skills.
You'll receive approximately three hours of weekly contact time per taught module, comprising formal lectures – including from colleagues in the NHS and, in some cases, specialists from abroad.
For every hour spent in class, you'll complete a further six hours of independent study.
Assessment typically includes a combination of exams, coursework and project write up.
The School offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies.
You’ll be based in the Blizard Building, which houses state-of-the-art facilities for students and staff including open-plan research laboratories, a 400-seat lecture theatre and a café.
You’ll also have access to:
Intercalated degrees are for undergraduate students currently enrolled in the MBBS or BDS programmes at Queen Mary, or at another medical, dental or veterinary school.
Your in-depth understanding of major diseases such as cancer and heart disease will be also be an advantage in clinical work.
The Blizard Institute is the largest institute within the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
We aim to deliver excellence in all aspects of research, teaching and clinical service: our research output is ranked joint first in the UK for hospital based clinical research and first in London for health services research.
We work in partnerships with neighbouring NHS Trusts, healthcare professionals and local communities on research to address the health needs of our local population.
The Global Public Health Unit brings together leading researchers and teachers in public health policy, all of whom share a commitment to reducing health inequalities and promoting universal health care in and beyond the UK.
Tel: +44 20 7882 2271

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/intercalated-neuroscience:
Learn the concepts and intricacies of neuroscience, and put them into practice with your own original research.
Our intercalated BSc in Neuroscience gives students already taking a medical degree the chance to achieve an additional degree in a specialist field in just one year.
This challenging and rewarding programme, led by internationally recognised researchers, is aimed at students with a keen interest in the field.
We pride ourselves on training the next generation of medical neuroscientists.
You’ll study the anatomical, physiological, chemical and immunological processes of the normal nervous system, how these are altered in specific disease states, and the latest approaches to treatment.
You'll develop a critical understanding of complex concepts in neuroscience – particularly those relevant to the medical field and unmet clinical needs.
Following training in research methodology and practical skills, you'll undertake an original research project – a chance to demonstrate your understanding of experimental design and data acquisition and analysis.
You'll be encouraged to present your research at conferences, and have chances to co-author publications.
You can start your one-year intercalated Neuroscience BSc after the second, third or fourth years of your MBBS, BDS or BVetMed.
The intercalated degree has given me the opportunity to carry out laboratory experiments, which is something I hadn’t experienced as part of my medical training.
It has stimulated my interest in research and has made me more likely to consider carrying out laboratory research whilst being a doctor.
Furthermore, having an intercalated degree will strengthen my CV, meaning I am more likely to get my desired jobs in my foundation years and beyond.
In Semester A you'll receive approximately eight to 10 hours of weekly contact time, carrying out independent study for the remaining time in the week.
In Semester B, in addition to the Research Project module, you'll take one taught module with approximately two hours of weekly contact time and six to 10 hours of independent study.
You’ll learn through:
You’ll be encouraged to be proactive and explore further through reading primary literature and reviews.
You’ll be assessed through a mixture of in-course assignments and essay examinations.
The Neuroscience Research Project module will be primarily assessed in the form of a written thesis.
The Faculty offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies.
You’ll be based in the Blizard Building, which houses state-of-the-art facilities for students and staff – including open-plan research laboratories, a 400-seat lecture theatre and a café.
Intercalated degrees are for undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in the MBBS, GEP or BDS programmes at Queen Mary, or at another medical, dental or veterinary school.
Our students graduate with in-demand specialist knowledge of modern medical neuroscience, an advantage if you later apply for postgraduate training in this or a related field.
With its emphasis on research skills, the programme also forms a strong basis for careers in academic medicine.
Tel: +44 20 7882 2287

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/intercalated-pharmacology-and-innovative-therapeutics:
Gain an appreciation of the scientific foundations of clinical medicine and study the scientific basis of pharmacology and the clinical trials industry.
Our intercalated BSc gives students already taking a medical or dental degree the chance to achieve an additional degree in this specialist field in just one year.
Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics is the study of how drugs and therapies work, and the development of new ones.
As research lays bare the molecular basis of disease and treatment, medical staff and researchers need increasingly specialist knowledge in molecular and cellular biology, biochemistry and chemistry.
You’ll cover a number of specialist topics in pharmacology such as drug design, translational pharmacology, innovative therapeutics and clinical trials as well as the role of regulatory agencies in therapeutic innovation and commercial exploitation.
The programme will give you expertise in the discipline, and practical experience of laboratory research.
It will enhance your understanding of drugs and prescribing, bringing benefits throughout your medical degree and clinical practice.
As part of your degree, you'll work on a research topic of your own choosing, alongside leading teams at the William Harvey Research Institute.
You can start your one-year intercalated Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics BSc after the second, third or fourth years of your MBBS, BDS or BVetMed.
·        Intercalated Research Project
·        Classic Papers and Current Topics in Pharmacology
·        Clinical Trials and Regulatory Affairs
·        Drug Design for Pharmacologists
·        Translational Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics
Choose one from
·        Biomarkers in Neuroscience
·        Cancer Biology
·        Molecular Basis of Personalised Medicine
·        Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine
Assessment typically includes a combination of written exams, coursework essays, journal clubs and oral presentations, and project write up.
With its focus on pharmacological research, this programme forms a strong basis for careers in academic medicine.
Your understanding of the actions of drugs and ability to evaluate the latest research will also be an advantage in any area of clinical work or within the pharmaceutical and clinical trials industry.
The William Harvey Research Institute was founded in 1986 by the Nobel Laureate Sir John Vane, discoverer of the action of aspirin and prostacyclin.
Since 2000, as part of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry and Queen Mary University of London, the Institute has gone from strength to strength.
We are currently the largest pharmacological research institute in the UK university sector and one of the largest in Europe.
Along with our commitment to high-quality research, we also offer education programmes at undergraduate, postgraduate and research level, which are taught by world-leading experts in the fields of cardiovascular, endocrine and inflammation research.
We are proud to have been awarded the Athena SWAN silver award for our ongoing commitment to advancing women’s careers in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 8478

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/intercalated-sports-and-exercise-medicine:
Direct your medical studies towards the innovative and hands-on field of sports and exercise medicine.
Our intercalated BSc in Sports and Exercise Medicine is an exciting, evidence-based programme that gives current medical students the chance to achieve an additional degree in this specialist field in just one year.
With growing interest in sports and leisure activities, together with the problems of obesity and chronic disease, there’s increasing recognition of the importance of treating injuries and preventing illness through exercise.
You'll gain the knowledge and skills to assess sports injuries and understand relevant treatment options, and a solid understanding of the physiological and psychological benefits of exercise.
Taught modules cover detailed musculoskeletal anatomy, medical problems in sport, exercise medicine and physical activity prescription principles, biomechanics and injury rehabilitation.
We place a strong emphasis on paper and quasi-experimental research, with students undertaking both a systematic review and a full research project.
Many of our students publish their work in research journals and present at national and international conferences.
You can start your one-year intercalated Sports and Exercise Medicine BSc after the second year of your MBBS.
Semester 1 modules (15 credits each):
Choose from:
Semester 2 modules (15 credits each):
Research project : Semesters 1 and 2 (45 credits)
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops, directed reading and practical sessions.
The department has a dedicated teaching space with modules delivered using a hybrid learning approach.
This mixed mode of education includes asynchronous and synchronous activities with intensive weeks of face-to-face teaching for all taught modules.
You will receive 30 contact hours per module, with additional learning support through online and face to face peer and tutor contact.
For every hour spent in class, you'll complete a further two to three hours of independent study.
Assessment methods, include coursework, written examinations, case studies, presentations, group assessments, and your research project.
Intercalated degrees are for undergraduate students currently enrolled in the MBBS programmes at Queen Mary, or at another medical school.
Medical students
You must have completed 2 years of the MBBS course and passed all years to date.
You must have shown satisfactory performance in, and completion of, all student-selected components (SSCs).
Dental students This programme is not available to dental students.
Veterinary students This programme is not available to veterinary students.
Your BSc will be an advantage if you later apply for postgraduate training in sports and exercise medicine, or fields such as general practice, orthopaedics, rheumatology or emergency medicine.
Tel: +44 20 7882 5011

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/medical-genetics:
Medical Genetics at Queen Mary University of London ranked 2nd in the country for ‘Organisation and Management’ and 4th in UK for 'Assessment and Feedback' in the National Student Survey 2024.
83 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within six months of graduation (HESA GOS 2021/22).

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/neuroscience:
In the final year, pick from modules covering subjects such as stem cells, the repair and regeneration of the nervous system, perspectives on brain disorders and drug design .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/pharmacology-and-innovative-therapeutics:
Each module is assessed by written examinations and/or coursework (practical reports, essays, posters, presentations, problem sheets, online exercises and tests.
Final-year students undertake a research or investigative project, assessed with a detailed written report, poster and presentation.
87 per cent of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22).
Recent BSc Pharmacology and Innovative Therapeutics graduates are employed in roles such as:
Our graduates work in a range of organisations including:
Graduate Outcomes Survey 2020/21 and 2021/22

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/psychology:
Choose six electives from:
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy: An Introduction
Please note that all modules are subject to change

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/biomedical-engineering-conversion-msc:
Part of: Engineering and Biological and Biomedical Sciences
This flexible MSc programme is designed for graduates of science disciplines who wish to pursue a career in bioengineering.
Learn to use methods and techniques developed in traditional engineering fields, and adapt them to address challenges in healthcare diagnosis and treatment.
Our comprehensive programme covers the fundamentals of biomedical engineering, before allowing you to specialise in key areas.
This programme aims to equip you with the skills necessary for a career in biomedical engineering.
You’ll take compulsory modules on bioengineering in urology, plus ethics and regulatory affairs.
Our non-credit bearing 'Essential Mathematics Skills for Engineers' module also brings you up to speed with the mathematical concepts engineers use to design structures, predict performance, and optimise systems.
The rest of your programme is determined by your interests and career aspirations.
You'll have the flexibility to choose modules in diverse areas including medical robotics, cell and tissue biomechanics, medical imaging, electronics, and digital manufacture.
You'll complete a large-scale individual research project in our excellent facilities, which include high-performance computing clusters and specialised laboratories.
Our MSc in Biomedical Engineering (Conversion) has been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) and Institution of Mechanical Engineers under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
The accredited MSc will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Accredited MSc graduates who also have a BEng (Hons) accredited for CEng will be able to show that they have satisfied the educational base for CEng registration.
Graduates from an accredited MSc programme that do not also have an appropriately accredited bachelor's degree will need to have their qualifications individually assessed through the accrediting body's Individual Case Procedure if they wish to acquire CEng status.
This module provides students with knowledge of basic mathematical skills that are essential for Engineering students.
Topics covered are basic logic, sequences and series, limits, differentiation and integration, partial derivatives, complex numbers, basic vector calculus, matrix algebra and an introduction to ordinary differential equations.
The module is an intensive research module that spans all three MSc semesters.
It draws together the knowledge and skills from the taught component to address a research challenge of significant scope to be undertaken independently, under supervision.
It focuses on the technical, project management and communication skills needed to successfully execute academic- and/or industry-oriented research.
The project entails to apply research methods to solve original problems of fundamental or applied nature.
This module provides an introduction to applied medical ethics and law related to the development of new products in the field of bioengineering.
It provides knowledge of the regulatory mechanisms of approval of products for clinical use in the UK, the EU and the US, risk management and design processes.
The course explores a broad range of biomedical engineering applied to the clinical area of urology.
Urological problems effect 80% of people within their lifetime necessitating the use of diagnostic and therapeutic technology.
This important area of clinical bioengineering is rarely covered in degree programmes, despite the unmet need for skilled bioengineers in this area.
The module covers the basic physiology and biophysics of the urinary tract in health and disease, with particular reference to clinical incontinence, clinical measurement and urodynamics as used by clinical scientists and clinical engineers for diagnostic assessment.
It also considers the development and use of current and future medical devices including urinary catheters and implantable stents, artificial urinary sphincters, functional electrical stimulator implants and urological tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
The module  is supported by external, clinical and industrial experts providing specialist information with the possibility of additional patient perspectives.
This module is taught using flipped learning, that enables students to fully engage with the subject matter and learning objectives.
This involves interactive face-to-face small group supervisions with the module organiser(s) and external experts.
Students  gain both subject specific knowledge and transferable, professional practice skills including the ability to explain and discuss bioengineering concepts,  to ask appropriate technical questions of experts,  to conduct data analysis tasks,  to present graphical data, and  to review and discuss scientific literature.
This module covers embryonic and adult stem cells,  applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine; Cell technology: experimental methods in human cells and organ culture; Tissue engineering - emerging technologies include tissue scaffold design, biomaterials, use of bioreactors, nanotechnology, engineering nanomaterials, microfluidics; and Tissue engineering from concept to clinical practice: basic research through to clinical application and impact of therapies
This module covers the fundamental areas of medical robotics and surgical techniques, introducing various medical robotic systems and their applications.
These include surgical robots and robotic devices, prosthetics, assistive and rehabilitative robots and endoscopic robots.
An insight into the engineering design, fabrication, control and comprehensive operation will be provided.
In addition, a wide range surgical techniques and safety with a focus on equipment for use in surgery will be included.
The importance of electrical safety, the regulations governing equipment, the principles of operation of a number of important
monitoring devices and some of the major medical equipment used within a surgical environment will be covered.
This module will provide a comprehensive understanding of the concepts related to and underpinning biocompatibility.
It will cover topics including proteins and protein adsorption, biomaterial- cell, blood and tissue interactions,  Inflammation, wound healing, foreign body response, Toxicity, hypersensitivity and infection.
The pre-clinical testing of biomaterials will be considered with respect to chemical exchange and degradation, cell response (proliferation vs differentiation), evaluation of material compatibility, evaluation of device functionality (biomechanics, remodelling/adaptation).
The importance of the intelligent design of pre-clinical test regimes and unbiased critical analysis of test data to drive development and new innovation in biomaterials and medical device design will be emphasized through consideration of case study scenarios.
Clinical trials and regulatory approval will also be discussed.
This module is concerned with natural biological materials and how design is optimised for appropriate function.
It reviews the mechanics of natural tissues and cells and how they relate to structure and composition.
The methods by which structures can function effectively within their natural load environment are also covered, in addition to how they may change with age, disease or damage.
It brings this together considering the current methods for characterizing and investigating structure-function in tissues.
This hands-on module will guide the students through the process of biomedical device prototyping and manufacturing via various examples of fluidic chips, implantables, and functional tissue replicas which they will design and fabricate in the lab.
Students will become familiar and practice the basics of (1) various polymerization modalities; (2) design for manufacturability principles; (3) advanced fabrication techniques, and (4) metrology and characterization methods to analyze the printed devices and implants.
By the end of the module, they will be able to apply their understanding of manufacturing process capabilities and constraints to the design and manufacture of a new biomedical device which they will be challenged to develop and prototype for the final project assessment.
The lab in conjunction with the complimentary modules will equip the students with the experience and skillsets required to operate in a medical device industry as a product engineer or product R&D researcher.
This module will explore sensing and measuring physical quantities interfaced to computer-based data acquisition and processing tools.
As the signals produced are often complex and plentiful, tools to  process and analyse them appropriately will be covered.
Additionally, both theoretical and practical skills of data acquisition, build and signal processing will be taught.
Key software of importance for managing the signals will be introduced and applied to students' fields of interest.
Biomedical imaging refers to the use of various techniques to create detailed images of the body or its individual parts, which can be used to diagnose and guide treatment of a wide range of medical conditions.
Biomedical engineers help make sense of the images by developing and advancing image analysis techniques.
This module provides an introduction to biomedical imaging, covering the fundamental concepts and techniques used in biomedical imaging, and their applications in diagnosing and treating various medical conditions.
It will further disseminate critical parameters to assess image quality, functions for image registration, enhancement, segmentation, and quantification, as well as statistical and machine learning techniques in image analysis.
Finally, clinical interpretation skills will be developed.
This module will provide an understanding of biopotentials and other biological signals, and identify mechanisms and principles by which they can be measured via sensors.
It will offer a detailed understanding of the fundamental principals associated with transducers and sensors, and a comprehensive review of the most widely used techniques for the diagnosis and treatment of disease states alongside the problems of sensing in a biological environment.
The research project forms a major component of your degree.
You’ll complete this under close supervision.
Recent Biomedical Engineering (Conversion) research projects include:
"You get loads of hands-on experience where you apply what you’ve learned in a practical situation, and you get a lot of control over what you study – it’s really up to each person’s preference."
Joshua Daoud, Biomedical Engineering (Conversion) MSc, 2024
You'll be taught by staff with a wide variety of industry and research experience, in areas such as mechano bio logy in osteoarthritis , nanostructured b io m aterials in skin tissues and bio compatible bio sensors.
Our teaching staff have links with organisations such as the Royal Society of Medicine, the European Academy and OAtech + Network.
Our academic research feeds into our teaching at all levels, ensuring you share in the latest advancements.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and laboratory sessions, as well as completing coursework for academic feedback.
Dr Caroline Roney has an MMath in Mathematics from the University of Oxford, and an MRes in Biomedical Research from Imperial College London.
She received her PhD degree in signal processing of cardiac arrhythmia data from the Department of Bioengineering and National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London (2011-2015).
She  worked in the computational modelling team at Liryc, University of Bordeaux, funded by a Fondation Lefoulon Delalande fellowship (2015-2017).
2015-17 she was an MRC research fellow at King's College London working in the Cardiac Electro-Mechanics Research Group.
BSc (Hons), MA, PhD
Professor Lee was recently awarded funding from the OAtech+ Network to research mechanobiology aimed at targeting osteoarthritis.
His research has been published extensively, including in the Biophysical Journal, Journal of Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, and Embo Rep.
Christopher Chapman is a Lecturer in Bioengineering at Queen Mary University of London in the School of Engineering and Materials Science.
He leads the Continuous Advanced Recording for Cancer lab which is focused on developing bioelectronics with applications in diagnosis, monitoring, and identification of cancer.
His expertise is in the field of bioelectronic, specifically in the fabrication and clinical translation of implanted devices for electrical stimulation and recording of the central and peripheral nervous system.
Dr Gupta’s research interests are in tissue mechanics, bone and cartilage disorders, impact resistant biocomposites, nano- and microscale mechanics of biological and biomimetic composites and synchrotron in situ X-ray nanomechanical imaging.
CEng, PhD, BSc, MIMMM, FRSA, FRMS, FWES, FHEA
Dr Hing co-founded Queen Mary spin-out company ApaTech Ltd, which was acquired by Baxter in 2010 for $330m, largely due to Actifuse, a fully synthetic ceramic bone graft substitute material, which she developed.
She’s now engaged in developing the next generation bone graft substitution technologies.
BSc, MRes, PhD, FHEA
Dr Su has a multidisciplinary academic background centred on optical devices and instrumentation.
He completed his PhD at Nanyang Technology University and did his postdoctoral training at the University of Cambridge.
He worked at St Mary’s Hospital London with surgeons to develop medical devices.
Dr Pensalfini was previously Project Leader for a Spanish Marie-Curie match-up grant and Research Director for an ERC-Consolidator grant at the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya-BarcelonaTech.
He has MedTech industry experience by working as Senior Research Engineer for Zimmer Biomet.
He holds Mechanical Engineering degrees from ETH Zurich (PhD: '19) and Bologna University (MSc: '14; BSc: '11), including stays at Purdue University and UW-Madison.
His work has been awarded the 2020 Young Investigator Award by SKINTEGRITY.CH, the Swiss-wide consortium for research on skin.
BEng, MSc, PhD, FHEA
Professor Knight researches how living cells and tissues within our bodies sense and respond to mechanical forces.
He has published over 100 papers and attracted over £8M of research funding, including project grants from EPSRC, BBSRC and MRC, as well as EU, Wellcome Trust and other charities.
rer.
nat., MRSC, FHEA
Steffi's research focuses on the development of electrochemical imaging and chemical and biological sensor technologies, and her group has recently developed photoelectrochemical imaging with high spatiotemporal resolution.
This measurement technology has shown great potential in the functional imaging of living cells and is expected to aid the understanding of disease mechanisms and biological processes.
PhD (Sheffield)
Dr Zhu's main research interests are in Socio-technical Data-driven dynamical systems, including Nonlinear dynamics; System identification; Complex systems analysis and design; System condition monitoring; Vibration isolation and control; Energy harvesting, etc., as well as their engineering applications across a variety of disciplines.
Our facilities include:
Teaching is based at the School of Engineering and Materials Science, on Queen Mary’s main Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
Researchers within the School may also have access to other specialised facilities elsewhere at Queen Mary, such as Nanoforce, NanoVision and the Blizard Institute for Cell and Molecular Science .
Our Mile End campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, including the Senate House library.
You’ll leave this MSc as a well-qualified graduate, with opportunities for employment in many leading industries, as well as in research.
Graduates of our Biomedical Engineering programmes have gone onto a diverse range of job roles including:
At organisations including:
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in a science subject (such as Biology, Biotechnology, Biomedical Science, Biochemistry, Medicine, Life Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Pharmacology, Pharmaceutical Science etc).
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Engineering and Materials Science falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/biomedical-engineering-msc:
This MSc programme allows students to gain an in-depth, interdisciplinary understanding of engineering approaches to biological and medical problems, through selection of one of four professional pathways:
On this programme, you'll examine and carry out cutting-edge research with practical applications, to prepare you to become a biomedical engineering specialist.
The course is designed to help you to develop a strong foundation in advanced experimental, computational, and analytical techniques, leaving you well-equipped to innovate and excel in diverse professional arenas.
You'll be supported to gain the knowledge and skills required to pursue your ideal career, through selecting one of four professional pathways: Clinical Engineering, Biomechanics, Biomaterials or Artificial Intelligence and Digital Healthcare.
Our MSc in Biomedical Engineering has been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Graduates from an accredited MSc programme who do not also have an appropriately accredited bachelor's degree will need to have their qualifications individually assessed through the accrediting body's Individual Case Procedure if they wish to acquire CEng status.
Pathway A - Clinical Engineering
Pathway B - Biomechanics
Pathway C - Artificial Intelligence and Digital Healthcare
Pathway D - Biomaterials
Students may not select: Interpretation and Analysis in Biomedical Imaging, Clinical Applications in Regenerative Medicine; Biocompatibility Evaluation for Clinical Innovation, or Experimentation and Modelling in Cell and Tissue Biomechanics, if they have previously studied EMS620U, EMS617U, EMS615U, or EMS618U at undergraduate level, respectively.
Past Biomedical Engineering MSc research projects include:
"As a student on this course, you’ll experience good quality academics, facilities and use of technology, in a place that makes you feel like you belong."
Metzli Hernandez Marchena, MSc Biomedical Engineering, 2023
You’ll be taught by world-leading academics and engineers, with specialisms in nanostructured biomaterials, mechanobiology, regenerative medicine and more.
Teaching staff members have previously been awarded research funding from the likes of the Wellcome Trust and the European Union, and have been recognised with teaching awards from Times Higher Education and Reimagine Education.
Professor Sukhorukov was named among top-10 world known scientists of Russian origin by Forbes (Oct 2011).
He worked as visiting professor in IMRE, Singapore, Saratov State University (Honorary professor) and Northwestern Polytechnic University, Xian, China (Adjunct Professor).
Dr Jamone is an expert in Cognitive Robotics, Robotic Manipulation, Tactile Sensing, Robot Learning and Haptics.
His main research interest is in Cognitive Robotics: building intelligent robots by taking inspiration from humans, and validating theories of human cognition by testing computational models on robots.
School facilities include:
Explore our facilities using our virtual tour .
Teaching is based at the School of Engineering and Materials Science’s postgraduate facilities, on Queen Mary’s main Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
Researchers also have access to other specialised research facilities elsewhere at Queen Mary, such as Nanoforce, NanoVision and the Blizard Institute for Cell and Molecular Science .
Graduates from our Biomedical Engineering programmes have gone onto a diverse range of job roles including:
"My dissertation supervisor was interested in my ideas and dedicated to fostering an inclusive lab...
Even after I had finished my degree, he supported my professional growth."
Andy Kempchinsky, Research Technician at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Centre
Biomedical Engineering MSc, 2020
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in an Engineering subject (e.g.
Biomedical, Mechanical, Chemical, Civil, Aerospace, Robotics) or a related discipline (Materials Science, Maths, Physics).

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/biomedical-science-medical-microbiology-msc:
Part of: Medicine and Biological and Biomedical Sciences
Analyse cutting-edge medical microbiology research, assess methodologies, and propose new ideas.
Gain hands-on experience in a clinical microbiology laboratory, engage in collaborative discussions, and relate studies to real-world practices.
Whether you are progressing from undergraduate study, or working around your existing role, this MSc will prepare you for your first role or allow you to progress into a new role in the field.
Through the tools taught on this programme, you will be able to evaluate current research and advanced scholarship in medical microbiology, evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, propose new hypotheses.
Full-time students continuing their studies will expand on the knowledge developed at undergraduate level, to prepare you for a career in the field of biomedical science and medical microbiology.
Part-time students who are studying around their current work commitments will develop the knowledge needed to progress in the field and enter a new, more advanced role in the field.
Practical classes are taught in the purpose-built teaching laboratory, which is based on a routine clinical microbiology laboratory and has received an award for sustainability .
They are designed to give you invaluable hands-on experience, particularly in basic clinical microbiology.
You will also be encouraged to relate current workplace practices to your studies, discuss and critically evaluate these techniques with class members, and undertake an active role in independent study outside of the classroom.
Additional theoretical tutorials are also used throughout the year to broaden your experience of biomedical science.
These tutorials include case presentations to and by students, workshops, discussion sessions, question-and-answer sessions, and oral presentations.
This course can also enhance the career prospects of those aspiring to middle and senior management positions within the NHS Pathology Service and commercial sector.
As a full time student, you will attend additional formative studies during your year on the course, to enable you to integrate with the part time (day release) students.
These studies include Problem Based Learning (PBL) sessions, tutorials, additional practical sessions, and attendance at relevant journal clubs and research seminars.
We aim to support you so you can participate fully during the in-class discussions with part time students, who can reflect on their work place experiences.
You will be supported in developing an understanding of principles and practice of microbiology and infection control within the NHS, UK and global perspective (please note, this is not a work placement).
You will do this with the use of tutorials, practical classes and additional assignments.
As a full time student, you must attend the teaching on this module.
The majority of the module teaching is provided during semester 1 (October-December).
This module will provide you with a detailed knowledge and understanding of the structure, mode of action and resistance mechanisms of antimicrobial agents.
You will gain practical knowledge and experience of the laboratory determination of antimicrobial susceptibility and determining mechanisms of resistance.
In this module, you will cover all aspects of communicable disease control in the hospital and community.
The module will introduce you to practical epidemiology with special reference to clinical microbiology and infectious disease in the community.
You will focus on the relationship between the NHS, PHE, infection control teams, environmental health services and other relevant bodies in the UK.
You will also study the surveillance, legislation and methods of control of hospital acquired infection.
As well as looking at UK-wide systems you will also explore the worldwide public health issues, which have implications for public health in the UK.
The overall aim of the module is to ensure you have the underpinning knowledge of the importance of research, development and innovation across the NHS and in healthcare science in particular.
Furthermore, it will provide you with the knowledge for the research project.
Throughout this module, you will study microbial infections of humans.
We will explore the clinical presentation, laboratory diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy and infection control issues of the microbial infections both theoretically and practically.
You will study the infections by organ system, e.g.
the respiratory tract and gastrointestinal tract, and by looking at specialist patient groups, e.g.
the immuno-compromised and paediatrics.
In this module, you will be introduced to the key concepts of laboratory management.
You will study, reflect and critique good management practice legislation relevant to:
¿ Diagnostic laboratories
¿ Health and safety in the laboratory
¿ Development of standard operating procedures
¿ Quality assurance in the laboratory
¿ LEAN evaluation 
¿ Audit processes
You will learn methods of evaluation of new methods for use in the diagnostic laboratory.
You will understand the concepts of standard operating procedure and quality assurance and, will develop the skills necessary to produce relevant documents for laboratories.
The overall aim of this module is for you to undertake research that shows originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret new information in a specialism of healthcare science.
You will undertake an original piece of research involving the application of scientific investigations to one or more clinical situations.
This module offers you teaching and workshops covering the principles of molecular biology and the biology of bacteria, and explores the use of current molecular techniques in the research and diagnosis of infectious disease.
You will also study the human immune system and the interaction of micro-organisms with the host immune system.
This module will provide a systematic overview of the major groups of bacteria and viruses which cause disease in humans and the principles of the laboratory identification of the organisms.
Whilst focusing on the biology and identification of individual or groups of organisms, students will also be encouraged to consider aspects of pathogenesis, antimicrobial therapy, epidemiology, and infection control, including the roles of national and international reference services to consider the national and global epidemiology of the organisms.
This module will provide a systematic overview of the major groups of parasites and fungi which cause disease in humans and the principles of the laboratory identification of the organisms.
Modules are assessed by final written examinations and a series of in-course assessments.
The in-course assessments consist of literature reviews, oral and poster presentations, practicals and written exams.
The research will show originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret new information in a specialism of healthcare science.
The course aims to promote teaching and learning enriched by original scholarship and scientific research; encouraging students to become independent learners.
Formal teaching comprises of lectures, workshops, practical classes and demonstrations.
Many of the lectures are given by guest speakers who are acknowledged experts in their field from within the NHS, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) or are highly respected researchers.
This ensures the course remains up to date and relevant to your future career and also enables you to develop a strong network of contacts.
Part-time students are encouraged to relate current practices in their workplace to their studies, to discuss and critically evaluate these techniques with their colleagues in light of their formal teaching.
The practical classes for both full-time and part-time students are taught in the purpose-built teaching laboratory, which is well equipped with all necessary materials and is based on a routine clinical microbiology laboratory.
You'll also be assigned a personal mentor, who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters throughout your time at Queen Mary.
Michele Branscombe is a Senior Lecturer in Infection Science, She is the programme director for the Biomedical Science (Medical Microbiology) and Clinical Microbiology programmes.
Jamie Roberts is the Teaching Laboratory Technician in the purpose-built clinical microbiology teaching lab, who manages the practical elements of the Biomedical Science (Medical Microbiology) and Clinical Microbiology programmes.
PhD, Fellow of the HEA
Dr Olivier Marchès is a non-clinical lecturer who teaches on the Biomedical Science (Medical Microbiology) and Clinical Microbiology programmes.
He is the module lead for 'Molecular biology pathogenesis and immunology'.
At Queen Mary you will have access to a number of advanced facilities, some of which are designated exclusively to postgraduate students.
The Blizard Institute is the largest institute of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
Our research and education span broad areas of modern biomedicine, with particular expertise in cell biology, genomics, immunology, neuroscience, primary care, population health and trauma sciences.
Our research puts Queen Mary joint seventh in the UK (REF 2021).
We work closely with linked NHS hospital trusts which means that the School’s research and teaching is informed by an exceptionally wide-ranging and stimulating clinical environment.
Barts Health NHS Trust is home to:
Queen Mary University is also part of the prestigious Russell Group - a body of leading UK universities dedicated to research and teaching excellence.
Students of this course have gone on to work at the NHS, Health Services Laboratories, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), Medical Health Care Regulatory Agency, and Singapore General Hospital.
They are working in roles such as Medical Laboratory Assistant, Healthcare Scientist, Biomedical Scientist, Trainee Biomedical Scientist, Senior Biomedical Scientist, and Associate Practitioner.
Source: Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019/20 and 2020/21
Please note: Completion of this postgraduate degree will not fulfil the education criteria for State Registration as a Biomedical Scientist with the Health and Care Professionals Council (HCPC).
Please check with the appropriate bodies that the course you plan to follow will be suitable for any professional accreditation you may require.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Biomedical Science.
Alternative qualifications and relevant work based experience will be considered on an individual basis.
The English language requirements for our programmes are normally indicated by an English band assigned to the academic department within which your chosen course of study is administered.
However, this course does not follow the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences standard English language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes.
For the English language requirements for this course, see programmes with non-standard English language requirements in this School.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/biotechnology-msc:
Part of: Biological and Biomedical Sciences and Engineering
A recent agreement between the UK and US to develop a new partnership on science and technology has led to an increasing demand for professionals in industrial biotechnology and synthetic biology, also known as engineering biology.
In this programme, students will learn to approach biotechnology as engineers.
Specific skills taught in the programme include DNA assembly, next-generation sequencing technologies, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, cell-free synthetic biology, directed evolution, bioinformatics and coding.
In the first semester, students will study four compulsory modules, covering Principles of Synthetic Biology, Industrial Biotechnology, Unix and Analysis of Large Genomic Datasets and Responsible Innovation and Commercialisation.
In semester two, students will take two compulsory modules covering Genome Editing in Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology, and Proteins and Biocatalysts in Biotechnology.
Students will also undertake a Biotechnology Research Project, which will be supervised by academics who specialise in a wide range of disciplines, including structural biology and evolutionary genetics.
During this module, students will run an experimental investigation involving laboratory work and/or computational work in a cutting edge area relating to biotechnology or synthetic biology, within the research environment of SBBS.
The student will perform a research project that either investigates a specific problem, is hypothesis-led or has a specific focus on applied research.
The student will regularly interact with their supervisor(s) to discuss, plan and troubleshoot their project, as well as learn project-specific skills.
They will also attend internal research seminars and research group meetings and typically spend a proportion of each day (from Jan until July) in the laboratory doing research.
The project will conclude with a series of short written and spoken reports: Poster Presentation, Oral Presentation and Project Report.
The report will be in the form of a mock pre-print including a title, abstract, methods, results and discussion.
The module actively introduces you to the cutting-edge research field of synthetic biology, which is enabling far-reaching impacts in medicine, climate change, and manufacturing.
The module explores the emerging potential of synthetic biology as we focus on learning the core principles, including the conceptual design, build, test, and learn cycle (DBTL) framework for engineering of biology.
We will discuss its vital tools and navigate ethical considerations, encompassing both the potential misuse and the profound societal and economic impacts.
We will embark on a transformative learning journey that unlocks the limitless potential of synthetic biology, empowering you to shape the future.
In this module we introduce you to the growing area of industrial biotechnology and its significance to the bioeconomy.
Industrial biotechnology harnesses the power of biological processes and organisms to develop biosustainable solutions and products for a wide range of industries.
This includes key products such as biofuels and biopharmaceuticals, as well optimisation procedures such as scaled up biological production and downstream processing.
Overall, this field holds tremendous potential for transforming traditional industrial practices and addressing global challenges.
This module will include a combination of seminars, workshops and hands-on practical work, as well as being exposed to experts in the field.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the principles, applications, and future prospects of industrial biotechnology.
The module emphasizes practical learning and offers state-of-the-art knowledge in genome editing.
It focuses primarily on understanding clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) and CRISPR-associated protein Cas9 (CRISPR-Cas9) as powerful tools for editing and detecting nucleic acids such as DNA and RNA.
CRISPR-Cas9 is extensively used in modern biotechnology and synthetic biology laboratories, making it an essential practical skill for biologists in today's industry.
The module centers around engineering biological systems with a focus on responsible innovation and commercialisation.
It acknowledges the significance of responsible innovation at both the national and international levels and its connection to content of the programme  involving applying engineering principles to biological systems.
Additionally, the module delves into the process of transforming an idea into a commercially viable product, the consideration of ethical and regulatory steps, securing financial investment, understanding intellectual property (IP) and patent development, and employing various strategies to leverage IP for commercialisation.
The students' comprehension of these concepts will be evaluated through a Dragon's Den-style slide deck pitch, where they will seek start-up funding.
Proteins offer a viable alternative as we seek to transition away from the synthetic materials and heavy metal catalysts routinely used in synthetic chemistry.
Both natural and synthetic protein catalysts provide a wealth of opportunity, particularly in obtaining structural and mechanistic insight.
This module expands functional knowledge and detail which, in turn, will facilitate the future development of next generation biocatalysts.
This module aims to refine the students understanding of how we can manipulate the function of proteins and enzymes for applications including sustainable materials (i.e., fibres), the breakdown of plastic in the environment, through to capturing carbon from the atmosphere.
Students will have the opportunity interact with academics who specialise in a wide range of disciplines, including structural biology and evolutionary genetics.
Hands-on experience in the lab is where theory meets practice!
I am grateful for the opportunity to learn and grow as I dive deeper into my studies.
Deep Dharmendra Rai, Msc student,  2024
You will also be assigned a supervisor for your Biotechnology Research Project.
Elena teaches on the Proteins and Biocatalysts module and the Research Project in Industrial Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology module.
Her research interests focus on covalent ligand discovery and development and novel pharmacological modalities for use in Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery.
Ewan is a biochemist whose research area is in biochemistry/molecular biophysics and in particular the folding, design and molecular interactions of proteins.
Dr Nazanin Owji currently teaches on ton modules focusing on Industrial Biotechnology
Students will be able to utilise state-of-the-art facilities and technologies that experienced researchers in this area are using today including fluorescence microscopy, cryo-electron microscopy, cell-free systems, mass spectrometry and automation.
Students who successfully complete the programme will be equipped with the skills and knowledge to go into a variety of established and emerging biotechnology and synthetic biology start-ups and incubators, in addition to larger biotechnology companies employing graduates in this field.
The UK is also home to the largest number of biotech start-ups in Europe (McKinsey), with job opportunities both inside and outside of London.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Biomedical Sciences; Biochemistry or related subjects.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-genomics-and-data-science-msc:
Part of: Biological and Biomedical Sciences and Medicine
Biomedical science is increasingly data driven and a wide range of state-of-the-art techniques in cancer genomics and data science is required to analyse multi-layer large scale cancer datasets and derive meaningful interpretable results.
However, there is a serious shortage of well-trained people who have the relevant skillset and hands-on experience in real world biomedical and cancer data.
Join our Cancer Programmes webinar on Thursday 12 June 8-9.30am to find out more.
Register your place
Biomedical science is increasingly data driven, as new bioanalytical techniques deliver ever more data about DNA, RNA, proteins, metabolites and the interactions between them in the whole tissue and single-cell levels.
A wide range of state-of-the-art techniques in the field of cancer genomics and data science for example modelling, data integration, machine learning and AI is required to analyse multi-layer large scale cancer datasets and derive meaningful interpretable results.
However there is a serious shortage of well-trained bioinformaticians, computational biologists and data analysts who have the relevant skillset and experience in real world biomedical and cancer data.
This programme is designed to fill the gap between research and employment demands and student training, offering up-to-date modules focusing on “big-data” analyses and enabling these through use of high-performance computing, together with cutting edge research projects and practical training using real world cohort data.
You’ll be taught by academics who are actively engaged in developing bioinformatics and computational tools, and applying them in cancer and medical research areas such as genomics, proteomics, evolution, modelling and biomarker discovery.
We have an extensive network of academic and industrial collaborators around the UK, who contribute to teaching, co-supervise research projects and provide employment opportunities.
Watch our video to find out more about studying at the Barts Cancer Institute.
This module provides an introduction of computer programming of two most widely used programming languages in biomedical and cancer data science, R and Python.
It provides and trains students with the introduction of programming concepts, how to manipulate data frames, use regular expression, write/use functions and perform object oriented programming in both languages.
This module consists of both lecture and practical sessions, ensuring students understand and solve complex problems using real cancer data as examples.
This module is focussed on teaching the most up-to-date  pipelines and tools to analyse high-throughput omics data, including RNA-seq, DNA-seq, ChIP-seq, DNA methylation and proteomics.
Students will gain hands-on experience of analysing real-life patient and experimental data through use of high-performance computing.
Students will obtain competence in all aspects of the analytic workflow including data handling, QC, data manipulation, interpretation and visualisation.
This module is taught through both lectures and praticals, ensuring students are able to analyse diverse types of omics data.
This module is focussed on teaching advanced bioinformatics and computational skills to analyse omics data to address important cancer research and clinical questions, such as tumour evolution and immunogenomics.
Students will further their understanding of cancer genomics and transcriptomics, and learn essential skills and workflows of dissecting tumour clonal architecture and evolutionary patterns, deconvolution of immune cell infiltration, and deciphering tumour immunogenicity.
This module is taught through both lectures and praticals, ensuring students are able to process and analyse data, as well as produce and interpret meaningful results.
This module will give an introduction to theoretical modeling in biology.
It will introduce classical deterministic models, e.g.
exponential growth, Lotka-Volterra and SIR models, it will introduce basic ideas of probabilities and stochastic modeling leading up to the Luria-Delbrück experiment and its many applications to virus, bacteria and cancer evolution.
Although, we will discuss concrete mathematical models, the discussion will be on a high level and we expect no advanced mathematical background of students.
The main focus of the module is for students to learn about different single-cell technologies, focusing on single-cell assays for gene expression, chromatin accessibility, genomics and spatial methods and how integration of different modalities can provide a more holistic view of cell and tissue phenotypes, cell-cell interactions and cell state dynamics.
The module will introduce these technologies, their advantages and limitations, and will provide examples of how they can be applied in a real biological context.
The module will have a specific focus on computational analysis and integration of real data produced by these technologies.
The students will acquire analytical skills that will improve their employability in research and industry.
This module provides an introduction to data science, machine learning (ML) and AI, focussing specifically on their applications of analysing omics (e.g., transcriptomics and proteomics) and imaging data to identify novel features in biomedical and cancer research.
Lectures cover the methods, algorithms, workflows and application examples for different ML/AI techniques, as well as research / clinical questions they can address.
In practical sessions, students will gain hands-on experience in applying ML/AI techniques to different data types to generate robust and meaningful results.
This module provides an opportunity to further develop and apply skills learned during the taught modules of MSc Cancer Genomics and Data Science, by conducting a novel piece of bioinformatics and computational work, typically within an active research group either within BCI, QMUL or at a partner organisation.
The specific nature of each project will be determined through discussions between the student, the course director and the project supervisor but will involve applying analytical, investigative and communication skills and utilizing a range of bioinformatics and computational methods and tools in a cutting edge area of biological or biomedical research.
This module will provide detailed teaching on the principles and interpretation of large scale genomic and proteomic approaches to cancer, including: - The application of genomic technology - The working principles of expression array and genotype array technology - The principles of bio-statistical analysis of genomic data - The advantages and limitations of the various genomic approaches described - The use of proteomic approaches in studying cancers.
Assessment will be, but not limited to, short and long answer coursework, multiple choice questions, presentations and research dissertation.
Assessment has been designed to develop and assess a broad range of skills that will be essential for students in their future careers.
There will also be a 10,000 word dissertation.
You will undertake a research project focused on cancer genomics, bioinformatics, computational biology and data science.
You'll be taught through a variety of teaching and learning methods including lectures, practicals, seminars, self-directed learning, live Q&A sessions, case presentations, and reading lists of books and journal papers.
Research projects will be supervised by a Barts Cancer Institute (BCI) or Queen Mary researcher.
If you study part-time, the modules you’ll need to complete the programme will be spread over two years.
We take pride in the close and friendly working relationship we have with our students.
You’ll be assigned an Academic Mentor, who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters throughout your time at Queen Mary.
Diploma, PhD
Dr Werner's research combines mathematics, computer simulations and genomic information to study evolutionary processes, with the aim of understanding how a tumour’s evolutionary history is reflected in its genome.
BEng, MSc, PhD
Dr Jun Wang is an active researcher in cancer genomics and data analytics.
Dr Wang’s research focuses on developing and applying bioinformatics and computational approaches, including machine learning / AI algorithms, to analyse large-scale multi-omics cancer datasets to uncover novel diagnostic and prognostic signatures for patient stratification.
MSc, PhD
By integrating single-cell multi-omics data, imaging and computational methods, Dr Efremova's lab aims to dissect the cancer cell intrinsic traits and cell-cell communication networks that promote metastasis and therapy resistance.
BSc, PhD
Dr McClelland's research aims to understand the mechanisms that underlie numerical and structural chromosome aberrations in cancer at a molecular level, which also involves understanding how normal cells replicate and segregate their genomes.
Professor Cutillas' research group uses unique proteomics and computational approaches to understand how cell signalling pathways driven by the activity of protein kinases contribute to the development of cancer
Barts Cancer Institute is situated in Queen Mary’s beautiful Charterhouse Square campus.
This is where you’ll find our research laboratories, clinical trials centre and where most teaching takes place.
The Square is within minutes of the Barts Cancer Centre at St Bartholomew’s Hospital, one of the most advanced cancer centres in Europe.
Rich in history and diversity, Charterhouse Square is a bustling centre of energy and activity.
You will get to experience both old and new London.
Barts Cancer Institute (BCI) is one of the top five cancer research centres in the UK and is one of 14 Cancer Research UK Centres of Excellence .
Our research goal is to prevent cancer and develop better diagnostic techniques and treatments.
We are generously supported by research councils, industry and a number of charities, with the grants awarded totalling in excess of £15m per annum.
BCI is part of Queen Mary’s medical school, the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
The School is comprised of two world-renowned teaching hospitals, St Bartholomew's and The Royal London, which make an outstanding contribution to modern medicine.
Queen Mary is ranked joint seventh in the UK for the quality of our research (REF 2021).
We are a member of the Russell Group of leading research universities in the UK and proudly hold an Athena Gold Award in recognition of our commitment to gender equality.
You’ll leave this programme with competence in state-of-the-art analytic workflows and hands-on experience of a wide range of real-life cancer and medical data, so that you will be ready to meet research and industry needs after graduation.
There is high demand for well-trained bioinformaticians and computational biologists to manage, analyse, integrate and visualise “big data”, both in academia and industry.
Bioinformatics and data science skills are highly transferable, allowing skilled individuals to move to other sectors, such as data analytics, software development and quantitative finance.
We anticipate that graduates from this programme are likely to move into roles such as:
In both academia and industry, including large pharmaceutical companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, and start-ups.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in any subject, provided the degree contains satisfactory study of Mathematics and Statistics.
Subjects likely to contain sufficient quantitative elements include Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics, Mathematics, Statistics, Engineering, and Computer Science.
Applicants with a 2:2 degrees with relevant content and at least one year of relevant experience, for instance work in industry, analytics, diagnostic labs, scientific research etc, may be considered on an individual basis.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the Barts Cancer Institute falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-genomics-and-data-science-online-msc:
You will undertake a research project focused on cancer genomics, bioinformatics, computional biology and data science.
As a distance-learning student, you’ll be taught via our online platform, QMplus.
You’ll have access to recorded lectures, practicals, copies of the slides and other supporting materials, as well as live Q&A sessions with recordings.
We encourage you to interact with staff and students in our online forums, join group activities and become part of our student community.
Dissertations will be supervised by a Barts Cancer Institute (BCI) or Queen Mary researcher
Undertaking a masters programme is a commitment and you’ll be expected to spend time studying independently in addition to your contact hours.
Research projects will be supervised by a Barts Cancer Institute (BCI) or Queen Mary researcher and supervision meetings will be conducted by one-to-one online meetings using Teams and Zoom.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-pathology-and-genomics-msc:
Our programme will give you an in-depth knowledge of disease mechanisms and molecular technologies while also developing your critical and practical expertise.
You’ll gain the essential training you need to pursue a research career.
We also ensure you gain strong practical skills: you’ll take a research skills module and complete a three-month laboratory project.
This MSc will give you a theoretical and practical knowledge of modern molecular technologies as applied to human disease, with a focus on cancer.
You’ll also learn how to apply and interpret advanced molecular technologies and use them in pathology.
At the heart of the course is a focus on developing your skills in the laboratory, as well as a variety of other scientific and transferable skills.
By studying Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics, you’ll equip yourself with the tools to follow a career in academic research, either in the clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
We’ll keep you at the forefront of research: you’ll be taught by internationally renowned lecturers who produce ground-breaking research in cancer biology, genetics, screening, prevention and therapy, so you’ll stay up to date with the most recent medical advances for preventing and treating cancer more effectively.
This programme is delivered by the Barts Cancer Institute, a Cancer Research UK centre of excellence and part of the Cancer Research UK City of London Centre .
This module covers cell and molecular biology relevant to cancer, including: - The processes of carcinogenesis and DNA damage - The key cellular and molecular processes affected in tumour development - Key proteins and pathways regulating cell proliferation and cell death - A broader concept of malignancy and its nvironment - Processes involved in invasion and metastasis.
This module will provide an understanding of population-based studies and methodology used in cancer epidemiology, focusing on the value of these approaches in cancer prevention and in the design and evaluation of screening programmes.
Topics covered include: - The major environmental causes of cancer and their contribution to cancer worldwide - The potential for reducing cancer incidence - The role of screening in cancer control - The prospects for the chemoprevention of cancer in the next ten years.
To provide an understanding of basic disease processes - To become familiar with the terminology and concepts of pathological processes - To develop an approach to identify tissue types and interpret the histological features of pathological processes.
To provide an understanding of the principles band practice of molecular diagnosis in the detection and management of disease - To provide an understanding of quality assurance issues in the diagnostic setting - To give examples of the use of current molecular techniques in the management of disease - To provide practical experience of molecular techniques.
This module aims to provide students with detailed knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved in cancer development and to give an appreciation of the current hot topics in cancer research and their relevance to cancer diagnosis and management.
The major topics to be covered are: - The molecular mechanisms involved in cancer development - The role of the microenvironment in cancer - Emerging changes in classification of cancers - Predisposition to cancer - Cancer stem cells.
The module covers the techniques and knowledge needed to critically appraise published research, and carry out a piece of original research.
Topics include:
- How to review and interpret published research
- How to structure and write a research paper or lab write up
- Learn and use a range of statistical methodology
- The ethical and legislative framework in which research is undertaken
- Training in data preparation and presentation
The module gives the students hands-on experience of key lab techniques and the principles of how to interpret the findings.
Techniques include:
Skills in measuring accurately using pipetttes, weighing scales
Mathematical laboratory skills
Immunochemistry
Tissue Culture
RNA1 extraction and analysis
RT-PCR
DNA purification, analysis and cloning
Flow cytometry
This module provides an opportunity to further develop and apply skills learned during the taught modules by undertaking an independent, critical study and evaluation of an approved and relevant topic, typically within an active research group either within the Institute or at a partner organisation.
The specific nature of each dissertation will be determined through discussions between the student, the course director and the project supervisor but will involve applying analytical, investigative and communication skills and utilizing a range of research methods and tools.
The project is a core component of the Masters courses.
It is a substantial piece of full-time independent work which occupies the final three months of the course, running approximately from end of April/beginning of May to end of July.
A 5,000 word project describing the work must be submitted by a deadline at the end of July, and an oral presentation (12 minutes + 8 minutes questions) is assessed by at least two members of BCI faculty.
Students can start some preparation work earlier; May is the latest it can start.
The project is undertaken by the student; it is not done by the supervisor on the student's behalf.
Projects are demanding and involve spending all your hours on the subject, however students learn a huge amount in the process and it really gives them a very good idea about the process of research.
Very successful students have in the past stayed on to do higher degrees (PhD) and more.
Supervisors and students are also given guidance as to the expectation of their role.
This module will cover the fundamental molecular and biological mechanisms involved in the development of leukaemia and lymphoma.
It will specifically address the impact of chromosome abnormalities on the diagnosis, prognosis, risk stratification and management of patients, and include a theoretical and practical understanding of cytogenetic and molecular cytogenetic technology.
The contribution of the host microenvironment to tumour cell survival and proliferation will also be discussed.
This module will provide an understanding of the science behind the biological therapies of cancer, and an up-to-date review of the current status of preclinical and clinical trials.
The module will also provide an insight into the ways that laboratory research is translated into clinical trials.
By the end of the module you will be able to: Understand the basis of biological therapy of cancer; Understand the role of non-malignant cells and mediators in cancer growth and progression
Assessment will be based on written assignments and posters and oral presentations.
Examinations will be in the form of online assessments which may consist of timed essay questions, short answer questions or case studies
There will also be a full laboratory project write-up.
You will also be assessed on a supervised 5,000-word laboratory project.
Recent projects include:
The laboratory project involves 10.5 weeks of full-time work in one of the Institute’s research centres.
If you are a part-time student there may be some flexibility to arrange part-time projects.
The MSc in Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics was an interesting and educational course.
I enjoyed being taught about the most recent advances in the field by leading scientists.
The opportunity to work in a lab as part of the research project was highly informative; I discovered my love for research and from this was able to fully decide my next step after my masters.
Arlinda Dullovi, Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics MSc, 2018
You’ll be taught through a mixture of formal lectures and small group seminars.
The seminars are designed to generate informed discussion around set topics, and may involve student presentations, group exercise and role-play, as well as discussion.
BSc, MSc, DEA, PhD
Professor Chelala’s interests lie in translational bioinformatics.
Current research projects focus on high-throughput data analysis, integration with clinical data, databases and software development, particularly for pancreatic cancer and breast cancer.
PhD (Manchester), FHEA, FIBMS
Dr Braun’s current research interests lie in epigenetic regulation of somatic mutagenesis in normal and malignant B cells.
He is BCI’s Director of Postgraduate Taught Programmes.
BSc (Hons)(London), MPhil (London), PhD
Professor Marshall studies the biology of tumour invasion with a particular interest in the roles of the adhesion molecules expressed on the cell surface that mediate this process.
BSC, MB.
ChB, PhD, FRCPath
Professor Louise Jones is the research lead for Molecular Pathology for Genomics England and lead for the Breast Cancer Campaign’s National Breast Tissue Bank.
Her research focuses on how disease progresses.
BSc (Hons), PhD (Oxford)
Dr Pearce’s research focus is the tumour microenvironment (TME).
His team is particularly interested in understanding the composition and function of the tumour extracellular matrix in immunosuppression.
BSc (Bristol), PhD (UCL)
Professor Grose’s research examines how cancer cells interact with each other and the microenvironment.
He is a member of the Bone Cancer Research Trust’s Independent Scientific Advisory Panel.
BSc (Edinburgh), MSc (Imperial), CStat
Professor Duffy is Director of the Policy Research Unit in Cancer Awareness, Screening and Early Diagnosis, funded by the Department of Health.
His research activities concentrate on cancer screening and early diagnosis.
MD (Zagreb), PhD (Imperial)
Professor Crnogorac-Jurcevic’s research focuses on molecular pathology of pancreatic cancer, in particular its development and progression.
She has a PgCAP and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
You’ll leave this programme with the clinical skills and experience necessary to pursue further academic research at PhD or MD level.
This programme also provides a strong foundation if you want to work in biotech research, hospital settings or in industry.
Career destinations of past Barts Cancer Institute students include roles in higher education, the NHS, the pharmaceutical industry and charitable trusts.
Our graduates go on to jobs such as:
Each year we retain a proportion of our graduates within the Institute as PhD students, research assistants or clinical trials co-ordinators.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject such as Biology, Chemistry, Pharmacology, Medicine from a recognised academic institution.
Applicants with a 2:2 degree will be considered on an individual basis.
The programme is open to graduate scientists, clinicians and other medical professionals working in healthcare, the pharmaceutical industry or contract research organisations.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-pathology-and-genomics-online-msc:
By studying Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics you’ll be equipping yourself with the tools to follow a career in academic research, either in a clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
We’ll keep you at the forefront of research: you’ll be taught by internationally renowned lecturers who produce ground-breaking research in cancer biology, genetics, screening, prevention and therapy, so you’ll stay up to date with the most recent medical advances, for preventing and treating cancer more effectively.
As an online-learning student, you have the option to either sit your exams onsite at Queen Mary or to arrange an approved alternative venue.
If you would like to sit your exams at a local venue, you will be responsible for making the initial arrangements and for any associated costs that may be charged.
Assessment will be based on written assignments and posters and oral presentations online.
The laboratory project involves 10.5 weeks of full-time work at an approved external organisation or one of our research centres.
If you are a part-time student, there may be some flexibility to arrange part-time projects.
I completed the MSc Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics as a part-time distance-learning student, while working full-time as a medical oncology senior registrar in Australia.
The lecturers were engaging and there was good support for flexible study, particularly for the laboratory project.
This course provided a helpful introduction to the scientific methods used for translational research in my current work as a clinical fellow at Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto.
Dr Michelle McMullen, Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics Online MSc, 2018
As an online-learning student, you’ll be taught via our online platform, QMplus.
You’ll have access to recorded lectures, video demonstrations, copies of the slides and other supporting materials.
You can interact with staff and students on our online forums, join group activities and be part of our student community.
The lab-based elements of this programme are taught through video tutorials.
You’ll carry out your lab project at an approved external organisation, whether this is your workplace or another site with which you have links.
As an online student, you’ll also have priority for a place in one of our research centres.
The programme is open to clinicians, graduate scientists, nurses, and other medical professionals working in a clinical, industrial or academic research environment.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-pathology-and-genomics-online-pgdip:
Our programme will give you an in-depth knowledge of disease mechanisms and molecular technologies while also developing your critical and practical skills.
You’ll gain the essential expertise and practical and research skills to pursue a research career, either in a clinical or scientific setting.
This Postgraduate Diploma will give you a theoretical and practical knowledge of modern molecular technologies as applied to human disease, with a focus on cancer.
By studying on the Cancer and Molecular Pathology and Genomics pathway, you’ll be equipping yourself with the tools to follow a career in academic research, either in the clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
As an online student, you have the option to either sit your exams onsite at Queen Mary or to arrange an approved alternative venue.
We encourage you to interact with staff and students in our online forums, join group activities and be part of our student community.
Undertaking a postgraduate programme is a commitment and you’ll be expected to spend time studying independently in addition to your contact hours.
You’ll leave this programme with the clinical skills and experience necessary to pursue further academic research at MSc level.
Each year we retain a proportion of our graduates within the Institute as research assistants or clinical trials co-ordinators.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-pathology-and-genomics-pgdip:
We’ll keep you at the forefront of research: you’ll be taught by internationally renowned lecturers who produce ground-breaking research in cancer biology, genetics, screening, prevention and therapy, so you’ll stay up to date with the most recent medical advances in cancer prevention and treatment.
The seminars are designed to generate informed discussion around set topics, and may involve student presentations, group exercise and role-play as well as discussion.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-and-cellular-biology-msc:
Our programme will give you a grounding in the molecular and cellular biology that underpins cancer biology and research.
You’ll discover how the treatment and diagnosis of cancer has advanced and how new therapies are developed, evaluated and implemented.
You’ll also gain strong practical skills: you’ll take a research skills module and a three-month laboratory project.
This MSc is also available for intercalating MBBS students.
Please find more information here
Join our Cancer Programmes webinar on Thursday 12 June 8-9.30am to find out more .
This MSc gives you a detailed and thorough understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of cancer and its treatments.
You’ll also develop a deep knowledge of cancer biology, pathology, pharmacology and drug development.
You’ll study research methods and techniques, enabling you to make the most of the three-month laboratory project that forms a central component of the programme.
During your laboratory project, you’ll be fully integrated into one of the Institute’s six research centres , gaining valuable scientific and transferable skills.
You’ll also gain experience of the research process – including preparation of a thesis – so you’ll have a solid foundation for a future career in scientific research.
This module will provide teaching in pharmacology relevant to the treatment of malignant disease, including: The basic concepts of cancer chemotherapy; Practical and theoretical aspects of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics; The basic clinical and molecular pharmacology of the major classes of anti-cancer agents; Novel cancer therapies using small molecules.
On completion of this module you will have detailed knowledge on the principles and practice of drug development at all stages of the development process, including: Ethical and good practice issues; What a therapeutic target is; How novel therapeutic targets are identified; How therapeutic targets are validated; Early clinical trials methodology.
The module will provide an intense and comprehensive overview of Paediatric and Adolescent Oncology, from disease aetiology to novel treatments, and aims to equip the student with a fundamental understanding of the subject area.
Topics covered include: - The aetiology of paediatric leukaemia and selected paediatric solid tumours - The molecular aspects of selected paediatric cancers, and how understanding the genetic basis of such cancers has improved molecular diagnostic techniques - The principles of paediatric cancer therapy, from past to present, including novel targeted therapies - The treatment of cancer in adolescent patients.
This module will introduce the student to the terminology of pathology and histology, and describe the pathological processes of tumour development.
It will also introduce students to the vital role that imaging plays in all aspects of the management of patients with cancer, including different imaging technologies, their application, and risks to the patient.
Teaching will be delivered as lectures, microscopy sessions and powerpoint presentation of images.
You will also be assessed on a supervised laboratory project.
You will also complete a 5,000-word write-up.
If you’re a part-time student, there may be some flexibility to arrange part-time projects.
I really enjoyed studying at the BCI.
The MSc programme offers you taught modules in a broad range of cancer research related subjects, as well as hands-on research experience through your lab project.
Both form a good basis for your scientific career, for example if you want to do a PhD.
On top of that the people were very nice and supportive.
I would therefore recommend studying at the BCI!
Daniel Muliaditan, Cancer and Molecular and Cellular Biology MSc, 2018
You’ll be taught through a variety of teaching methods including: seminars, laboratory practice sessions, self-directed learning, one-to-one tutorials, case presentations, and reading lists of books and journal papers.
BSc (Hons) (Natal), MSc (Natal), PhD (ICR)
Dr Sosabowski is BCI’s Cancer Imaging group leader.
Her research interests are in radiopharmaceutical development and the use of pre-clinical molecular imaging in drug development, especially biopharmaceuticals.
PhD (King’s)
Dr Tony Ford is a senior staff scientist in the Centre for Evolution and Cancer at The Institute of Cancer Research, London.
He specialises in the molecular biology of childhood leukaemia.
This programme also provides a strong foundation if you want to work in a clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
Our graduates have gone on to jobs such as:
Each year we retain a proportion of our graduates within the Institute as PhD students, research assistants or clinical trial co-ordinators.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-and-cellular-biology-online-msc:
During your laboratory project, you’ll have the opportunity to undertake research at your workplace or an appropriate local research laboratory.
You’ll gain valuable scientific and transferable skills, as well as experience of the research process – including preparation of a thesis – so you’ll have a solid foundation for a future career in scientific research.
As a distance-learning student, you have the option to either sit your exams onsite at Queen Mary or to arrange an approved alternative venue.
On top of that, the people were very nice and supportive.
Daniel Muliaditan, Cancer and Molecular and Cellular Biology MSc
You’ll have access to recorded lectures, copies of the slides and other supporting materials.
You’ll carry out your lab project at an approved external organisation, whether this your workplace or another site with which you have links.
In some circumstances, distance learners may be able to carry out their lab project in one of our research centres, but priority for places is given to onsite students.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-and-cellular-biology-online-pgdip:
This Postgraduate Diploma gives you a detailed and thorough understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of cancer and its treatments.
You’ll also develop a deep knowledge of cancer biology, pathology, pharmacology and drug development, as well as a variety of other scientific and transferable skills.
By studying on the Cancer and Molecular and Cellular Biology pathway, you’ll be equipping yourself with the tools to complete academic research at masters level, or improve your career prospects in a clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
As a distance learning student, you have the option to either sit your exams onsite at Queen Mary or to arrange an approved alternative venue.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/cancer-and-molecular-and-cellular-biology-pgdip:
By studying on the Cancer and Molecular and Cellular Biology pathway, you’ll be equipping yourself with the tools to complete academic research at MSc level, or improve your career prospects in a clinical, pharmaceutical or diagnostic setting.
Examinations will be in the form of online assessments which may consist of timed essay questions, short answer questions or case studies .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/clinical-microbiology-msc:
Tailored for medical professionals, the programme imparts interdisciplinary skills and knowledge for advanced research.
Expert guest speakers and leading researchers ensure up-to-date content.
Collaborate with Clinical and Biomedical scientists, emphasizing real-world applications in advanced laboratories.
Develop critical evaluation skills, propose hypotheses, and build a valuable network for your future clinical career.
Specifically designed for those who have a medical background, this Clinical Microbiology MSc will give you the cross-disciplinary skills and knowledge you need to describe, understand and practice advanced-level research.
This course delivers a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of medical microbiology and professional practice.
You’ll be taught by world-leading experts, internationally recognised for their cutting-edge research in microbiology.
Many of the lectures are given by guest speakers who are acknowledged experts in their field from within the NHS and the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA).
You will learn alongside Clinical and Biomedical scientists enabling you to learn in a fully interdisciplinary environment.
The course covers a wide range of fascinating topics such as molecular biology, advanced clinical microbiology, pathogenesis and communicable disease, while honing in on laboratory management skills as well as current policy, theory and practice.
We place particular emphasis on real-world application, and you will be based at the Whitechapel campus of the medical and dental faculty.
Here, you will gain a practical understanding of techniques applicable to your own research or advanced scholarship.
You will also acquire the ability to evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses.
In this module, you will extend your knowledge acquired throughout the programme to create an in-depth knowledge of infectious disease.
You will also gain knowledge essential to the efficient management of a diagnostic laboratory.
Modules are assessed using a combination of final written examinations and a series of in-course assessments.
The in-course assessments consist of literature reviews, oral and poster presentations and practical and written exams.
The Research Project assessment is based on a 15,000-word written dissertation and an oral presentation.
The practical classes are taught in the purpose-built teaching laboratory, which is well equipped with all necessary materials and is based on a routine clinical microbiology laboratory.
Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry has an unrivalled tradition of excellence in research and teaching: The London was the first medical school in England, founded in 1785, and St Bartholomew’s Hospital, Britain’s oldest hospital, was established in 1123.
Our fantastic locations in both east and central London also mean that you will develop your clinical skills and knowledge while caring for a diverse local community.
We’re proud to be among the top seven research institutions in the UK (REF 2014) and work closely with linked NHS hospital trusts including Barts Health, Homerton, Newham, Whipps Cross and Queens’ (Romford).
We bring research, teaching and practice together, to create an exceptionally wide-ranging, inspiring clinical environment in which you'll study.
Graduation from this course allows you to apply your knowledge directly to the field.
It sets you up to work in research-focused positions such as consultant clinical microbiologists.
For example, a graduate of this course has gone on to become the Head of the Microbiology Unit in the Pathology and Microbiology Department, at the University Teaching Hospital, Zambia.
Students of our biomedical science courses have also gone on to work at the NHS, Health Services Laboratories, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), Medical Health Care Regulatory Agency, and Singapore General Hospital.
The programme is also a stepping-stone for those who wish to apply for Fellowship of the Royal College of Pathologists (RCPath).
A MBBS or basic medical degree from a university recognised by the General Medical Council (GMC).
Applicants with a minimum of a 2:1 degree in nursing or pharmacy (depending on the modules studied at undergraduate level) or equivalent, may also be considered.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/clinical-microbiology-pgdip:
Specifically designed for those who have a medical background, this Clinical Microbiology MSc will give you the cross-disciplinary skills and knowledge you need to describe and understand advanced-level research.
The in-course assessments consist of literature reviews, oral and poster presentations and practical and written exams .
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the Blizard Institute falls within the following English band:
Please note, there are some postgraduate programmes with non-standard English language requirements in this Institute.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/genomic-medicine-hee-funded-msc:
Advances in technology and informatics have fuelled an exponential growth in genomics research.
Take this popular programme to be a part of the genomic revolution – make your own discoveries, take part in cutting-edge research and open new avenues in drug discovery and patient care.
Recent developments have transformed our understanding of disease biology.
Genomics has strong potential to impact patient care and there is now an international call for highly trained professionals to implement it in the healthcare system, the pharmaceutical industry, and the broader biomedical sector.
This MSc in Genomic Medicine is developed in collaboration with University College London, Public Health England and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
It is designed to provide healthcare professionals with a multi-disciplinary perspective on genomics and its application in medicine, particularly in rare genetic diseases, cancer and infection.
The broad syllabus delivers the knowledge and training required to provide, develop and advance specialist scientific services around genomic medicine within healthcare systems.
You will be trained in state-of-the-art genomic platforms and informatics tools and learn how to apply them in the analysis and interpretation of whole genome sequence data from patients.
You will be trained to analyse high quality genomic data and have the opportunity to interact with international experts in this field.
Working directly with patient data from the 100,000 Genomes Project will offer you hands on experience of how genomics may be applied to diagnosis and patient treatment.
This programme will:
This module will provide clear understanding of the structure and variations in genetic material.
The module aim is to deliver a solid theoretical foundation in the area of basic genetics and genomics to the participants in order to understand the study of disease genetics and how genomic information can be utilised to understand disease mechanisms and biology.
The first section 'Genome Structure & Sequence variation' will review the architecture of the human genome and the functional units embedded.
It will then cover DNA sequence variation and how it is structured across the genome, explaining the principles of linkage disequilibrium and its extent in human populations.
The next part `Biology of Genomes' will cover in more detail aspects of gene regulation (enhancers, promoters, transcription factors, silencers) and chromatin structure (histone modifications; DNase I hypersensitive sites, open chromatin).
It will then discuss genetic control of functional elements introducing the basic principles of quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses.
Under the `Association Studies' section participants will be introduced to the principles of correlating genetic markers to phenotype as well as the design and execution of association studies both for dichotomous and quantitative traits .
Participants will learn how to critically interpret the output of association studies and the potential as well as the limitations of using such information to assess disease risk.
Under the Epigenetics section participants will be introduced to DNA methylation and its implication to human disease.
In the last section of this module participants will learn about integration of genetic data from an association study with genomic information to explore the biology of the investigated trait.
Module will deliver a comprehensive coverage of the techniques used to obtain the DNA sequence of targeted parts of the genome (e.g.
exome sequencing) or whole genomes using state-of -the-art highly parallel sequencing platforms.
Furthermore, it will provide clear understanding of the use of array based methodologies and RNA sequencing in estimating expression levels of protein coding genes, micro RNAs and long non-coding RNAs; gene expression is a key intermediate phenotype in genetic / genomic analyses of disease.
Finally, the module will offer an introduction to the evolving fields of metabolomics and proteomics covering some of the most established techniques currently used in biomedical research.
Students will learn to handle sequence files from exome and / or whole genome sequencing (e.g.
BAM files), apply quality control filters to remove outliers, call variants, annotate variants for functional consequences (e.g.
PolyPhene 2  is an algorithm for predicting the impact of amino acid changes on protein stability and function) and finally apply different filtering strategies using publicly available control data sets (e.g.
1000 Genomes Project) to identify pathogenic mutations.
The module will cover a wide range of statistical and bioinformatics techniques and tools such as:
- R package
- PLINK 
- GATK 
The module will also cover the use of databases and literature searches to critically assess and annotate findings of genetic and genomic analyses.
Theoretical sessions will be coupled with practical assignments of analysing and annotating predefined data sets.
The module will cover practical aspects of genomics research in common and rare diseases, identification of the genes responsible for some of the disorders and the application of genomics in diagnostics.
In rare diseases, participants will learn how to identify disease phenotypes that will benefit from exome and / or whole genome analysis and how to select cases and relevant family information.
The course will cover through specific examples the experimental approaches currently in use for identifying pathogenic mutations (variant calling, annotation and filtering against publicly available sets of variants such as the 1000 Genomes) as well as available databases and on line resources for assessing such mutations.
The module will provide an introduction to the principles of molecular pathology.
It will cover basic cancer biology and the role of the tumour microenvironment and how this may be exploited for therapeutic gain.
It includes the molecular classification of solid tumors - breast, melanoma and soft tissue tumours- and haematological malignancies, with an emphasis on how this may be applied for disease stratification, prediction and prognosis.
Students will learn about the analytical challenges in cancer genomics and in particular issues related to the purity of tumour material as well as the quality (many stored samples are paraffin embedded) and availability of samples which is often a limiting factor.
It will introduce the student to the challenges raised by genomic analysis of tumours, and how these may be overcome, and finally the application of cutting-edge technologies for the application of molecular diagnostics in the clinical setting.
This particular module will focus on understanding the complexity of pharmacogenomics and effect of medication on individuals based on their genetic makeup i.e.
techniques to stratify patients at risk of adverse drug reactions as well as tailoring drug treatment to improve patient response.
The course will use examples of known pharmacogenetic tests (e.g.
tamoxifen in breast cancer, warfarin in anticoagulation, abacavir in HIV).
Furthermore, it will cover the different type of biomarkers currently in use or emerging (e.g.
epigenetic markers)
The module will provide an introduction to the principles of microbial genome structure.
It will cover microbial genome sequencing in support of diagnosis and guiding patient care as well as the impact of microbial diversity on understanding and preventing infectious diseases.
The module will discuss the use of medical and biological and genetic information in tracking and managing infections and importantly antimicrobial resistance.
The genomics of host-pathogen interactions will be discussed.
The module will then cover the  approaches for characterizing novel and emerging pathogens.
Metagenomics as tools for deciphering complex microbial communities and how these influence the exchange of  virulence mechanisms and microbial resistance genes within the host.
Analysis of quasi-species through deep sequencing to demonstrate the impact of within host diversity on drug resistance and therapeutics particulalry for viral infections will be  explained.
Students will learn about the challenges that research is facing in  determining host-parasite interactions and patient susceptibility.
Students will use both the theoretical knowledge they acquired  throughout the taught part of the course  and the analytical skills they developed in order to tackle a research question by themselves.
The research question will be either in the form of an in depth literature search followed by a critical review / perspective on the selected topic or through undertaking a research project which involves formulating the question, acquiring and analysing the data and finally present and discuss results.
In the MSc programme in Genomic Medicine under the Modernising Scientific Careers path this module can be successfully completed by undertaking a 60 credits research project.
Projects will be preferentially selected to use experimental data sets from Genomics England that will be made available to participants through a dedicated secure embassy setting.
Project supervision will involve tutors from both the hosting NHS laboratory and the programme.
Research projects should be presented in the format of a Nature Genetics Letter.
As an alternative students can undertake the parallel 30-credits Dissertation module which is based on a literature based project, in combination with two optional modules.
In the standard  MSc programme in Genomic Medicine this module can be successfully completed by either undertaking a research project as above or by undertaking an extended literature based dissertation which will be presented in the format of a Nature Reviews Genetics review article and should not exceed 20,000 words.
The research question will be in the form of an in depth literature search followed by a critical review / perspective on the selected topic.
In the MSc programme in Genomic Medicine under the Modernising Scientific Careers path this module can be successfully completed by undertaking this 30 credits literature based project in combination with two additional optional taught modules (2 x 15 credits).
Participants should prepare an essay not exceeding 10,000 words which should follow the format of a review article.
Technological advances in the area of genomic medicine had led to new tests  with major impact on improving disease diagnosis and  effectiveness of treatments.
However, the continuous growth in the use of genomic technologies has often cost implications.
Using established economic models it is possible to successfully predict the costs of new treatments and assess  benefits to patients in the context of available budget for health care.
Moreover, this module will explore the factors that determine the effects of the rapid development of genomics on health care systems covering the role and relative influence the government, doctors and the public exert in this process .
These will be analysed to assess whether clients/patients are best served by current arrangements and whether people's health matches reasonable expectations.
Course participants will be encouraged to propose ways of tackling perceived shortcomings.
- Concepts of health and illness
- Measuring health at local and national levels
- Healthcare systems
- Critical reviewing literature to establish current knowledge
- Development and change in the NHS
- Evaluating healthcare improvements through research, audit, or service development
- Presenting research, audit, and service development
- Developing policies and clinical guidelines
- Equality, equity and health policy
- The professional in a large organisation
- Resource allocation and rationing
The module aims to provide a framework for ethical understanding of medical genomics.
Students will be provided with a platform of ethical understanding from which to consider  issues of human confidentiality, autonomy, disclosure, informed consent and natural justice.
Upon this platform, students will consider the impact of genomic technologies on individual lives and those of demographic and ethnic groupings.
The social implications of the availability of genetic testing and screening will be considered, especially in the context of reproductive technologies.
Finally students will be provided with a legal framework for patenting of genetic information as well as  the use of genetic data  for research, diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
The role of a genetic counsellor has significantly expanded over the past decade.
Students undertaking this module will be taught how to communicate and provide appropriate support to individuals affected by a genetic condition or are predisposed to a genetic condition.
Development of counselling skills will be achieved via theoretical and practical sessions.
After completing this module students will possess the skills and knowledge required to obtain the family and medical history, select and suggest the appropriate genetic tests, inform patients of their genetic predispositions and help individuals understand their genetic disease.
Moreover, students will be taught how to discuss reproductive options, inheritance pattern as well as prenatal diagnostics.
Students will use the knowledge they acquired  from the taught modules on genomics and disease (modules 1,2,3 & 6)  to build
a short case based portfolio of study, for example a family with a rare genetic condition, in which they will explore / evaluate  genomic approaches / practice in their work base.
The short case based portfolio of study will take place in the hosting NHS laboratory and where applicable will be under  joint supervision i.e.
tutors from both the hosting laboratory and the programme.
Modules will be assessed through tutorial work (including paper presentations), submitted assignments, practical reports and short examinations.
You will have the opportunity to focus on a piece of original research – this may be prospective and involve basic science or clinical skills and techniques, or it may focus on a detailed review of an area within the curriculum.
Working closely with Genomics England gives you the opportunity to interact with international experts in the field.
You will experience a variety of teaching and learning methods including lectures and seminars, guided reading exercises, and various activities incorporating individual and group work which will help you to consolidate your learning.
The William Harvey Research Institute (WHRI) places a high value upon training the next generation of researchers.
We are part of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry at Queen Mary University of London, which is ranked joint seventh in the UK for the quality of our research (REF 2021).
Our primary research focus and excellence lies in our cardiovascular, inflammation and endocrine research themes.
In addition, we achieve international excellence in critical care and perioperative medicine research.
We aim to combine talents from different disciplines such as genomics, cell biology, and pharmacology, with translational bench-to-patient studies and large-scale clinical trials.
We are currently the largest pharmacological research institute in the UK University sector, and one of the largest in Europe.
The Centre employs 530 clinicians and scientists from 45 countries.
In developing your knowledge and skills in genomics, the course will prepare you for work or PhD study in:
NHS professionals can apply for places sponsored by Health Education England (HEE).
Participants eligible for sponsorship by Higher Education England are expected to be employed in a recognised NHS training environment / laboratory.
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the William Harvey Research Institute falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/genomic-medicine-hee-funded-online-msc:
Take this popular online programme to be a part of the genomic revolution - make your own discoveries, take part in cutting-edge research and open new avenues in drug discovery and patient care.
This flexible part-time MSc Programme in Genomic Medicine is developed in collaboration with University College London, Public Health England and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Modules will be assessed through tutorial work (including paper presentations), submitted assignments, practical reports and examinations.
You'll have the opportunity to focus on a piece of original research – this may be prospective and involve basic science or clinical skills and techniques, or it may focus on a detailed review of an area within the curriculum.
You will experience a variety of teaching and learning methods including online lectures and seminars, guided reading exercises, and various activities incorporating individual and group work which will help you to consolidate your learning.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/genomic-medicine-hee-funded-online-pgcert:
Part of: Biological and Biomedical Sciences
This programme in Genomic Medicine is developed in collaboration with University College London, Public Health England and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
To obtain a PGCert 4 15 credit module have to be completed (60 credits in total) with the modules WHR7201, WHR7202, WHR7203 and WHR7206.
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in any subject

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/genomic-medicine-hee-funded-pgcert:
Modules will be assessed through submitted assignments, practical reports and examinations.
September 2025 | 6 months
January 2026 | 5 months
A 2.2 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject.
Please note the deadline for overseas applicants to apply for this course , January 2023 entry, will be 5 p.m.
BST on Monday 14 th November .

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/genomic-medicine-hee-funded-pgdip:
A 2.2 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject..

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/molecular-cell-biology-msc:
This multifaceted programme builds the knowledge and skills needed to kick-start your career in biomolecular research or a related discipline.
Teaching is delivered by experts in the Biochemistry Department, the Centre for Molecular Cell Biology and the Centre for Cell Dynamics at the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences.
It will cover research in areas such as chromosome biology, organisation of cells and tissues, bacterial physiology and host-microbe interaction, photosynthesis and plant sciences.
You will receive training in state-of-the art technologies and the latest theory in molecular cell biology, fluorescence imaging, protein production and analysis, structural biology, data processing, and other techniques used by modern biomolecular scientists.
This wide range of techniques, along with the extensive research project, will allow you to build a substantial portfolio of experimental skills and thereby tackle more elaborate research projects with increased confidence.
You will study how to critically appraise published research and carry out a piece of original research.
This course will therefore be a great preparation for a PhD project and for moving into industrial and academic research.
This module will provide an advanced training in techniques in biochemistry.
In addition to lectures from members of staff and seminars from external speakers, there will be computer and practical workshops to teach methods in molecular biology, structural biology, biophysics and synthetic biology.
The module will provide the theoretical and practical skills needed to carry out modern cell biology research.
It will cover a wide range of topics such as critical review of published research, data analysis and interpretation, scientific presentation and writing lab reports as well as hands-on experience in advanced cell biology techniques.
In the early stages of the MSc Molecular Cell Biology the student will undertake a literature review surrounding the research project they are to undertake.
The module involves the production of a written report containing the following elements:
(i) A  title of the student's future dissertation in a relevant area of research within Molecular Cell Biology.
(ii) A description of the general background to the relevant research field.
(iii) A comprehensive literature review of the specific research topic.
(iv) A very brief research proposal outlining the aims, objectives and methodology of their research project.
A short formal talk will be presented to a specialist audience summarising their literature review and can include a "Research Pitch".
This compulsory 15 credit module will involve regular journal clubs to learn how to analyse and interpret published research as well as one-to-one meetings with the project supervisor(s) while preparing the written report and oral presentation.
An experimental investigation involving laboratory work and/or computational work in some aspect of Molecular Cell Biology.
The student will be embedded within the research community of SBBS.
The student will attend research seminars and research group meetings and typically spend a proportion of each day (from January until August) in the laboratory doing research.
There will be a series of short written and spoken reports incl Poster Presentation, Research Talk (oral presentation), Research Dissertation.
The dissertation will be 10,000 words, which includes a review of relevant literature, data presentation, analysis and discussion.
Modules will be assessed through a mixture of essays, MCQs and SAQs, posters, statistics assignments, lab reports, science communication pieces, a literature review and dissertation for the research project.
You will conduct a 6-month individual research project and a literature review.
The project will be undertaken within one of the research labs in the Biochemistry Department, the Centre for Molecular Cell Biology, or the Centre for Cell Dynamics at the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences.
Students will be fully integrated into their supervisor’s research group, and receive additional feedback and guidance from skilled technicians, PhD students and Postdocs.
This course has been developed and is taught by experts in the field of Molecular Cell Biology.
You will attend a series of lectures, seminars, tutorials, and workshops, with a mixture of individual and group-based exercises, group discussions, problem solving learning and hands-on training in cutting-edge techniques.
To help you along your journey, you are also expected to complete further hours of independent study by reading designated material, producing written assignments, and completing projects.
You will be assigned an Academic Adviser who will guide and support you throughout the course, as well as a Primary Project Supervisor during your research project.
Much of your learning will take place as part of your contribution to a research team.
Students are strongly encouraged to attend the School’s research seminars and Protein & Gene Club in which early career researchers and distinguished scientists present their latest findings.
The Programme Director for MSc Molecular Cell Biology
You will study at the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences at the QMUL campus in Mile End (G.E.
Fogg Building) or Whitechapel (Blizard Institute) in East London.
The central location offers easy transport links to all areas of the capital, and you can take advantage of all the capital has to offer, including access to our partner libraries across the city.
This MSc programme provides comprehensive preparation for students wishing to progress onto a PhD, to work in research laboratories in academia, the clinical and industrial sector.
Molecular Cell Biology is one of the most employable subjects in biosciences.
The range of jobs available to graduate students is large and varied.
Major employers include biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, medical research institutes, as well as many opportunities in hospital and medical support services.
Other careers where an MSc in Molecular Cell Biology would be useful include teaching roles, regulatory affairs officers, and science writing.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, Biochemistry, Biology, Biomedical Sciences, or other relevant disciplines.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/natural-capital-and-sustainability-msc:
Part of: Biological and Biomedical Sciences , Business and Management and Geography and Environmental Science
Combine expertise in environmental science, business, and ecology through this innovative interdisciplinary master’s degree.
Designed to address the urgent global need for professionals capable of implementing nature-based solutions, reaching net zero, and enhancing resilience, the MSc Natural Capital and Sustainability provides you with scientific, financial, and policy knowledge to lead meaningful environmental change.
Based in London, a global centre for environmental research, green finance, and sustainability innovation, you’ll have access to top-tier events, networks, and organisations influencing our planet's future.
You will explore how natural systems can be valued, restored, and managed to support both ecological integrity and sustainable investment.
Core modules cover key themes such as natural capital and ecosystem services, environmental restoration and rewilding, biodiversity loss, sustainable finance, and environmental values.
You will gain an advanced understanding of how scientific, economic, and ethical perspectives intersect in the design and delivery of sustainability solutions.
You will also develop practical skills in data acquisition and environmental analysis using a range of field, laboratory, and geospatial analysis methods, with the opportunity to apply these in your research.
A major component of the programme is the individual research project, where you have the option to work with an external sustainability organisation and/or on ongoing research projects led by the teaching team.
This project allows you to apply your learning to real-world challenges, supported by expert supervision and potentially opening doors to future employment or further research.
Non-residential fieldwork within and around London (tube/ train fares) will incur modest travel costs that you will need to cover.
Other transport costs (e.g., coach) are included in the fee.
Your independent research project can include fieldwork conducted in the UK or overseas.
There is a limited amount of financial support available for research costs from the Water Conservation Trust.
Applications for dissertation funding support are submitted with a short research proposal and considered by the Programme Director, and you would be responsible for the costs associated with this.
Enrolment in the elective module BIO796P would involve an additional cost to you for the Borneo field trip (approximately £2000 in 2025-26).
For full module information, please see the QMUL Module Directory.
Teaching comprises a mixture of formal lectures, field trips, laboratory and computer practicals, small group seminars, workshops, and one-to-one supervision meetings.
If you choose to study part-time, the number of modules you take is reduced per semester.
The full number of modules you need to complete the programme will be spread over two academic years.
In the 2024 Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES), 100% of our students agreed staff were good at explaining things and enthusiastic about what they were teaching.
93% of students agreed their research skills had developed during their course and 87% felt better prepared for a future career as a result of their course.
Find out more about the School of Geography’s inclusive approach to learning, co-created with our diverse student body, enhanced by our world-leading research.
Isadora’s research centres on the political economy of sustainable development.
She primarily focuses on natural resource governance and urban infrastructure provision in emerging markets, particularly in Latin America.
Professor Harvey’s research addresses key research challenges in biogeomorphology to underpin sustainable environmental management and restoration.
She has built strong links with organisations in the environment and water sector, including  Environment Agency, National Trust and Thames21.
Professor Spencer is an environmental geochemist working with geomorphologists, hydrologists and ecologists to provide fundamental science to underpin management of fine sediment in estuaries and lowland rivers.
She provides expert advice on sediment contamination to many environmental agencies.
Professor Mark Trimmer’s research focuses on understanding the biogeochemical cycling of carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus, in diverse environments from chalk streams to the deep oceans.
Professor Trimmer’s research has revealed novel short-circuits in the nitrogen cycle, and has also shown how climate warming can alter cycling dynamics to increase greenhouse gas emissions.
BSc Hons (Sheff) PhD (Soton)
Professor Wharton's research adopts an inter-disciplinary approach to study river forms and processes that can inform sensitive and sustainable management.
Her expertise is in geomorphology and hydrology and involves work with ecologists and environmental engineers to study: how plants, water, and sediments interact in rivers; the characteristics of fine sediments in rivers, their dynamics, and environmental impacts; and the benefits of river restoration.
Find out more about our Laboratories
Geospatial analysis, remote sensing and environmental modelling software and computing facilities
Analysis of environmental samples including water and sediment chemistry
River Laboratory incorporating sediment transport demonstration channel, river simulator and digital camera equipment and software to capture river morphology in 3D
Use dedicated Masters study and computing spaces within the School of Geography
Access an unparalleled range of learning resources, special collections, and world-leading libraries within QMUL and the University of London.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
Our location in the heart of London’s East End offers a rich cultural and natural environment.
Queen Mary has invested £105m in new facilities in recent years to offer our students an exceptional learning environment.
The campus is 15 minutes by tube from central London, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, such as Senate House.
Geography has been taught at Queen Mary since 1894, making us one of the longest-established schools of geography in the UK.
Today, we are one of the leading centres for Geography, Environmental Science and Global Development scholarship in the world.
We were positioned 7th overall for the quality of our research in the latest UK nation-wide research rankings and 92% of our research was assessed as internationally excellent or world-leading (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
The latest QS World University Rankings by Subject (2023) places us in the top 100 geography schools in the world.
Set in the heart of one of London’s most vibrant and diverse areas, the School is ideally placed for studying the capital’s people, places, cultures and environment, as well as being a global hub for geographical expertise.
We have a culturally diverse and inclusive postgraduate community, with students drawn from 35 countries around the world in 2022.
We pride ourselves on our close research and teaching links with external partners including the Environment Agency, the Museum of the Home, the British Museum, Citizens UK and Natural England.
Graduates will be well-prepared for a range of impactful careers in the rapidly growing sustainability sector.
The course equips students with interdisciplinary expertise that is highly valued across public, private, and third-sector organisations working at the intersection of environment, finance, and policy.
Potential career paths include the following roles:
You may work with environmental consultancies, government agencies, conservation NGOs, international development organisations, or businesses integrating sustainability into their operations.
The strong emphasis on real-world application, networking with industry professionals, and experience gained through research collaborations also provides an excellent foundation for those wishing to pursue PhD research or academic careers in sustainability and environmental science.
Discover what our recent students have done after their course to help you to maximise your potential and achieve your ambitions.
Queen Mary Careers and Enterprise offers a range of tailored support and resources for current students and recent graduates, from refining your CV and exploring your options to finding part-time roles, work experience, and graduate opportunities.
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the School of Geography falls within the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/neuroscience-msc:
From the bench to the bedside — help to transfer neuroscience and pharmacological discoveries into clinical use.
Study topics from the principles of drug design and development to the clinical aspects of the management of major neurological diseases.
The clinical component is unique to this course and ties together the scientific, clinical and personal aspects of neurological disease.
An important aspect of the research on neurological disease is the clinical translation aspect, which is a major part of our MSc programme.
Translational medicine is the process of applying research findings from basic science to clinical practice, with the goal of improving patient outcomes.
You will study topics such as the principles of drug design and development, in particular the key steps involved in the drug discovery and development process, and learn about clinical trial design and methodology.
You will also critically discuss the challenges associated with developing better therapies in various diseases and gain insight into the regulatory environment.
Furthermore, you will be able to gain state of the art expertise in areas such as brain tumours, pain, neurodegenerative diseases and neuroinflammation, neurotrauma and stem cells therapeutics, and this will be delivered through specialised interactive sessions with world leading experts in the field.
What sets our Neuroscience programme apart is our unique emphasis on the present clinical challenges in neurological disease.
This programme ties together the scientific, clinical, and patient care aspects of neurological disease in a unique way, which makes our course quite different from other courses.
You will also have the opportunity to become actively involved in neuroscience research during your final project and dissertation.
You will have the opportunity to work alongside pioneering research groups and gain first-hand experience on clinical or bench-based research projects.
With a strong focus on the clinical perspective, this course will give you advanced knowledge on a path to innovative treatments for patients suffering from neurological disorders.
Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry is comprised of two renowned and prestigious teaching hospitals: St Bartholomew’s and The Royal London.
Both continue to make an outstanding contribution to modern medicine.
Students* gave this course a 100% overall satisfaction rating .
* Students who completed the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
This module combines lecture-based teaching with practicals and workshops which provides you with a foundation in research methodology, as well as skills in thinking, writing and oral communication.
You will study topics ranging from the formulation of hypotheses based on critical analysis and evaluation of scientific literature to experimental design and core laboratory methodologies used in biomedical research.
We will also will discuss safety and ethical concerns relating to research, as well as professional conduct and careers in regenerative medicine.
Throughout the module, you will develop practical skills including statistical analysis, dissemination of information through oral and written presentation, and public engagement.
In this module you will be given an overview of the key components of the translational medicine processes, from the definition of drug targets to clinical trials.
You will study various types of targets for treatment in neurology and psychiatry, and will discuss how to model disease experimentally.
You will analyse the role of imaging techniques and that of biomarkers in modern medicine.
You will have detailed discussions about aspects of drug absorption and bioavailability, and aspects of safety and toxicity studies required before the first exploratory clinical studies.
You will also be taught about drug regulatory aspects and intellectual property aspects which are part of the process of therapeutic innovation.
In the research project, you will apply the bench-to-the clinic process through direct experience of a specific topic which has a translational medicine value.
You will analyse the background literature, undertake hands-on practical work (in the laboratory or in the clinic) leading to original data, and complete the whole process by writing a dissertation.
You will give an oral presentation of the data you have obtained in your project, and discuss it during a viva with the examiners.
You will develop in depth knowledge of the role of tissue-specific stem cells during tissue homeostasis and wound-healing, as well as current and future applications in regenerative medicine.
The module will cover stem cells present in tissues derived from each of the three primary germ cell layer (ectoderm, endoderm & mesoderm).
You will also examine cutting-edge experimental techniques that are used to evaluate adult stem cells by interpreting data from primary research papers.
Throughout the module you will develop a variety of skills including critical analysis of scientific literature, interpretation of experimental design, evaluation of statistical analysis, and design of presentations.
Your transferrable skills in critical thinking, organisation, writing, and oral communication will also be enhanced.
This module is an extensive study of the cellular and molecular biology substrates of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and the dementias, including Alzheimer's disease.
You will be given insight into the role of biomarkers for patient stratification and for prognosis of the evolution of the disease.
You will critically discuss clinical trials in neurodegenerative disease.
This module will introduce you to the different types of pluripotent stem cells which are used for research and in therapeutics.
The emphasis will be on induced pluripotent stem cells, where the focus will be on generation, verification, and applications of these cells.
Additionally, you will learn about techniques that are used for genome engineering, which will be integrated in applications of induced pluripotent stem cells.
You will study a comprehensive analysis of headache and migraine and their pathophysiology, and will also discuss other types of chronic pain, including visceral pain.
You will learn about the neurobiology of epilepsy and the latest classification of epilepsy syndromes.
You will discuss in detail new therapeutic ideas in the management of chronic pain and epilepsy conditions.
In this module you will be taught all the key aspects of specific translational medicine challenges in neurotrauma (including traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury) and stroke.
You will discuss in detail the pathophysiology of acquired injury in the central nervous system and how the secondary injury mechanisms can become a target for treatment.
You will discuss neuroprotection and neurorepair strategies and will become acquainted with new emerging concepts in clinical trials in neurotrauma and stroke.
In this module you will be given an overview of the specific translational medicine challenges in neuroinflammatory diseases and autoimmune disease.
You will study new treatment directions in multiple sclerosis, which are a consequence of major advances in our understanding of this condition.
You will acquire detailed knowledge of the cellular and molecular basis underlying the development of brain tumours.
You will be given an overview of the current, specific translational medicine challenges in neurooncology.
You will be assessed using a combination of final written examinations and a series of in-course assessments.
The in-course assessments consist of literature reviews, oral presentations, case analyses and clinical trial protocol discussions.
You will spend nine weeks on the Research Project in the lab, which is then assessed based on a 12,000-word dissertation.
Past students have undertaken important and ground-breaking research on this programme.
Recent dissertation topics include:
The MSc programme provided me with strong knowledge of drug discovery and development, as well as the current therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative diseases.
Undertaking the MSc research project equipped me with independent laboratory skills and encouraged me to pursue a PhD in neuroscience.
Aarushi Vaidya, Neuroscience and Translational Medicine MSc 2021 graduate, now a Neuroscience PhD researcher at the University of East Anglia
We have a large number of specialists teaching on the course, and many are world leaders in their fields.
These include academics from other institutions, clinicians, and specialists from the pharmaceutical industry.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods on the MSc programme, including: seminars, laboratory practice sessions, self-directed learning, one-to-one tutorials, case presentations, and reading lists of books and journal papers.
As an MSc student, you will be expected to play an active part in your own acquisition of skills and knowledge.
You will also have a personal mentor who will guide you in both academic and pastoral matters.
You will also be supported by your programme administrators who are responsible for the day-to-day organisation and management of the programme and are on-hand to facilitate a positive learning environment and support your engagement during your studies.
The Blizard Institute's team of dedicated education administrators recently received an Education Excellence Award for their work.
Lic Sci, M es Sci, Doct en Sci (Paris)
Dr Michael-Titus is a Fellow of the British Pharmacological Society and is on the Board of Directors of the International Society for Studies on Fatty Acids and Lipids.
Much of her present research is focused on neuroprotective agents in acute spinal cord injury and spinal cord neurodegeneration.
Dr Malaspina leads a multidisciplinary research group working on biomarkers discovery and on their clinical pre-validation.
In the last seven years, he has established a large bio-banking project for neurodegenerative disorders.
Professor Baker is an internationally recognised neuroimmunologist and has identified novel treatment strategies for experimental neuroimmunological conditions.
He has filed a number of patents and is a founder of a University spin-out company, developing a compound towards Phase I studies in humans.
BSc, BSc(Hons), D.Phil.
Professor Sheer's research is currently focused on the molecular pathology of brain tumours and protein aggregation in neurodegeneration.
She has particular expertise in higher order chromatin architecture, nuclear organisation, cell and molecular biology, cancer genetics and epigenetics, and molecular pathology of paediatric brain tumours.
BSc, PhD, DSc, FBPhS, FRSB
Professor Sanger is a Fellow of the British Pharmacology Society.
He undertook drug discovery and gastrointestinal research at GlaxoSmithKline.
He has experience in all phases of drug discovery, placing seven novel compounds into development, including granisetron (now an anti-emetic drug).
MBBCh, PhD, FCP (Neurol., SA), FRCP, FRCPath
Professor Giovannoni’s clinical interests are multiple sclerosis and other inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system.
He is particularly interested in clinical issues related to optimising MS disease modifying therapies.
He teaches clinical neurology and neuro-immunology.
DVM, PhD, FHEA, MRCVS
Dr Lopez-Tremoleda is the university veterinarian providing advice on animal health and care for the animals used in research procedures and promoting the implementation of the 3Rs principles and safeguarding the welfare of the animals.
He manages the Centre for Trauma Science's Models Core Unit, developing, validating and standardising experimental models for effective trauma translation.
His research brings together complex models of trauma, haemorrhage, shock, coagulopathy and central nervous injury to facilitate the full translation of experimental work into clinical practice.
MB BS, PhD, FRCP
Dr Schmierer’s clinical and research activities have focused on multiple sclerosis.
His clinical academic work includes exploring the pathological substrate of disease deterioration in people with MS using MRI and quantitative histology; and studies into the epidemiology and cause(s) of MS.
PhD, FHEA
Dr Pallier's research is multidisciplinary and translational, and uses a wide array of in vitro and in vivo techniques.
It focuses on the characterisation and development of novel therapeutic approaches to protect and repair the brain or the spinal cord after trauma, delay ageing, or prevent the occurrence of neurodegenerative conditions.
He is a Fellow of The Higher Education Academy.
Dr Yip's research group focuses on neuroregeneration, neuroplasticity, neuroprotection, neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in neuroinjury.
He has a substantially wide in vitro and in vivo technical knowledge and abilities, which enabled him to publish research articles in the field of pain, motor neurone disease, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury and newborns with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.
He is the module lead for 'ICMM929 – Neurodegenerative Diseases' on the MSc Regenerative Medicine programme.
PhD (Manchester), FRCP
Professor Aziz is Director of the Wingate Institute of Neurogastroenterology at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry.
His research is aimed at understanding the neurophysiological basis of human brain-gut communication.
MB, MSc, PhD
Dr Bo’s main research direction is on neural repair after spinal cord injury.
He is an Honorary Professor of the Third Military Medical University, China and a member of the Genomic Modification Committee of Queen Mary University of London
Many of our graduates go on to prestigious positions within the NHS (e.g.
Airedale General Hospital, St George's Hospital, University College Hospital, University Hospital of Burton and Derby), the Oxford Vaccine Group, and other non-medical employment.
Many are working in positions such as Doctor, Laboratory Assistant, Clinical Trials Data Manager, Trial Coordinator, Pharmacy Assistant Technical Officer, Research Scientists in academia or industry, Independent Scientific Investigators, Medical and Science writers, and Marketing and Communications roles.
Others have returned to their clinical work or study, as PhD students or MBBS students at institutions such as Queen Mary or the University of Sunderland.
Source: Graduate Outcomes Surveys 2019/20 and 2020/21
This MSc was an excellent degree, providing me with a thorough theoretical and practical grounding in the various exciting aspects of neuroscience research.
The opportunity to complete the research project in the final term allows you to immerse yourself within one of the cutting-edge research groups at the Institute, and develop productive, long-term, collaborative relationships.
The experience, mentoring and research output I gained helped me enormously in securing a clinical academic job...
Ashvin Kuri, MSc Neuroscience and Translational Medicine (intercalating MBBS student) graduate
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in Biological Sciences, Neuroscience, Pharmacology, Physiology, Biochemistry, Biomedical Science, Medicine, Pharmacy or a related discipline.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/neuroscience-pgcert:
An important aspect of the research on neurological disease is the clinical translation aspect, which is a major part of our programme.
The programme provided me with strong knowledge of drug discovery and development, as well as the current therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative diseases.
As a postgraduate student, you will be expected to play an active part in your own acquisition of skills and knowledge.
This was an excellent degree, providing me with a thorough theoretical and practical grounding in the various exciting aspects of neuroscience research.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/neuroscience-pgdip:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods on the programme, including: seminars, laboratory practice sessions, self-directed learning, one-to-one tutorials, case presentations, and reading lists of books and journal papers.
As an postgraduate student, you will be expected to play an active part in your own acquisition of skills and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/oral-biology-msc:
Part of: Dentistry and Biological and Biomedical Sciences
This MSc focuses on the latest scientific developments in oral biology and health, while also covering basic science in a clinical context, giving you a comprehensive yet specialised biomedical skillset.
You’ll discover the latest advances in therapeutic dentistry, nano-dentistry and dental materials.
This MSc is also available for intercalating BDS Dentistry students.
Find out more about intercalating at Queen Mary.
This MSc will give you a thorough grounding in oral biology, including hands-on clinical explanations of the major scientific developments in both preventative medical techniques and commercial product research.
You’ll explore the latest developments in therapeutic dentistry: for example, models for the oral delivery of drugs.
You’ll also learn about advances in nano-dentistry and dental materials.
Over the duration of the course, you’ll gain a sound understanding of dental anatomy, oral physiology and dental biophysics, as well as basic biochemistry in relation to dentistry.
You’ll also study the chemistry of bone and tooth biominerals and components, the etiology of dental caries and erosion, saliva biochemistry, oral microbiology, dental materials science, and modern 2D and 3D x-ray imaging.
In addition to these module lectures, there will also be lectures from practising clinicians on current issues in modern clinical dentistry, ensuring you’re familiar with the very latest discoveries, models and research.
You’ll be working at the forefront of innovation in this field and encouraged to research areas that could have real-life patient benefit.
For example, you could research drugs that have minimal side-effects so reducing the prevalence of xeristomia (dry mouth), a frequent side-effect of dental medication.
Please note that for intercalating BDS students, Queen Mary students must apply by 1 February and complete an intercalated application in addition to the MSc application.
Following the February deadline for iBSc applications external students are free to continue to apply for MSc degrees via the Postgraduate Taught Course online application process.
Find out more about applying for an intercalated degree.
The module will initially provide students with a introduction to research, including qualitative and quantitative paradigms, methodology, validity and reliability and support them to choose their research projects which are in the areas of their discipline.
This is a core module delivered in the Master of Sciences (MSc) in Dental Technology, Oral Biology and Dental Materials (the latter jointly accommodated by the Institute of Dentistry, Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, and The School of Engineering and Materials Science).
It is designed to enable students to gain a greater and more in depth understanding of the basic sciences knowledge that underpins the clinical uses of dental materials.
Topics covered include chemical, mechanical, surface properties and other physical property tests used for dental biomaterials, as well as basic ceramic science, basic polymer science and basic metallurgy.
Water absorption and the biocompatibility of dental materials are also covered in detail.
This module is divided into two components:  research process (including methods and ethics) and basic statistics.
Students will learn about the research stages including conducting literature searches, setting research questions, selecting study designs and research methods, drafting research protocols and seeking ethical approval delivered in the form of lectures and practical seminars.
The basic statistics component will introduce students to medical statistics and common statistical tests delivered in lectures.
Anti-microbial peptides.
Structure and function of oral mucosa.
Bone pathologies.
Cell biology of bone.
Cytoskeleton.
Desmosomes and cell attachment.
Introduction to stem cells.
Oral defence mechanisms.
Carcinogenesis.
Acquisition and metabolism of oral flora.
Oral commensal and opportunistic pathogens.
Dental plaque.
Disease of the salivary gland.
Microbiology and periodontal disease.
The mouth as a microbial habitat.
Oral infections.
Overview of infectious agents.
Pathology of pre cancer.
Overview of virulence.
Mechanisms and underlying principles and of the diseases of dental hard tissue loss, including calcium phosphate chemistry, chemical interaction with acids, and  protective role of salivary proteins

How an understanding of these processes can contribute to the treatment, restoration, and ultimately prevention of these diseases.
The underlying biochemical and physicochemical mechanisms of clinical dental prevention methods 

How protective mechanisms against hard dental tissues diseases exist in the oral environment and how these can be used to prevent the disease.
The progress of hard dental tissue diseases and learn about existing and novel detection methods.
How novel biomaterials are developed mimicking oral environment.
Mechanisms and underlying principles of biomineralisation with particular emphasis on hard tissues relevant to the oral environment such as enamel, dentine and bone formation.
Also, how an understanding of these processes can lead to the development of synthetic biomaterials and biomimetic products with applications in Oral Biology.
This module is an academic module focussing primarily on the introduction to the basic and clinical sciences of the dental hard and soft tissues and the biochemical processes processes relevant of Oral Biology.
It will be conducted in the form of 12 seminars of 3 hour duration, and 6 research seminars.
The major topics include:
Tooth development and mechanisms driving formation
Structure of enamel
Structure of dentine
Structure of bone
Structure of the periodontal ligament
Dental anomalies
You will write a dissertation of 10,000-words, based on your research project.
Your research project will be conducted under close supervision during the summer term and is evaluated by thesis, presentation and viva examination.
You’ll be taught through a combination of expert lectures, small group seminars, clinical sessions, self-directed learning, and reading.
Your individual study time could be spent preparing for, or following up on, formal study sessions, reading, producing written work, completing projects and revising for examinations.
The direction of your individual study will be guided by the formal study sessions you attend, along with your reading lists and assignments.
BSc PhD MInstP CPhys
Professor Anderson’s research interests include X-ray microscopy, enamel and hydroxyapatite chemistry, and the bio-physical chemical effects of salivary proteins in dental hard tissue protection.
He is an associate editor of Caries Research.
“It was the first time this course was being offered by QMUL.
There were very few subject experts when I took the course in 2010.”
“Indisputably, I enjoyed the research component the most.
Apart from the research, I particularly liked the “Minimally Invasive Dentistry” module which involved content related to the preservation of the tooth structure.”
“I moved to London to pursue my post-graduation.
While still being in London, I was offered a job from one of the most prestigious institutes of KSA i.e.
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University (IAU, Formerly University of Dammam).
In 2012, I joined IAU and I am now working as an Assistant Professor in the Division of Oral Biology, College of Dentistry, IAU.”
“I always will owe my career growth to Barts especially related to my research performance.
When I exited QMUL, I had no research publications but after nine years, I have published more than 60 research papers (with 30+ total impact factor) and book chapters that have acquired over 600+ citations.
I won the Best Oral Presentation Award in the 2012 IADSR Conference, Karachi, Pakistan and IAU, College of Dentistry’s competitive “Best Researcher Award” in 2017.”
Dr Imran Farooq, MSc Oral Biology 2011
Experience World-Class Facilities
Watch the video below to see our facilities!
Your postgraduate learning experience is enhanced by our fantastic location in Whitechapel, in east London.
Not only are we in one of the capital’s most vibrant areas to live and work but we also serve a diverse local community, with 92 different languages spoken by the borough’s 300,000 residents.
You will develop your clinical skills and knowledge while caring for this community.
Moreover, the Institute offers you many exciting opportunities to develop an understanding of health and the treatment of disease in a global and international context.
If you study with us, you will join a dynamic, successful dental school with a first-class reputation: Queen Mary has consistently been ranked in the top 20 in the World for dentistry in the QS World University Rankings by Subject and we were ranked joint first in the country for research environment for dentistry in the most recent national assessment (REF 2021).
The Institute of Dentistry is a special place to undertake your postgraduate studies.
We bring together a number of world-leading researchers in basic and clinical sciences who supervise research students in the fields of oral medicine, oral pathology, oral microbiology, oral epidemiology, oncology, dental biomaterials, dental biophysics, dental public health, dental education, periodontology, orthodontics, paediatric, prosthetic and conservative dentistry.
The Institute is based in Whitechapel and offers cutting-edge technology, a superb education and first-class research facilities.
The Institute of Dentistry is part of Queen Mary’s Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry.
Queen Mary is part of the University of London and a member of the Russell Group.
Oral biology is a growing area of commercial research within the pharmacological industry, making graduates of this programme attractive to employers.
This MSc will also give you the research skills and experience necessary to pursue further academic research at PhD level.
My time and study at Barts improved me not only from a scholarly point of view, but also helped me to utilise my experiences for the betterment of my students both here in Pakistan and abroad...
I  found Barts' facilities, student support and London’s diverse cultural environment made adjusting as an international student very easy.
27 May 2020
Why did you study a Masters in Oral Biology at Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry?
What sparked your interest in this specific degree?
It was a passion of mine to pursue a speciality in Oral biology since my undergraduate studies.
I was working as a lecturer before applying for this programme.
Meanwhile, I was actively looking for an opportunity to start my specialisation .
Queen Mary was among the very first universities that offered this specialty in the United Kingdom.
Course content, the research component, the experience of a metropolitan city, and alumni feedback attracted me to opt for this course.
What aspects of your degree did you find most enjoyable?
What modules did you like learning about and was there anything that surprised you in your studies?
All of the courses were very well structured and I liked all of my modules and tutors.
My favourite modules were Introduction to Oral biology and Minimally Invasive Dentistry.
When I started my research project I found the research facilities and quality of supervision outstanding - I had never come across such standards before.
The research projects that were carried out comprises of highly relevant and emerging topics – it was a joy to be exposed to such projects.
Why did you choose to study at Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry in particular?
I choose Barts and London School of Medicine and Dentistry because of the central location of the University.
Additionally, the fact that researchers at Barts are known for their research and innovation influenced by decision.
Overall, the facilities, student support and London’s diverse cultural environment make the international student adjustment easy – these factors were the main reason behind my choice.
Can you describe your career path up to date and touch on your current role?
After graduation I got my first job as a senior lecturer in a Dental School in Pakistan.
I am currently working as an Assistant Professor at one of the leading State owned Medical University of Pakistan.
I am also managing an e-learning initiative called ‘Dental Education Hub’.
What was so special about your time at Queen Mary University of London's Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry ?
There were so many opportunities to interact with students from other faculties as I was also an active participant in societies such as Queen Mary Islamic society and community events.
During my study and life at Barts I had the chance to meet some amazing people and I am still in touch with fellow alumni and friends through social media and professional networking websites such as Facebook and LinkedIn.
Dr Rizwan Ullah
MSc Oral Biology Alumni
Home: £500 Overseas: £2000 Information about deposits
A 2:2 or above at undergraduate level in a relevant subject such as Medicine, Dentistry, Chemistry or Biology.
For intercalating BDS Dentistry students:
The English Language requirements for entry to postgraduate taught and research programmes in the Institute of Dentistry fall within either English band 4 or English band 5.
This programme requires the following English band:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/subjects/biological-sciences.html:
The School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences at QMUL is one of the UK’s elite research centres, according to the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF), the UK-wide assessment of university research.
According to the REF 2014, 82% of our biology research is either world-leading or internationally excellent .
Our postgraduate research training will give you an extensive grounding in research design, methods, implementation and analysis.
We recruit around 30 PhD students every year.
Our Biological Sciences PhD programme offers students the opportunity to conduct research within a wide range of areas.
We have an online list of available PhD projects .
Applicants are also encouraged to contact prospective supervisors to discuss potential PhD opportunities within their area of expertise.
Information on our research areas can be found on the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences research pages.
We advertise a number of funded PhD projects throughout the year.
We are also a member of and accept students onto our PhD programme in Biological Sciences via the London NERC and BBSRC LIDo Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs).
Further information on PhD projects and funding is available on the School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences webpage.
Requirements for each PhD project vary but generally, we are looking for applicants who hold, or expect to receive:
The School of Biological and Behavioral Sciences also offer PhD programmes in:
Please visit the School of Biological and Behavioral Sciences website for information on the application process.
For further advice, please contact: Vicky Man PGR Programmes Officer Email: sbbs-pgadmissions@qmul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/hub/biomedical-sciences-hub:
Join us on Instagram

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/accountancy:
Get your accounting career off to a flying start with Queen Mary, PwC and ICAEW.
This degree was designed with, and is professionally accredited by, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
Successful graduates of this degree will have completed 12 of the 15 modules of the ICAEW Associate Chartered Accountant (ACA) qualification.
The BSc Accountancy (Flying Start) programme combines academic study, integrated professional work placements at PwC, and progress towards the ICAEW Chartered Accountant qualification.
Throughout your journey, you’ll be supported by a team of dedicated staff from both the School and PwC, who will help you develop the skills you need to succeed.
You'll receive approximately two hours of weekly contact time per module, consisting of lectures and smaller group seminars.
Read Gil's story of a day in the life is like of a first year student on BSc Accountancy (Flying Start) .
The university offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
As you will be working on real client work during your placements, you will also receive technical training from PwC.
For any applicants requiring a Student Route visa to study with us, there may be additional visa permission considerations due to the nature of this programme.
Please get in touch at cas-admissions@qmul.ac.uk for more information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) offer a financial bursary for BSc Accountancy students, subject to eligibility criteria.
Find out more about the PwC Flying Start Financial Bursary and other scholarships, on our other funding options .
The vast majority of finalists on Flying Start programmes with PwC have received a job offer at the company after graduation, often becoming fully-qualified ICAEW Chartered Accountants just over a year after graduation.
Graduates of Flying Start programmes have also moved into non-accounting roles at PwC.
There is no obligation (on the part of the student or PwC) to progress to a role at PwC following completion of the course.
PwC will provide each student with a career coach, who will guide the student through PwC’s annual performance management process.
Prior to joining PwC for their first work placement, students will be allocated a named 'buddy' who will help induct them into the firm.
A wealth of careers support is also available through both Queen Mary and the School of Business and Management.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/actuarial-science:
Semester A Four compulsory modules:
Semester B Four compulsory modules:
Year-long
One compulsory module:
Year-long One compulsory module:
Semester A Two compulsory modules:
Semester B Choose four modules from:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/business-management:
Read why Kashish moved from India to London to study BSc Business Management at Queen Mary.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/business-with-law:
Make your mark on the business world by combining management skills with legal knowledge.
See yourself working in management?
But also have an interest in law?
Join us to explore how law functions in the modern business world.
These two areas are constantly evolving meaning it ’ s always a great combination of subjects to study.
London is a business hub and a centre for legal expertise and innovation.
We also partner with multinational companies to bring you the latest industry insights.
In the past, we ’ ve worked with Microsoft, PwC and Facebook.
You ’ ll study modules from the School of Business and Management and the School of Law.
We ’ ve designed the course to include cutting-edge business topics like managing diversity, social network analysis and social responsibility.
At the same time, you ’ ll look at legal areas like intellectual property and contract law.
We ’ re making a real difference to society, nationally and globally.
Our recent research has increased gender and ethnic diversity on UK corporate boards.
Many of our academics have worked in industry prior to academia too, so they ’ ll share their experience with you.
Compliance, corporate governance, and business development are just a few areas where you r legal knowledge will be invaluable.
You ’ ll leave Queen Mary ready to make an impact in today ’ s ever-changing business landscape.
You must choose up to four law modules and up to four business modules from the below lists.
Graduates of this programme will be able to pursue a wide range of careers in the world of business.
You will be particularly well-suited to areas that require legal knowledge, including human resource management, compliance, corporate governance and business development.
Business with Law BSc alumni are now working in roles such as:
You would also be well-placed to pursue further legal studies, such as a law conversion course, if desired.
In previous years, this has included business-specific workshops, industry networking events and field trips to leading companies.
Our academics are some of the UK’s top legal minds and have expertise advising high profile international organisations such as the United Nations, the World Bank and foreign governments.
The School is home to the Legal Advice Centre (LAC), through which our students work alongside solicitors to offer free legal advice to the local community.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/economics-finance-and-management:
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBB including Maths at A-Level.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/french-with-business-management:
Prepare for international business, becoming versed in French language and culture while studying finance and management.
This programme consists of the major element French and the minor element Business Management.
No prior knowledge of French language is required.
The first year will give you a broad overview of French culture, society and history, and you’ll take your French language to a new level.
You’ll also study the fundamentals of economics and management.
In later years, you’ll deepen your knowledge with a choice of modules in French literature, film, art, thought and society.
Teaching of written and spoken French continues all the way through to your final year, combining practical language teaching with modules that explore the language in different contexts.
You’ll also learn about financial management, marketing, strategy and human resources, with business modules making up about one-quarter of your programme.
You’ll spend your third year studying or working in France or a French-speaking country, immersing yourself in its language and society.
Our French-speaking partner institutions are:
You'll receive approximately 10 to 16 hours of weekly contact time, in the form of lectures, seminars and language classes.
You will spend up to five hours per week in language classes – in small groups of no more than 20 for classroom or language lab teaching, and no more than 10 for oral and aural work.
Assessment typically includes a combination of written exams and coursework, final-year dissertations, independent projects and creative journals.
If you’re interested in learning another language, you can sign up for a course at Queen Mary’s Language Centre , where you can choose from Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), German, Japanese, Bengali, Catalan, Italian or Spanish.
Our standard contextual offer: BBC at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BCC at A-Level.
Knowledge of French will give you an advantage in the job market, whether in the UK, in Europe – where French is an official and major working language of the EU – or internationally.
Recent graduates who combined a modern language with business management have been hired by:
The Schools runs regular careers events, including opportunities for current students to meet alumni.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/french-with-business-management:
The School runs regular careers events, including opportunities for current students to meet alumni.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/geography-with-business-management:
Learn what it takes to manage complex social, political and economic change while exploring the rapidly evolving business landscape.
Care about balancing economic growth and promoting environmental sustainability?
Become part of a university community committed to building a more sustainable future, helping businesses preserve profitability while addressing the global climate crisis.
Modules from the School of Business and Management make up a quarter of our programme – you’ll learn about financial management, marketing, strategy and human resources.
Then you’ll spend most of your week in the Department of Geography and Environmental Science learning about issues defining our present, like international development, geopolitics and the changing nature of work.
Many of our modules contain fieldwork in London, the UK and overseas too.
Maybe you’ll head to Spitalfields market to examine urban consumption, study sustainable development in Malta or travel to Boston to meet climate change activists and tech entrepreneurs.
Imagine being taught by leaders who’ve had research included in ground-breaking climate change reports and others who’ve featured on BBC Panorama.
We’ll support you as you develop your own versatile skills portfolio.
That looks like coaching and mentoring through dedicated careers support, alumni networking, and help with finding projects in local charities and internships in local businesses or start-ups.
Your combination of business know-how and geographical expertise will prepare you for a range of careers in the public and private sectors.
From property asset management to responsible investing and banking to risk analysis – where will this course take you?
This programme is accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers).
You can complete your Geography with Business Management degree in three or four years.
If you choose to study abroad, this will take place in Year 3 and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Geography with Business Management BSc with a Year Abroad.
As a student here, you'll benefit from engaging lectures, interactive seminars, and hands-on fieldwork opportunities that enrich your learning journey.
Moreover, you'll become part of a vibrant and inclusive community of scholars, where collaboration, creativity, and critical thinking are encouraged.
The Department offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Find out what our students think about studying geography at Queen Mary.
Many of our Geography with Business Management graduates use their subject knowledge directly, in business analysis, responsible investing, marketing or political risk analysis.
Others take their transferable skills into other careers, from social research to finance.
Geography with Business Management students benefit from dedicated careers support, including lectures and tutorials on career choice, getting work experience and presenting degree skills to an employer at interview.
The School of Business and Management can also help you find part-time projects in local charities and short internships in local businesses and start-ups.
Geography with Business Management - BSc (Hons)
Geography with Business Management with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/geography-with-business-management:
Then you’ll spend most of your week in the School of Geography learning about issues defining our present, like international development, geopolitics and the changing nature of work.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/german-with-business-management:
Prepare for international business, becoming versed in the language and culture of German-speaking nations while studying finance and management.
This programme consists of the major element German and the minor element Business Management.
No prior knowledge of German is required.
The first year provides a broad overview of the culture and history of Germany, Austria and German-speaking Switzerland.
You’ll take German language modules at the appropriate level, from total beginner to native speaker.
In subsequent years, you’ll deepen your knowledge with a choice of modules in German literature, film, international relations and society.
Teaching of written and spoken German continues all the way through to your final year, combining practical language teaching with modules that explore the language in different contexts.
You’ll spend your third year studying or working in a German-speaking country, immersing yourself in its language and society.
The German language modules you take will depend on your entry level.
We offer separate classes for beginner, post-GCSE, post-A-level and native speakers.
You will spend your year abroad in Germany, Austria or German-speaking Switzerland.
If you’re interested in learning another language, you can sign up for a course at Queen Mary’s Language Centre , where you can choose from Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, Japanese, Catalan, Italian or Spanish.
Knowledge of German will give you an advantage on the job market, whether in the UK, in Europe or internationally.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/graduate-diploma-in-humanities-and-social-sciences:
At least a pass in a full first degree that is:
You must have passed all final year modules.
A UK Higher Education Diploma, or the equivalent.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/hispanic-studies-with-business-management:
Prepare for international business, becoming versed in Hispanic languages and culture while studying finance and management.
This programme consists of the major element Hispanic Studies and the minor element Business Management.
No prior knowledge of Spanish is required.
From the regions of Spain to the diverse countries of Latin America, Hispanic Studies covers the history, politics, sport, literature and film of several nations.
As the second most widely spoken language in the world, Spanish is an important tool for intercultural communication.
Teaching of written and spoken Spanish continues all the way through to your final year, combining practical language teaching with modules that explore the language in different contexts.
You may also be able to learn the Catalan language as part of your degree, thereby widening your access to other rich cultures.
You’ll spend your third year studying or working in a Spanish-speaking country, immersing yourself in its language and society.
The Spanish language modules you take will depend on your entry level.
We have partner institutions in Spain (Almería, Barcelona, Madrid, Málaga, Murcia, Oviedo, Seville, Salamanca, Santiago de Compostela, Valencia, and Vigo), Latin America (Universidad de Guadalajara, Mexico) and Colombia (Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá).
You could also split your time abroad between two countries and two different placements.
If you’re interested in learning another language, you can sign up for a course at Queen Mary’s Language Centre , where you can choose from Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German, Italian or Japanese.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC at A-Level.
Spanish is the second-most widely spoken language in the world, with 400 million native speakers across South, Central and North America, as well as Africa and Europe.
Fluency is this major world language is an advantage in the job market, whether in the UK or internationally.
The Schools run regular careers events, including opportunities for current students to meet alumni.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/international-business-analytics:
Think you’d make a great global leader in business?
This is where your story starts as you study in London.
The international business landscape is changing faster than ever before.
You can become the expert firms, governments, and international institutions desperately need to analyse markets and economies and assess trends and developments.
Joining us, you’ll learn to apply the theory to real case studies and make reasoned judgments based on economic analysis.
At the same time, we’ll help you use leading software and techniques for business and economic analysis.
Lead the way in business
Our expert teaching team have extensive experience and specialise in a range of areas from economics to analytics.
Because of their connections, you’ll get the chance to hear from leaders from organisations such as HSBC, PwC, UBS and many others.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have the skills you need to analyse complex business issues, as well as experience of a different cultural setting.
It’s up to you to decide what’s next.
Will you be a consultant with global clients?
A manager motivating international teams?
Or a data scientist converting streams of big data into business intelligence?
The degree in International Business Analytics builds on well-established modules in business studies, with a particular emphasis on international business strategy , data analytics and regional studies.
At the core of the program is a rigorous focus on advanced data analytics, equipping our students with the critical skills to analyse, interpret, and leverage complex data for strategic decision-making.
We have strong partnerships with universities across the globe – from Italy to Singapore and Canada to Australia.
With the support of Queen Mary and your host university, you will live and study in a different country, giving you the chance to travel widely and enhance your career prospects.
This experience will be of great value to those looking to enter the international business landscape, as it will allow you to gain international experience and cross-cultural understanding.
Our inaugural group of students embarked on journeys to renowned universities like Cornell, George Washington University, Bocconi, Stockholm Business School, University of Sydney, University of Toronto, University of California, Nanyang University and others, enriching their academic lives with diverse, world-class educational experiences.
This isn't just an academic year – it is a once-in-a-lifetime experience to expand your horizons and study in some of the world's most dynamic university environments.
"My year abroad at Cornell University was a transformative experience, both academically and personally.
Immersing myself in an environment known for its elite academics and lively campus life pushed me to expand my knowledge in international business, all while connecting with other students from diverse cultural backgrounds.
I also gained access to world-class faculty and state-of-the-art facilities which aided me in developing critical skills for my career.
This experience improved my adaptability to new environments, broadened my global perspective, and provided me with a unique insight into U.S.
Social and business practices.
I wholeheartedly recommend this exchange to any student looking to enhance their academic journey."
Alejandro Garcia-Ruescas Fernandez, BSc International Business Analytics, Exchange programme at Cornell University
"Joining the exchange programme at Bocconi was an unforgettable experience that shaped me both academically and personally.
Working with students from around the world in a competitive environment pushed me to excel and gave me valuable career insights.
Professors and guest lecturers made classes truly engaging, challenging us to think differently.
Living in Milan was a refreshing change from London, especially socially.
I built close bonds with flatmates and classmates, spending evenings over aperitivos, exploring Milan’s rich art and culture, and travelling through Italy.
It was one of the best years of my life, filled with memories I’ll always cherish."
Nicola Amedeo Salvia, BSc International Business Analytics, Exchange programme at the University of Bocconi.
"My exchange year at UCSD was unforgettable, filled with enriching experiences that expanded my perspective.
The campus buzzed with energy, and I was constantly inspired by the collaborative atmosphere and engaging discussions in and outside of class.
Exploring San Diego was equally rewarding—hiking El Cajon Mountain challenged me physically and gave me a breath taking view of the city, while evenings spent at La Jolla Cove watching the sunset were simply magical.
The blend of academic rigor and outdoor adventures made my time at UCSD truly transformative."
Karthik Krishna Sivaswamy, BSc International Business Analytics, Exchange programme at the University of California San Diego
"My time at Cornell University was a perfect balance of unforgettable memories and personal growth.
I made lifelong friends who became my support system and shared countless adventures, from sledding down snowy slope to cheering on the Big Red at ice hockey games.
Living in beautiful Ithaca, with its stunning Taughannock Falls and picturesque landscapes, was a dream.
Slope Day was a highlight with basking in the energy of the day.
Beyond academics, it was an incredible experience to be part of an Ivy League community, surrounded by so many brilliant, inspiring people.
At the ILR School, I was challenged intellectually and exposed to cutting-edge ideas, all while having access to world-class faculty and a rigorous curriculum that pushed me to grow both personally and professionally.
Cornell truly provided the perfect environment to thrive in all aspects of life."
Sourav Marar, BSc International Business Analytics, Exchange programme at Cornell University
Studying abroad at the University of Toronto has been a transformative experience.
The curriculum provided me with a comprehensive understanding of global markets and cultures.
Living in a foreign country allowed me to develop further academic skills and spurred personal growth, enhancing my adaptability and cross-cultural communication skills.
I am confident that this unique opportunity, in addition to the strong academic curriculum of the degree will equip me to a successful global career.
You will receive approximately two hours of weekly contact time per module, comprising lectures led by academic staff and smaller seminar groups.
Assessment typically includes a combination of coursework, presentation, in course tests and a final examination.
Our graduates of International Business Analytics can pursue roles such as Data Analyst, Financial Analyst and Business Analyst, applying analytical and financial insights in global markets.
Other avenues include Supply Chain Management, Consulting, Economics, Marketing, and Risk Management.
In previous years, this has included business-specific workshops, industry networking events and visits to companies such as Bloomberg and Salesforce.
International Business Analytics - BSc (Hons)
International Business Analytics with Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)
International Business Analytics with a Year in Industry - BSc (Hons)
International Business Analytics with a Year in Industry and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)
International Business Analytics with a Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)
International Business Analytics with a Year Abroad and Integrated Foundation Year - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/international-relations-with-business-management:
Explore the principles, concepts, theories and research methods in International Relations and Business Management
Get a rich and strong grounding in International Relations, including international political theory, comparative politics and regional studies, international security, international development and debates around globalisation, whilst exploring key elements of Business Management, including management, marketing, human resources, accounting and strategy.
You can complete your International Relations degree in three or four years.
If you choose to do a year abroad this will take place in Year 3, and Year 3 modules will instead be studied in Year 4.
Compulsory (75 credits):
•    International Relations Theory (30) •    Introduction to Social Science Methodologies (15) •    Introduction to Marketing and Communications (15) •    Management and Organisational Behaviour (15)
•    Qualitative Methods for Social Science Research (15) •    Quantitative Methods for Social Science Research (15) •    Unsettling Methods: Creativity in/for Social Science Research (15)
Choose 30 credits from school modules like:
•    British Politics (30) •    Colonialism, Capitalism and Development (15) •    Comparative Politics (30) •    Foreign Policy Analysis (15) •    Gender and Feminisms in World Politics (30) •    Global Theory (30) •    Modern Political Thought I (15) •    Modern Political Thought II (15) •    Modernity: Theories of the State, Economy and Society (30) •    Politics of International Law (15) •    Power in Global Governance (15) •    Social Theory (30) •    The International Politics of Security (15) •    The International Politics of the Developing World (15) •    The UK and the EU (15) •    US Politics (15) •    War in World Politics (15)
Choose 45 credits from school modules like:
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our International Relations with Business Management BA with a Year Abroad.
This course blends global politics and business, equipping me with analytical, strategic, and leadership skills.
It’s preparing me to navigate international challenges and excel in a global career.
You’ll receive approximately eight to 12 hours of weekly contact time, in the form of formal lectures and small group seminars.
The seminars are designed to generate informed discussion around set topics, and may involve student presentations, group exercises and role-play as well as open discussion.
You’ll complete a further 20 hours of independent study a week.
Students are assessed by a combination of coursework and exams.
A few modules are assessed by coursework only.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB at A-Level.
Our International Relations with Business Management graduates are highly employable, with invaluable political knowledge, business acumen, and analytical and communication skills that open doors to a huge variety of roles.
They move into domestic and international careers in government, business, policy research, education and media.
Recent graduates from the School of Politics and International Relations have been hired by:
You'll have access to bespoke career support every step of your degree, including one-to-one guidance, tailored workshops, and external speakers on topics such as careers in public affairs and working in parliament.
The School of Business and Management can help you find part-time projects in local charities and short internships in local businesses.
International Relations with Business Management - BA (Hons)
International Relations with Business Management with Year Abroad - BA (Hons)
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 8600

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/law-and-climate-justice:
Are you interested in studying law and have a passion for climate and social justice causes?
By studying this course, you could become one of the UK’s first Law and Climate Justice LLB graduates.
Being the first of its kind, the Law and Climate Justice LLB programme will qualify graduates to practise law in any field while also developing a specialism in climate justice.
This programme is designed to prepare lawyers with an interest in using their skills to address climate change.
Expect to learn about legal rules, principles, reasoning and ideas in comparative, social, political, economic, historical, philosophical, and practical contexts while applying this in the context of struggles and debates on climate justice.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to gain work experience with an NGO or civil society organisation while you conduct a 'Climate Justice Research Project’ with the aim to produce a research report of publishable standard.
This is the ideal programme for students:
Students who gain a place on the Law and Climate Justice LLB will study three years at Queen Mary with compulsory modules and elective modules available to enable students to cover a wide variety of subjects to reflect their interests and aspirations.
The number of credits and the level of assessment is the same as the LLB in Law.
In year one, there are three core law content modules:
In addition, you will study a year-long module:
In the second year, there are three core law content modules:
In addition, you will study the modules:
Students will also select elective modules from wider areas of interest:
In year three, you will study two core law content modules:
You will also conduct a collaborative project with an environmental organisation to gain experience of conducting a major legal research project.
This cutting-edge programme offers students a unique chance to specialise in a crucial area.
Alongside core law subjects, students will be able to explore topics of climate and environmental justice from multiple perspectives, allowing them to critically reflect on law’s importance to both understanding and addressing the pressing challenges of climate change and ecological collapse.
Law and Climate Justice students will be taught through a combination of lectures or seminars and tutorials.
For each module there is usually a two-hour lecture or seminar supplemented by a one-hour weekly or fortnightly small group tutorial.
For every hour spent in class, students are expected to complete a further two to three hours of independent study.
This time is spent reading cases, legislation and academic texts as well as working in informal study groups with peers.
In the final year, independent study will involve co-learning with an external partner organisation.
Each individual modules’ assessment is varied and may include one or more of written exams, oral presentations, midterm essays and coursework.
In the final year of all our law programmes, students have the option to research and write a dissertation on a legal topic in place of a taught module.
The School of Law offers excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Our standard contextual offer: AAA
Our enhanced contextual offer: ABB
A degree from the School of Law opens up an enormous pool of roles for our graduates.
Many apply their degree knowledge directly, entering legal roles such as barrister, solicitor, paralegal and legal adviser.
Others use the broad range of skills gained during study in other sectors, such as public administration and business.
Recent graduates from the School of Law have been hired by:
During your time at the School of Law you will have access to a bespoke careers programme, including:
Law is taught to the highest of standards at Queen Mary.
The School of Law was ranked 7th in the UK and 32nd in the world by QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023 , and 10th in the UK and 50th in world in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024 by subject .
Located on the doorstep of London’s legal district, we have links with major law firms and frequently host visiting lecturers at the forefront of legal practice in the City.
Our academics are some of the UK’s top legal minds, including a number of QCs, who advise high-profile international organisations such as the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the British Parliament and foreign governments.
The School is home to the Legal Advice Centre (LAC), through which students work alongside solicitors to offer free legal advice to the local community.
We have a lively and engaged student body, who run several law-based societies.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 3924

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/law-and-climate-justice:
Plus, one half module from the list below.
The following is an indicative list of the range of modules that may be on offer and is subject to change.
Plus, one full or two half modules from the list below.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/law-with-business:
Driven to pursue a career in law, but also have an interest in business and management?
We have the solution.
Explore how the law affects and operates in the world of business.
And enjoy the freedom to study the areas that interest you most, whether that's contract law, intellectual property, management of human resources or something else.
There's no better place to study these two subjects than London.
The city is a business hub and a centre for legal expertise and innovation.
You'll graduate with legal and business insights that will prove invaluable whether you continue your studies or kickstart your career.
You'll study a combination of modules from both the School of Law and the School of Business and Management.
This includes compulsory modules, so you meet Bar Council and Law Society requirements.
You'll learn about legal issues in management and pick from optional business modules.
At the same time, we'll help you build a foundation in law, looking at Acts of Parliament and EU legislation while mastering the skills you need to understand legal documents.
Tell us where you want to go, and we'll help you get there.
We partner with multinational companies such as PwC and connect you with law experts at major City firms such as Reed Smith.
You can also opt to apply for the competitive and highly prestigious, Law with Business with a Year in Practice.
This extended, four-year degree gives you the unique opportunity to complete an eight-month, paid work placement at a leading legal service provider with whom we partner in your third year.
These employer opportunities are at a number of international law firms, an in-house legal team, family law practices and a charity.
Plus 45 credits Law options and 45 credits Business options:
Full modules
Half modules
I chose Law because I aspire to build a legal career for myself after having completed numerous legal work experiences at sixth form.
However, business is also a great passion of mine and I hope to launch my own brand one day which is why I saw it as essential to build managerial and business skills from an early stage.
Queen Mary has been the perfect place for me to do just that.
Here, I am able to receive lots of support from staff who are always ready and available to schedule a meeting if you need support outside lectures and classes.
First year students studying the LLB in Law with Business receive approximately 12 hours of contact time per week.
For each module there is usually a two-hour lecture supplemented by a one-hour weekly or fortnightly small group tutorial.
This time is spent reading, preparing for formal study sessions, working on projects and revising for exams.
A new Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) was introduced in September 2021.
Anyone wishing to qualify as a solicitor is likely to have to take this centrally assessed SQE.
Queen Mary is dedicated to ensuring that students are equipped with the experience and skills required to undertake the SQE and any other post LLB bar qualification internationally.
Assessment typically includes written exams, oral presentations, midterm essays and coursework.
The School of Law and School of Business and Management offer excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:
Our Law with Business graduates in particular gain crucial transferable skills that prove highly valuable across multiple sectors – such as analytical and critical thinking, creative approaches to problem-solving, numeracy and the ability to research, interpret and use business data.
The Schools run tailored careers programmes for students and offer excellent on-campus resources to aid your studies, including:

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/law-with-business:
Plus, two of the following.
Plus, full or half modules totalling 1.5 full modules from the list below.
You can also choose to write a dissertation on a legal topic of your choice as an alternative to a taught module.
The following is an indicative list of the range of module that may be on offer and is subject to change.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/mathematics-with-management:
Unlock the powerhouse combination of mathematics and business to become the future leader of a major organisation.
Imagine your future career.
You’re working in a management role for a financial institution, technology company, or perhaps a thriving multinational start-up.
And through your mathematical knowledge, you’re leading the business to greater success.
Mathematics plays a critical role in helping managers understand the financial and operational aspects of their business to make strategic decisions – and it’s a valuable skill many organisations look for.
We’ll help you master a range of management topics from financial accounting to business analytics.
Explore mathematic modules including pure and modern applied mathematics, as well as probability and statistics.
You’ll also consider hot topics such as social justice and sustainability.
Research lies at the heart of our department, and you'll be taught by leading experts who have many years of experience working in the financial market and discovering new mathematical insights.
In third year, you’ll have the opportunity to apply to go global and study abroad.
Or perhaps you prefer the chance to apply for a placement to stand out from the crowd.
Whether you want to work in data science, business accountancy or financial risk consultancy, our careers consultant will help you get ready for success.
You can complete your Mathematics with Management degree in three or four years.
Apply for our Mathematics with Management BSc with Professional Placement to spend a year carrying out paid work in the financial sector as part of your degree.
Go global and study abroad as part of your degree – apply for our Mathematics with Management BSc with a Year Abroad.
Queen Mary has links with universities across the globe, including North America, Asia and Australia (partnerships vary for each degree programme).
"I am fascinated with the unique blend of this course: it covers everything from mathematics, programming and economics to marketing and entrepreneurship.
I've gained an in-depth understanding of the business world and was exposed to various mathematical approaches and applications."
The School of Mathematical Sciences has invested £18m to create an inspiring, collaborative space for our community of students and staff.
Our standard contextual offer: BBB, including B in Maths at A-Level.
Our enhanced contextual offer: BBC, including B in Maths at A-Level.
By combining your studies with management, you’re well placed to understand employer requirements and make a real contribution early in your career.
The School of Business and Management runs a tailored careers programme for students, which in previous years has included business-specific workshops, alumni panel events and office visits to Bloomberg.
We can also help you find part-time projects in local charities and short internships in local businesses and start-ups.
Both Schools offer dedicated careers consultants and internships co-ordinators.
Mathematics with Management - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Management with Professional Placement - BSc (Hons)
Mathematics with Management with Year Abroad - BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2025/politics-with-business-management:
Are you interested in the extensive and powerful relationship between business and politics, and how each influences the other?
Taught by experts from the Department of Politics and International Relations and School of Business and Management, this joint honours degree will give you an excellent grounding in politics and develop your understanding of management techniques and the forces at work in business.
The programme is tailored around these two closely connected disciplines, teaching you to critically examine the politics of business and public organisations.
Core modules cover political theory, ideas and ideologies, government and institutions; and key business practices like accounting, marketing, human resources and organisational innovation.
As you progress in your studies you can select modules according to your areas of interest and feel ready for your chosen career path.
You will graduate with significant political knowledge and analytical skills, and a working knowledge of the real-world strategies and processes used by contemporary businesses.
Compulsory (60-75 credits):
•    Modern Political Thought I (15) OR Comparative Politics (30) •    Introduction to Social Science Methodologies (15) •    Introduction to Marketing and Communications (15) •    Management and Organisational Behaviour (15)
Choose up to 45 credits from school modules like:
•    British Politics (30) •    Colonialism, Capitalism and Development (15) •    Foreign Policy Analysis (15) •    Gender and Feminisms in World Politics (30) •    Global Theory (30) •    International Relations Theory (30) •    Modern Political Thought II (15) •    Modernity: Theories of the State, Economy and Society (30) •    Politics of International Law (15) •    Power in Global Governance (15) •    Social Theory (30) •    The International Politics of Security (15) •    The International Politics of the Developing World (15) •    The UK and the EU (15) •    US Politics (15) •    War in World Politics (15)
We live in a world ruled by politics and business.
Studying both these subjects allows me to understand how and why society functions the way it does.
The way the programme is structured allows you to debate and interact with other people who have very different ideologies to yours and you begin to acknowledge and have an influence on not only your ideologies but other people as well.
The seminars are designed to generate informed discussion around set topics and may involve student presentations, group exercises and role-play as well as open discussion.
Our Politics with Business Management graduates are highly employable, with invaluable political knowledge, business acumen, and analytical and communication skills that open doors to a huge variety of roles.
Recent graduates from the Department of Politics and International Relations have been hired by:
Politics with Business Management - BA (Hons)
Politics with Business Management with Year Abroad - BA (Hons)

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/politics-with-business-management:
Taught by experts from both the Schools of Politics and International Relations and Business and Management, this joint honours degree will give you an excellent grounding in politics and develop your understanding of management techniques and the forces at work in business.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/coursefinder/courses/2026/russian-with-business-management:
Prepare for international business, becoming versed in Russian language and culture while studying finance and management.
This programme consists of the major element Russian and the minor element Business Management.
No prior knowledge of Russian is required.
The first year will give you a broad overview of the culture, society and history of Russia.
You’ll take Russian language modules at the appropriate level, from total beginner to native speaker.
In later years, you’ll deepen your knowledge with a choice of modules in Russian politics, history, literature, film and society.
Teaching of written and spoken Russian continues all the way through to your final year, combining practical language teaching with modules that explore the language in different contexts.
You’ll spend your third year studying or working in a Russian-speaking country such as Latvia, immersing yourself in its language and society.
The Russian language modules you take will depend on your entry level.
You could choose to go to a university in Moscow, St Petersburg, Yaroslavl, Tver, Petrozavodsk, Kazan or our Erasmus partner Daugavpils University in a Russian-speaking part of Latvia.
Our exchange programmes are with major state universities as well as with smaller-scale private schools.
If you’re interested in learning another language, you can sign up for a course at Queen Mary’s Language Centre , where you can choose from Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German, Japanese, Catalan, Italian or Spanish.
Business and financial contacts between Britain and Russia have expanded in recent years, and many companies are keen to recruit speakers of Russian.
Any potential employer is likely to look favorably on your willingness and ability to become fluent in a less common language.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/accounting-and-finance-msc:
Part of: Business and Management and Economics and Finance
This programme is designed for students who aim to pursue a career in financial services, accounting practice, banking or asset management.
It is also well-suited to finance professionals who wish to improve their knowledge of financial markets and accountancy.
You'll have the opportunity to enter the CIMA Master's Gateway fast-track route, which provides exemptions to 11 CIMA exams as long as you pass the CIMA exams in August.
CIMA will also assist with the exams in August.
This course is jointly run by the School of business and management and the School of Economics and Finance .
You will examine resource management in the context of today's evolving financial environment, and learn to critique traditional and contemporary financial practice.
Professional skills such as practical valuation and investment management will be developed through innovative compulsory modules.
You'll also have the opportunity to choose from optional modules on applied topics, such as risk management, computational finance and value management.
You will be required to attend mandatory pre-sessional mathematics and statistics lectures and classes as part of the course.
The course allows students to gain a professional accountancy qualification with CIMA.
Students who successfully complete their modules will be eligible for the CIMA Masters Gateway, a fast-track route to the CIMA Management Level, bypassing 11 exams.
By sitting the Management Level Case Study exam alongside their studies, students can achieve the globally-recognised CIMA Advanced Diploma in Management Accounting, in addition to their master's degree.
By studying this module, students would be able to gain understanding of the following topics: How to carry out valuation of real investment projects; Calculating return and risk, cost of capital; Interrelationship between real investment and financial decisions of the firm: capital structure, dividend policy, financial distress and bankruptcy; International financial management: transfer pricing, international taxation, mergers and acquisitions, and optimal investment decisions
This module examines the financial reporting of companies, and how such reporting can be analysed to evaluate performance.
No prior knowledge of accounting is assumed: students learn how accounts are constructed and analysed, then examine the impact of selected issues on the reported numbers e.g.
the reporting of intangible assets; and the treatment of share options used to reward management.
The module takes a global perspective and refers largely to the regulatory regime of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
This module examines the role and duties of corporate managers, goals of corporate activities, and interests in which corporations should run through debates by introducing students to key topics in corporate governance theory.
Research and practice enables them to criticise relevant academic literature to develop the ability to suggest potential areas for development.
Developments in early 21st century European corporate governance, corporate governance theory, regulatory frameworks, share/stakeholders, family-owned firms, institutional investors, socially responsible investments, and board of directors are explored.
This course examines the role played by management accounting information in organisational control and decision making to develop a critical understanding of the management accounting roles in organisations.
Contemporary issues in management accounting (e.g.
total quality management/accounting systems; Customer profitability analysis/customer accounting; Responsibility accounting, financial performance measures, transfer prices, Measuring non-financial performance and the balanced scorecard) are analysed.
Perspectives of accounting management control are explained.
Contemporary approaches of management control theories related to current global practices of management accounting are contrasted.
The module will provide a foundation in Research Methods for students for their dissertations.
It will instruct them in how to prepare a research proposal, to draw out objectives of research, to undertake literature reviews and to assess suitable research methods to use.
The course covers both qualitative methods such as case studies, questionnaires, surveys and interview techniques and an introduction to quantitative methods and data analysis.
By the end of the course students should be able to prepare a research proposal.
BUS184 Dissertation is a significantly lengthy (7,500 words) piece of independent work on a theme chosen by the student.
Each Dissertation must fulfil certain topical areas, which are supported with the guidance of a Dissertation Supervisor, and involves an extended period of research and writing (two to three months).
The Dissertation supports the BUSM143 Research Methods Module.
Assessment submission is at the end of the semester.
This offers a high level introduction to concepts related to investment analysis.
You will study a topic in depth and write up your analysis.
Valuation is at the heart of many areas of finance such as value­based investing, mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings.
This module provides a solid foundation in applied econometric methods tailored to the needs of finance students, equipping them with the essential skills to analyze financial data, make informed decisions, and prepare for more advanced studies in econometrics and finance.
As the international company becomes the norm rather than the exception, the need to internationalise the tools of financial analysis is apparent.
We now live in a highly integrated world economy, and it is crucial that businesses understand both the risks and opportunities that globalisation brings.
This module is designed to immerse student in the international dimension of financial issues.
It specifically focuses on the  international aspects of financial management to appreciate the issues that international investments and money management that international operation involves.
The Internet and related financial technologies such as cloud services, blockchain, data analytics (¿big data¿), and artificial intelligence (AI), combined with web-based business models, such as platforms, are rapidly transforming every day work and the future of the accounting and finance professions.
This module looks at how the leading financial technologies (Fintech) impact on accounting and finance professionals.
How do the accounting and finance professionals adapt to these changes?
What are the opportunities and challenges for accounting and finance professions in the Fintech market?
The wider legal, ethical and economic implications of using Fintech are discussed.
Risk management is key to an organisation's sustainability.
It allows a business to plan for situations ranging from global pandemics to volatile marketplaces, and to put solutions in place that enable them to continue to thrive.
The module is designed to provide a complete set of essential management skills to assess and tackle risks.
The module provides an introduction to the study of accounting and finance from the perspectives of other disciplines such as economic sociology, science and technology studies, anthropology, communications, and marketing with an emphasis on understanding the establishment of institutions, production of knowledge, and real-life practices found in accounting and finance.
This module examines aspects of Sustainability Reporting of companies as well as the determinants and the extent of the Integrated Reporting.
Specifically the Module focuses on determinants and  consequences of Integrated Reporting, Green House Gases regulatory framework and guidance and GreenHouse Gases measurement and reporting
The purpose of this module is to provide students with an overview of the theory and practice of pricing and hedging derivative securities.
The module is designed to give an insight into the risk management process and how capital is allocated.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with a practical introduction to modern portfolio theory and asset pricing, including active portfolio management, portfolio performance evaluation, portfolio insurance, and international portfolio diversification.
Assessment methods include academic coursework, short class presentations, debates, computer-based exercises, group work, mid-semester tests and final exams.
Students can choose to complete their dissertation under the supervision of the School of Business and Management or School of Economics and Finance.
The elective modules available to you depend on which School you choose to complete your dissertation with.
Programme Directors will run a session on dissertation choice and how this impacts on elective modules.
Examples of past dissertation topics include:
"My undergraduate degree is in accounting, so this programme allowed me to gain a professional understanding of finance, which helped to enhance my future career development.
The seminars on finance have helped me learn to apply the knowledge I gained in lectures."
Guanyu Liu , Accounting and Finance MSc, 2022
Programme Director: Dr.
Nicholas Tsitsianis
The School of Business and Management aims to provide a high-quality teaching and learning environment.
This programme's modules have been developed and will be taught by academics who are experts in their fields.
You’ll have the opportunity to gain invaluable insight from industry speakers in guest presentations and talks.
If you have any questions and would like to speak to the programme director via phone or email, please feel free to email them to schedule a one-to-one.
Dr Didem Gundogdu is a fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Her research interests broadly lie in empirical capital markets-based accounting research and financial reporting.
Dr Iona is the Course Director on the MSc Finance and Director of the QUMMIF Investment Fund at Queen Mary.
Her research concerns Corporate Finance, Corporate Governance, Economics of Innovation, and Empirical Microeconomics.
She has published widely in these fields.
Professor Johal’s current research interests include how to adapt social and economic statistics to understand employment and wealth changes in the UK.
His public interest reports are widely published.
Dr Alessandro Merendino specialises in corporate governance, strategic decision-making by boards of directors and executive teams, and digital technologies, including big data and artificial intelligence.
Dr Mitrou’s research interests lie in financial accounting and reporting, accounting standards, disclosures, capital market-based research and corporate governance and responsibility.
She is a fellow of the HE Academy.
Professor Muradoglu is Director of the Behavioural Finance Working Group.
Her main research interests include issues in behavioural finance with emphasis on financial crisis, corporate leverage and finance professionals’ behaviour.
Panourgias joined the Department of Accounting and Finance of the School Of Business and Management in October 2022 as Senior Lecturer in Fintech and Senior Lecturer in Accounting.
His research and teaching are in the area of the social studies of technologies relating to markets, finance, and accounting.
Dr Peng’s research interests centre on empirical corporate finance, corporate social responsibility, and corporate governance.
She worked for a Chinese financial conglomerate and is a Certified Management Accountant (CMA).
Dr Tsitsianis is an award-winning lecturer and reader here at Queen Mary.
His publications include parliamentary reports, books and journals including Critical Perspectives in Accounting, Accounting Forum and the Journal of Economic Behaviour.
You’ll be studying in the financial capital of the world, close to London's main financial districts - the Square Mile and Canary Wharf.
This course will prepare you to pursue a wide range of roles across accounting, financial services and banking, as well as more general roles within business.
Graduates from this course are now working in roles such as:
at companies including EY, Deloitte, PwC, CBRE and Brewin Dolphin.
Subjects likely to contain sufficient quantitative elements include Accounting, Mathematics, Sciences, Engineering, Computer Science, Economics and Finance.
Students from less quantitatively oriented degrees, such as Management and Politics, are welcome if they have focused on the more quantitative elements of those degrees.
If you do not have a degree with sufficient quantitative elements as indicated above, you may want to consider our CIMA accredited MSc Accounting and Management programme instead, which also allows you to enter the CIMA Master's Gateway fast-track route.
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MSc Accounting and Finance.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/accounting-and-management-msc:
The Accounting and Management MSc aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of accountancy and business analysis.
Students will have the opportunity to study topics such as management and financial accounting, international business, corporate governance, behavioural finance and statistics.
You'll also be eligible to enter the CIMA Master's Gateway fast-track route, which provides exemptions to 11 CIMA exams, through the successful completion of the degree and passing one CIMA Exam in August.
This programme aims to teach students to:
The course also allows students to gain a professional accountancy qualification with CIMA.
Students who successfully complete their modules will be eligible for the CIMA Masters Gateway, a fast-track route to the CIMA Management Level, by passing 11 exams.
By sitting the Management Level Case Study exam alongside their studies, students can achieve the globally-recognised CIMA Advanced Diploma in Management Accounting, in addition to their masters degree.
The dissertation forms an important part of the assessment of the MSc Programmes, carrying a weighting of four modules i.e.
one third of the entire Programme.
Students will be required to conduct an investigation of an issue relevant to the content of the Programme of which it forms a component.
Students will be guided through the dissertation process by an Advisor.
To prepare you for the dissertation, students are required to take the compulsory Research Methods module.
Information about the Dissertation will be provided on the dedicated module area on QM+.
In this module students will understand the evolution of corporate reporting from nationally specific practices to a more convergence towards IASB standards and why and how this has been sponsored.
This module introduces the core accounting concepts and explores the financial reporting framework and guidelines currently available to international companies.
Students will understand and appreciate how changes in regulation and corporate governance arrangements have added remuneration reports and the chairman's statements plus new demands for international integrated corporate reporting.
International Business is about business or firms engaging in intercontinental (cross-border) economic activities and trading transactions and/or the activity of doing business abroad.
In this module students would be expected to understand the nature of international business and key analytical techniques for the operation of a business in a global setting.
This module will involve developing a critical understanding of the key techniques that can be employed to support the allocation of corporate resources within an international sphere of operation.
The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) - the largest association of management accountants in the UK - considers management control system as combining accounting, finance and management with the leading-edge techniques needed to drive successful businesses.
The module focuses on the production and analysis of certain information such as job and process costing, joint costs, capital investment decisions, budgetary systems and transfer pricing.
The management team in any organisation uses that information produced to shape up its strategy.
Using publicly available information and real-world case studies this Module introduces a framework for business analysis and valuation grounded in recent developments in company valuation and business models.
The Module analyses and discusses key components of business models and company valuation such as business strategy analysis, accounting analysis, financial analysis and prospective analysis in a variety of decision contexts.
The Module then proceeds to focus on equity valuation.
The Module expands on Semester A modules of the MSc Accounting and Finance (all the modules in Semester A are compulsory).
Students learn how accounts are constructed and analysed, then examine the impact of selected issues on the reported numbers e.g.
the reporting of intangible assets; the treatment of Goodwill and share repurchases, financial ratios, analysis of the Equity Statement.
The Module refers largely to the regulatory regime of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Summative assessment uses conventional academic coursework, mid-semester tests and final exams.
Formative assessment takes place using short class presentations, debates, computer-based exercises, group work and online tests.
“It has been a wonderful year for me.
I have had a lot of support from my lecturers and School of Business and Management staff.
The Careers Team have been there for me whenever I needed them, and I believe that this learning experience will help me shape my career in the best way possible.
I wish to express gratitude to every person in the School of Business and Management for providing me with the most useful resources and an amazing experience during my masters.”
Dharmit Mehta, Accounting and Management MSc, 2022
Nikiforos Panourgias
Lecturer in Accounting
Dr Stavroula Yfanti is a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in Finance at the School of Business and Management.
Before joining Queen Mary in September 2022, Stavroula had a 15-year career in the banking sector and held Lecturer (Assistant Professor) positions at Lancaster University's Management School and Loughborough University's School of Business and Economics.
She teaches finance modules at the postgraduate and undergraduate levels.
You’ll be studying in one of the financial capitals of the world, close to London's main financial districts - the Square Mile and Canary Wharf.
Graduates of this course are now working in roles such as:
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in any subject.
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MSc Accounting and Management.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/actuarial-science-and-data-analytics-msc:
Part of: Business and Management and Mathematical Sciences
The way actuaries work is changing.
In today’s technology-driven world, you need advanced data analysis skills to effectively measure risk and make smart financial decisions.
With our masters, you’ll develop these skills, future proofing your career as an actuary.
You’ll graduate with an excellent working knowledge of programming, machine learning and computational statistics.
You'll also get a head start on your professional qualifications.
Our IFoA accredited programme will provide you with exemptions to all three Core Practices, CP1, CP2 and CP3.
This isn’t your traditional masters degree in Actuarial Science.
We have developed a course that not only helps you qualify as an Associate Actuary, but also teaches you the in-demand data analysis skills that employers look for.
Our students come from a variety of different backgrounds, so we allow you to tailor the programme to your needs.
Depending on your educational and professional background, what you choose to study might look a bit different.
We’ve included a few of our typical pathways below:
I have prior training in Actuarial Science If you’ve already completed all or most of the IFoA Core Principles, you can jump straight into studying for the Core Practices CP1, CP2 and CP3.
This is what’s at the heart of this programme.
With the Actuarial Risk Management I and II modules, you will cover the same content as Actuarial Practice (CP1).
After that, your final dissertation project will meet the requirements of Modelling Practice (CP2) and Communication Practice (CP3) from the IFoA syllabus.
I have no prior training in Actuarial Science If you’re new to the subject, it is also possible to work towards selected exemptions from the IFoA Core Principles.
Successful completion of our Actuarial Mathematics and Actuarial Statistics modules will provide you with exemptions to the IFoA’s CM2 and CS2 examinations respectively.
I am interested in developing data analysis skills This is one of the standout features of our MSc.
In addition to Actuarial Mathematics, we will also train you as a data analyst.
Depending on your interests and background, you’ll choose from modules in financial engineering, asset and liability modelling, advanced machine learning, financial data analytics, neural networks and deep learning and computational statistics with R.
By developing essential skills in both actuarial science and data analytics, you’ll be ready to work in a wide variety of well-paid roles.
Professional recognition
Successful students gain exemptions from up to three of the seven Core Principles examinations under the new IFoA Curriculum 2019.
This module will start by providing an understanding of actuarial advice and how it can be used to meet the needs of stakeholders in both public and private institutions.
The module will provide a deep understanding of the actuarial control cycles with their applications.
We will also study risk governance, risk identification and classification, risk measurement and responses to risk.
We consider scenario analysis, stress-testing and stochastic modeling in the evaluation of risk.
The module will  focus on capital management and monitoring and it will end with an overview of the general business environment.
This module will start by introducing students to contract design of financial products.
We will consider the process of gathering and using appropriate data for recommending actuarial solutions.
We will then move to modelling -we will learn how to analyse mortality and morbidity data, including factors that contribute to the variation in mortality and morbidity by region and in different social and economic environment.
We will also study  the cost and the pricing of providing benefits on contingent events.
We will finally consider investment management (valuation of individual investments and  valuation of portfolios of investments).
The module also will provide understanding of the process of implementing and monitoring of actuarial solutions.
Each Actuarial Science and Data Analytics MSc student is required to complete a 60 credit project dissertation.
Students may find a potential supervisor and fill out an Approval Form by the end of Semester B.
The module organiser will support this process and ensure that all students are allocated supervisor and project.
The supervisor and project must be approved by the Actuarial Science and Data Analytics MSc Programme Director, and the process for this, which may involve an interview with the student, takes place as approval forms are submitted.
A typical MSc project dissertation consists of about 30 word-processed pages, covering a specific research-level, industry applied topic in Actuarial Science and Data Analytics.
The dissertation will follow the  CP2 and CP3 (Core Practices) syllabuses of IFoA examinations.
The project will consist of two parts: modelling and communication.
The modelling part ensures that the student is able to critically analyse  and model commonly used data in actuarial work, maintaining an audit trail, using analytical and statistical methods (performing computation, simulations, or analysis) and  generate innovative outputs .
The  communication part  ensures that the student is able to communicate effectively in writing to both actuarial and non-actuarial audiences.
An oral presentation of results may be required.
The student usually will work on case studies in order to understand and explain actuarial questions.
Results from one or more journal articles need to be applied.
An MSc project may also involve collaboration with a collaborator based in industry.
An MSc project should help prepare students for working as qualified actuaries and even following PhD research.
This module will introduce you to some of the most widely-used techniques in machine learning (ML).
After reviewing the necessary background mathematics, we will investigate various ML methods, such as linear regression, polynomial regression, neural networks, classification with logistic regression, support vector machines and decision trees.
The module covers a very wide range of practical applications, with an emphasis on hands-on numerical work using Python.
At the end of the module, you will be able to formalise a ML task, choose the appropriate method to process it numerically, implement the ML algorithm in Python, and assess the method's performance.
The ability to store, manipulate and display data in appropriate ways is of great importance to data scientists.
This module will introduce you to many of the most widely-used techniques in the field.
The emphasis of this module is primarily on the interactive use of various IT tools, rather than on programming as such, although in a number of cases you will learn how to develop short programs (scripts) to automate various tasks.
This module covers advanced techniques in financial engineering, which are essential if you want to pursue jobs in financial institutions.
We first study the discrete-time binomial model for asset pricing, introducing some more formal concepts such as conditional expectations.
Then we look at continuous time models, and use the tools of stochastic calculus to derive the Black-Scholes equation.
We solve explicitly for the prices of European call and put options.
We also consider some more advanced applications, such as models for stock prices involving jumps and stochastic volatility, as well as interest rate models.
This module introduces key concepts in financial economics and risk management.
We will learn economic theories used by investors to determine their optimal portfolio of investment: utility theory, stochastic dominance, mean-variance portfolio theory, CAPM, factor models and arbitrage pricing theory.
We consider next efficient market theory.
We learn various tests for testing efficient market theory.
We also introduce stochastic models for asset prices.
Finally we study topics related to ruin/risk theory and look at how insurance companies estimate their liabilities using run-off triangles.
This module builds on the earlier module 'Machine Learning with Python', covering a number of advanced techniques in machine learning, such as different methods for clustering, dimensionality reduction, matrix completion, and autoencoders.
Although the underlying theoretical ideas are clearly explained, this module is very hands-on, and you will implement various applications using Python in the weekly coursework assignments.
This module introduces you to several state-of-the-art methodologies for machine learning with neural networks (NNs).
After discussing the basic theory of constructing and calibrating NNs, we consider various types of NN suitable for different purposes, such as recurrent NNs, autoencoders and transformers.
This module includes a wide range of practical applications; you will implement each type of network using Python (and PyTorch) for your weekly coursework assignments, and will calibrate these networks to real datasets.
This module introduces modern methods of statistical inference for small samples, which use computational methods of analysis, rather than asymptotic theory.
The techniques covered in the module include non-parametric tests, bootstrap, and cross-validation.
Most of these methods are now used regularly in modern business, finance, and science.
Finally, the module includes the implementation of all the proposed methods with the statistics software R.
Dr Lei Fang is Programme Director for MSc Risk Analytics.
She teaches modules in teaching Actuarial Science, Risk Management, and Financial Mathematics.
Lei was awarded Sir Edward Johnston Prize by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA), and Award of the Dimitris N.
Chorafas Foundation.
In addition to being the Deputy Head of Centre for Mathematical Education, Lei is currently a member of the university Senate, Director of MSc Risk Analytics, and the Chair of Natural Language Processing working party in IFoA.
Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries
Chris Sutton is Senior Lecturer in Actuarial Science in the School of Mathematical Sciences.
He qualified as a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries in 1993.
He is a member of the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries Risk Management Board and led the profession's taskforce on Social Security in 2020-21.
With this qualification, you can go beyond traditional actuarial roles such as insurance and pensions.
You will be able to work across a variety of industries, including health, investment banking and climate risk.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in  actuarial science, mathematics, statistics, econometrics, mathematical economics, finance, or engineering.
Other education backgrounds can be considered subject to demonstrating satisfactory knowledge of actuarial science, mathematics, statistics, finance or engineering.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/art-business-and-law-llm:
Part of: Law and Business and Management
This LLM, offered by Queen Mary's Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS) in partnership with the Institute of Art and Law (IAL) is a unique and challenging programme exploring the legal issues surrounding art and cultural objects and cultural heritage.
You’ll get an in-depth understanding of the workings of the law when it comes to the arts industry and cultural property/heritage, as well as the application of the law in everyday practice.
Catch up on a recording on our Art, Business and Law webinar.
As part of the programme, we organise visits and discussions at some of the most influential art establishments in the UK.
Previously, this has included guided tours of the British Museum, The Tate and the Victoria and Albert Museum, together with legal discussions of their collections and practices.
Some of these visits are part of our formal Co-Curricular Programme we offer across the semesters where we invite practitioners across the field to engage with our students, while other visits are conducted on a more informal, ad hoc basis.
Further enriching the academic experience, is our Visiting Scholar and Researcher in Residence Scheme , augmenting the research environment for our faculty and students through interactions with a visiting scholar and the various workshops or masterclasses delivered by them during their time with us.
For example, our first scholar in residence, from the University of Amsterdam delivered a public lecture as well as a student seminar on restitution issues relating to Nazi-looted art, and also a master class on research methodology for all post-graduate students.
You will also have voluntary access to an excellent series of lectures in Critical Thinking and Writing in Law , a programme offered to all our LLM students to help you to improve your writing and legal research skills.
You will also have the opportunity to attend introductory lectures offered to LLM students during the CCLS induction weeks, including seminars on the common law, commercial law and other relevant topics.
CCLS’s qLegal clinic offers further career training opportunities for our students.
It is an award-winning law clinic, providing legal assistance and support to tech start-ups and entrepreneurs, providing students with in-depth commercial and legal training, with an emphasis on innovation and creativity.
Past projects in the creative industry including working with clothes designers, film makers, immersive experience organisers, NFTs and IP issues.
qLegal also hosts a blog competition allowing students to research topics of their choice.
These articles can be creative and link to any area of law, such as this blogpost about the menswear industry published in 2021.
An experience in the field of art law is not guaranteed.
However, qLegal’s experience is always legal and commercial.
The programmes will allow you to develop a set of skills and knowledge transferable to any field.
The ABL programme has introduced two lecture series since its inception.
The first, Visiting Scholar and Researcher Lecture Series involves scholars and researchers visiting at CCLS.
Another exciting new initiative was introduced in 2022 with artist, Ben Kinmont giving the inaugural lecture of our Artists’ Talks series which explores issues such as the relationship between art and law from the artist’s perspective.
The series is the brainchild of one of our former students, Mary Rinebold, writer and consultant at Canvas Art Law, who is the curator of the series and has continued this year with artist Haley Mellin exploring the link between art and conservation.
You will complete 180 credits:
This programme is available as part time study.
Part time study allows the student to complete their programme over a 2-year period.
The same credit requirements apply as for the full-time LLM apply but are spread over 2 years.
View the full list of modules available on this programme .
The course provided a holistic learning experience covering all the relevant and important topics in this specialised area, right in the heart of the art capital of London.
Through guest seminars, workshops and lectures, we were given access to a wide range of different stakeholders and experts in the art market which further contextualised our studies.
Zaki Jumahri, Art, Business and Law LLM, 2022.
Read more testimonials from students on the Art, Business and Law LLM .
The modules are taught in a diversity of styles including lecture format, case study analysis, group exercises, with plenty of opportunity for interactive discussion throughout.
The faculty is made up of an eclectic mix of leading academics and researchers from CCLS and IAL, and respected industry practitioners, some of whom are featured on the right.
You will have a team of advisors to support you, including the ABL Programme Director, the LLM and Research Directors, your dissertation supervisor and your module convenors.
PhD (LSE); LLM in Alternative Dispute Resolution (Osgoode Hall Law School); LLB (University of Windsor); BA Hons.
(University of Toronto); Barrister and Solicitor (Ontario, Canada)
Professor De Girolamo is the Programme Director for the Art, Business and Law LLM at Queen Mary.
She teaches and researches on dispute resolution and cultural values at CCLS.
Her current areas of research include aspects of social order, negotiation interactions and outcomes, mediation in civil justice and cultural property/heritage disputes.
Debbie has published on negotiation, mediation, on law and society issues, and cultural property/heritage disputes.
MA (Cambridge)
Ms Gould entered the legal profession after studying history at Cambridge University.
She trained as a solicitor, initially working in private practice as an intellectual property lawyer with a US firm then moving in-house as counsel for a global pharmaceutical company.
She writes, teaches and presents on a range of areas pertaining to art and cultural heritage law including copyright, heritage crime, museum ethics and contracts.
After studying Classics and Law at Cambridge, Mr Bennett was called to the Bar and has held university posts at Liverpool, Leeds, Louisville, City London and Notre Dame.
He has also practised and teaches and writes in the area of cultural heritage law.
He is also a Visiting Professor at Queen Mary University of London.
BA LLD (Malta) LLM (LSE) PhD (UCL)
Dr Miriam Goldby is Professor of Shipping, Insurance and Commercial Law.
She authored Electronic Documents in Maritime Trade: Law and Practice (OUP), and has published extensively in the fields of shipping, insurance and financial law.
BA Economics (Essex), MPhil Economics (Cambridge) LLM (Warwick), PhD (Kings College London)
Professor Kokkoris is Vice Chairman of the Institute of Studies in Competition Law and Policy.
His main research interests are in law and economics, comparative competition law/economics and policy focusing on EU, China and ASEAN, as well as intellectual property, and financial regulation.
Consultant Solicitor
Mr Misquitta specialises in both contract negotiation and litigation for businesses involved in art, brands and technology.
He acts as General Counsel for the Victoria & Albert Museum and is a trustee of both the Association for Cultural Enterprises and the Sir Percival David Foundation of Chinese Art.
LLB, LLM (Ghent University), LLM (Yale University), DPhil (University of Oxford)
Ms Morbee teaches Corporate Finance Law, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Art and Money.
She is also writing a DPhil in Law and Finance at the University of Oxford, and holds an LLB and LLM from Ghent University, Belgium, and an LLM from Yale University, United States.
LLB (Bue), LLM (Warwick) and PhD (London)
Professor Olivares-Caminal specialises in international finance and insolvency law.
He has acted as a consultant to central banks and sovereign states.
He is the author/editor of seven books and has extensively published in peer-reviewed journals.
You will be based in the heart of London, a short walk from some of the UK's leading art institutions and their archives.
You will have access to an extraordinary range of archives and resources – helping you to build a network of professional connections.
Teaching is based at the School of Law's postgraduate centre at the Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS), located in Lincoln's Inn Fields.
This area is home to numerous barristers’ chambers and law firms and is also short walk from the Royal Courts of Justice.
Depending on the modules you choose, you may also have classes at the Mile End Campus or the University of London's Institute of Advanced Legal Studies or Charterhouse Square .
Our graduates have gone on to work in culture ministries, museums, creative industries, practising as solicitors, working as consultants and continuing education in the field.
We also offer:
I was assigned to a tech start-up working as an intern on tasks and projects involving crypto and digital art, and NFTs.
The experience was useful and helped me understand more about crypto art and apply knowledge learned in class across a range of issues.
Chiara Gallo, 2022, participated in an internship during her time with qLegal .
We will also consider an undergraduate degree in Art studies, Cultural studies or other related subject.
Non-law graduates may also be considered on the basis of exceptional professional experience in a legal area or an area directly related to their programme of study.
Particular regard will be had to (i) successful completion by the applicant of any certificate or diploma course or courses offered by IAL and (ii) professional experience in the art field with a legal element.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/blockchain-management-and-applications-msc:
Blockchain technology is poised to cause revolutionary change in how business is done.
These systematic changes require businesses to be aware of the full potential of blockchain technology, and how it can be applied in the rapidly changing business environment.
This programme provides students with knowledge of how to use and apply blockchain technology to enhance business processes and strategies.
You'll also have the opportunity to develop your programming skills.
You will cover a range of topics including entrepreneurship, economics and information technology, with an emphasis on how blockchain technology can be applied within these areas.
You will also have the opportunity to select optional modules on topics such as quantitative methods, business analytics, international business digitalisation and economic development.
The module provides a relatively non-technical overview of the use of statistical methods in business research.
There is an emphasis on practical work and interpretation, and there will be extensive use of Stata, a statistics/econometrics package.
The course covers the basic elements of: descriptive statistics, probability, sampling, inference, and multivariate regression analysis.
What is Bitcoin?
What is a blockchain?
This module introduces the conceptual and technical concepts behind Bitcoin, blockchain, and other aspects of the digital economy.
Python is a language with a simple syntax, and a powerful set of libraries.
While it is easy for beginners to learn, it is widely used in many scientific areas including data science, machine learning and blockchain.
This module is an introduction to the Python programming language for students without prior programming experience.
Topics include algorithms and problem solving, data types, control structures, functions, arrays, files, and the mechanics of running, testing, and debugging.
This module is an introduction to cryptocurrency and blockchain programming for students without prior programming experience of building a blockchain.
Students will learn key fundamentals of blockchain technologies and theories behind cryptocurrency transactions as well as practical training of creation of their own blockchains.
Topics include how to build a blockchain, how to create a cryptocurrency, and how to create a smart contract.
Although this module is not highly technical, it requires a basic level of mathematics and Python knowledge.
This module will provide an introduction to the methods and the tools of data science.
The module will use the programming language Python and will cover the fundamental stages of data analysis workflow, including data collection, data pre-processing, exploratory analysis, statistical modelling, and business reporting.
This will involve web scraping, merging and cleaning data sets, feature engineering, descriptive analysis and data visualisation, and applying various unsupervised and supervised machine learning models.
The module will focus on applications in the general business management domain as well as the analysis of digital currency and blockchain data.
The module  provides a deep analytical insight into ethical controversies in digital economy.
Students will acquire knowledge of how ethics in digital economy contributes to sustainable management of the organisation in the long-term.
The module focuses on ethical norms in blockchain technology and other areas of digitalisation.
Students will build up their theoretical base from case studies.
This is an introduction to the emerging and important area of blockchain regulation and law, and how it may fit into the context of established legal principles.
No law background is assumed.
The module focuses on the analytical frameworks of using blockchain technology to promote and secure the social impact.
The elements of the module is to learn how blockchain technology is linked or can be further related to the digitalisation of the public sector (e-government).
The students will gain analytical skills of how blockchain can be used in domains, e.g.
digital identity, privacy protection, cybersecurity and e-voting.
The most recent technological developments and the application  are to be taught through case studies.
The module overviews the current and future implementation and the use of blockchain technology  by e-government in developed and developing economies.
The module  provides a deep analytical insight into the roots of blockchain's social justice elements in the era of digital economy.
Students will learn fundamental elements and principal of how blockchain technology contributes to accelerate, implement and achieve social justice not only in the individual economic systems but also globally in the long-term.
The module focuses on the analysis of understanding a broader context of key elements of achieving social justice through the digitalization process.
The module focuses on the implications of entrepreneurial innovation on economy and organization.
The central theme of the module is the exploration of the most recent technological developments and the application of blockchain technology in organizations and economy.
The module overviews the strategic benefits of the implementation and the use of blockchain technology across the different sectors in  the economy.
This course introduces contemporary theories and the empirical literature of the economics of developing countries with specific reference to public policy delivery.
The course will address  the problems with public policy delivery in developing countries and what solutions and strategies have been identified in the literature.
The course will deal with debates such as centralised and decentralised delivery methods, political economy issues of corruption and state capture, and the role of incentives among politicians and bureaucrats in service delivery.
The module provides a non-technical overview of quantitative methodologies frequently used in finance and international business research.
The module is data driven and covers the basics of: Hypotheses testing, OLS and Logistic Regression Analysis, Instrumental Variables, Time Series Analysis, Panel Data Models and Differences-in Differences.
The module also teaches how to apply these methods using STATA (a leading econometrics software).
The objective of this course is to examine how organisations develop and execute their international business strategies in a rapidly digitising business environment.
Classic international business theories and concepts will be revisited in the light of evolving information and communication technologies.
International business strategies (with a special focus on the global sourcing of IT) will be discussed.
The course will involve a critical appreciation of contemporary developments and future trends.
Modules are assessed through coursework, essays, projects, presentations and unseen exams.
You will gain hands-on experience using industry-leading software and take part in interactive seminars, presentations and lively group discussions with your peers.
Dr Gutiérrez-Romero’s research analyses how to overcome the most significant barriers to development.
She is a director of the Economic Development and Impact Evaluation (EDIE) network, and founding member of the Equity and Development Research Group (EDReG).
Dr Kim’s main research interests are operations and supply chain management, specialising in combinatorial optimisation and scheduling theory.
He is also interested in applications of operational research, especially optimisation, to various problem areas including telecommunication and actuarial science.
Dr Lioliou’s research interests revolve around the governance of outsourcing/offshoring arrangements and open-innovation models.
She is also interested in firms’ entrepreneurial orientation as well as their internationalization efforts.
Professor Matousek is Professor of Finance at Nottingham University Business School.
He is a member of the Chartered Association of Business Schools (ABS) International Committee.
He served as Head of Research and Director of the Research Centre for EMEA Banking, Finance and Economics.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s Mile End campus, one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
This course could lead to a roles such as:​ Blockchain Developer, ​Blockchain Analyst, Cryptocurrency Analyst​, Cryptocurrency Economist​, Blockchain Entrepreneur​ and Blockchain Consultant.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in , provided the degree contains good levels of study of Mathematics and Statistics.
Students from less quantitatively oriented degrees, such as Accounting, Management, and Politics, are welcome if they have focused on the more quantitative elements of those degrees.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/creative-industries-and-arts-organisation-ma:
The Creative Industries and Arts Organisation MA is designed to give students a critical, strategic and ethical understanding of sustainable business and stakeholder relations in the creative, cultural and arts industries.
With a focus on environmental and labour sustainability, and steeped in critical management studies research, the programme strives to offer students concrete experiences of practitioner, activist, and organiser frameworks for creative labour today.
This programme critically explores how the study of creative industries and the cultural sector is linked to business and society, and applied in organisational practice, using real case studies from around the world.
Building on a network of practitioners, creatives, organisers and strategic collaborators, the course offers a complex view of the often precarious forms of work and organisation that have emerged in the creative sectors, and their relation to social justice and economic and political equality.
You will have the opportunity to delve into subjects at the heart of the creative industries, including:
You will research the practices of partner organisations through open discussions, debates and guest lectures from artists, creatives, arts administrators and cultural organisers.
You will gain skills in collaborative and participatory action research, ethical human resource management and sustainable partnership development.
Modules are taught in collaboration with the Schools of English and Drama, Law, Geography, and Languages, Linguistics and Film, with carefully selected modules from these schools available as optional modules, alongside a range of optional business modules.
This module consists of professional development seminars within the theme of creative industries and cultural sector leadership.
The seminars, delivered by diverse professionals and practitioners from these sectors, will provide students with professional skills and networking opportunities within different industries and will inspire new thinking and develop practical behaviour changes.
The seminar series is also designed to bring together students on the CIAO and Heritage Management MAs, and to encourage both cohorts to cross-fertilise knowledge and understanding of sector leadership.
This module focuses on the relevant methods of analysis and applied research into the organisation history of the creative industries.
What are the interdisciplinary methods that generate innovation and leadership in the creative industries and arts and cultural sector, and which methods are more or less appropriate for engaging these different sectors of society?
This module will provide students key methodological knowledge to be able to engage critically with creative industries practice and organisation, and prepares students to undertake dissertation and practice-based projects in the third semester.
This module explores the foundational concepts and theories of the creative industries.
This module provides students with the relevant theories, conceptual tools and factual information necessary to gain an understanding of, and be able to engage critically with, the realities of managing, working and progressing within the cultural and creative industries.
The process should reflect skills of formulating research questions, synthesising and analysing data, drawing insights and conclusions, and written communication.
Documentary in its simplest of forms is a recording of an act.
The film camera is first and foremost a recording instrument, whether it captures 'life caught unawares' or a fictional scenario.
This module examines the history of 'non-fiction' filmmaking in the 20th and 21 st century through the understanding of documentary styles and genre.
Political, social, ethical and historical issues will be addressed through the engagement of theory and practice.
This module examines films that can be considered activist - a body of work that engages issues of social and political significance.
These varied films are driven by the activism of their filmmakers, their protagonists and through the films' direct participation in activism.
Using artistic, ideological, socio-cultural, historical, technological, and practical frameworks to examine activist filmmaking this course will explore how the cinema and activism interact.
This is a theory/practice module and will include the production of a short film.
This module introduces concepts, theories and practices that are shaping our thinking about creating and scaling new ventures in a fast-moving environment with great uncertainty.
It addresses strategic (e.g.
how to design a business model and entrepreneurial strategy) and practical issues (how to write a business plan and make a pitch to win funding).
Students will not only be introduced to the principles of business model design, but also how to deal with uncertainty in the entrepreneurial process.
This module will investigate leadership in the social and public sectors from theoretical and practical perspectives.
The module explores established and new paradigms of leadership at all levels in social and public organisations, characterised by their tendency to operate in politically- and/or resource-constrained environments.
Students will reflect critically on relevant research, and apply their insights to real social and/or public organisational cases.
The process of understanding and challenging leadership practises will also contribute to students' employability and personal development.
This module focuses on the theory and practise of funding and financing in the creative and cultural sector ( including the heritage sector).
The module will give students a grounding in the landscape of funding and financing streams as well as technical aspects of understanding the organisational and legal frameworks that exist in the creative and cultural sector.
Explores the multiple organisational forms in the creative and cultural industries to give students critical and practical tools to organise in the creative economies.
Rooted in the ethical mission of the School of Business and Management, the organising methods and organisational forms and behaviours common and emergent in the creative industries and cultural sector will be explored through an interdisciplinary understanding of creative ecologies and their political and economic networks.
This module examines the relationship between the cultural and creative industries and the environment from a range of perspectives and in a number of contexts.
It addresses the environmental impacts of cultural production, as well as the opportunities for more socially just and environmentally sustainable arts and cultural ecologies.
This module examines key theoretical texts and ideas that have shaped our contemporary understanding of performance, theatre and culture.
It offers a distinctive, performance-oriented route into looking at work of wider social, philosophical, and political importance.
It aims to provide you with a diverse range of theoretical and historical starting points from which to consider the study of theatre and performance, and introduce you to a variety of performance texts and practices that these ideas can be applied to.
This is not an exhaustive list of elective modules.
The Creative Industries and Arts Organisation MA offers over 30 elective modules from departments across the University, including Law, Drama, English, Film and Geography.
For a full list of elective modules, please email sbm-postgraduate@qmul.ac.uk .
Group work and its methodology is central to the student learning experience on this programme.
Summative assessment uses various methods, ranging from conventional academic coursework, through to shorter specific exercises and analyses of case studies.
Formative assessment takes place using class presentations, industrial interactions, peer to peer debates, short written exercises and group work.
"Being part of the Creative Industries and Arts organisation programme at Queen Mary has been more than an inspiration.
The course provides excellent, professional and human education, that opens up knowledge about an industry that will be crucial to me in the future."
Lisa Kida, Creative Industries and Arts Organisation MA, 2020
This programme draws on the experience of an advisory panel of creatives, researchers, and organisational innovators.
Staff contributing to this programme bring a wide range of experience, and have previously worked as creative and cultural organisers, as well as consultants to government agencies.
You will gain invaluable insight from guest speakers, get hands-on experience through substantive interactions with partner organisations, and develop communication skills through practically-oriented seminars, presentations and lively group discussions.
You will take an active role in your own learning by reading designated material, producing written assignments and completing projects.
We invest in both your educational and personal development, and you will be assigned an Academic Advisor to support you throughout your time at Queen Mary.
A historian by training, Dr Legon explores the ways societies interact with their pasts, particularly during and after political and religious conflict.
He was previously Research Manager at Historic Royal Palaces, Queen Mary’s collaborative partner on the MA Heritage Management.
Amit Rai is the programme director of MA Creative Industries and Arts Organisation.
He is widely published in his field and has taught around the world at institutions such as Stanford University and Georgetown University.
Dr Paula Serafini holds a BA in Art History and Arts Management (Universidad del Salvador, Argentina), an MA in Anthropology and Cultural Politics (Goldsmiths) and a PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis (King’s College London).
Prior to joining Queen Mary, she was a Research Associate at CAMEo Research Institute for Cultural and Media Economies at the University of Leicester.
Dr Serafini’s work is in the field of cultural politics, and her research interests include extractivism, social movements and art activism, cultural labour, and socioecological transitions.
The university’s location is in very close proximity to some of the most creative and culturally innovative neighbourhoods in the world.
These include Hackney Wick, Hackney Central, Bethnal Green, Dalston, Hoxton and Shoreditch.
These neighbourhoods represent important clusters of creative and cultural activity, and are a testament to the vibrancy of the East End.
Queen Mary is proud to be part of this mosaic of arts activity in London, by having close links to local creative enterprises, and third sector and arts organisations.
This programme is ideal for students wishing to enter or further their careers in frontline arts and cultural provision, or creative industry policy settings.
Graduates of this programme have gone on to work at galleries, media production companies and in creative and non-creative roles in a wide range of businesses.
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MA Creative Industries and Arts Organisation.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/development-and-international-business-msc:
Part of: Geography and Environmental Science , Business and Management and Global Health and Development
Explore the changing relationship between states and markets.
In recent years, interest in the relationship between international business and global development has increased.
On this programme exploring business and global development, you will study the politics of development, foreign direct investment and international institutions of global political-economic governance.
Develop an advanced and critical understanding of the development of international business from various intellectual perspectives.
Examine many approaches, from neo-liberal and mainstream business studies, through to more critical views which engage with questions of power and resistance.
You will consider issues concerning world economy and development, and will examine new theories around development futures.
You will gain formal training in research design and methods.
Thereafter, you may select optional modules to focus on your areas of interest.
These might include study of the economics of development, global governance, international business strategy and social and political marketing, among many other options offered by the School of Geography and the School of Business and Management.
You will receive tailored research supervision and training suitable to your individual research interests in order to complete your dissertation.
This programme also offers students the opportunity to undertake an unpaid internship with London International Development Centre (LIDC) while studying.
LIDC will take on up to four Masters students as interns per year.
Your dissertation can include fieldwork conducted in the UK or overseas, and students will be responsible for the costs associated with this.
For full module information, please see the QMUL Module Directory .
This module examines processes of economic "globalisation" and changes in international business over time.
The focus is on the multinational firm in the context of trends in the world economy since the 1970s.
It provides a critical and comparative perspective on the nature and scope of international business, theories of international trade and its regulation, and conceptualisations of global supply chains.
It uses sector and country case studies to encourage an applied understanding of differentiated political-economic relationships, processes and outcomes.
The purpose of the module is to provide master's level research training in human geography and related social science disciplines.
The module therefore covers core understandings of key concepts and approaches to human geography and social sciences research; subject specific research and transferable skills; and qualitative and quantitative, subject specific methodological and presentation techniques.
This module will equip students with the skills necessary to independently design and implement an extended piece of primary dissertation research.
-theorising global development provides the theoretical framework underpinning the modules for MSc Development and International Business and MA Global Development programmes.
The module will: i) introduce  to a range of mainstream, alternative and decolonial theoretical approaches to `D/development'; ii) challenge the common positioning of the Global South as a place where theories flow to rather than from, and as a collection of places in need of external (Northern) development interventions; iii) expose the spatial limits of mainstream / 'universal' theories of development in geography developed through narrow engagements with formal spaces of advanced capitalist economies in the Global North; iv) recognize the vital and dynamic ways in which the development trajectories of people and places in global South and global North are mutually constituted.
Students will develop their conceptual understanding through key themes such as critical global development, the intersections of environment and development, transformations in the economy and work and post development.
The dissertation should include: a) a set of research aims clearly relating the dissertation and its aims to the relevant field of enquiry, b) a review and synthesis of previous studies and of the relevant theoretical, epistemological and methodological literature relating to the dissertation's field of enquiry and an examination of the place of such studies within the field of human geography; c) an examination of the study's research question(s) by means of analysis of new empirical material and/or original analysis of existing non-academic sources; and d) a full and critical discussion of methodology, research design and implementation.
This module explores theoretical, empirical and policy dimensions of patterns and processes of migration and mobilities in a global context and consciously across the global North/global South 'divide' from a scalar, relational and networked perspective.
Although the focus will be on the nature and dynamics of contemporary movement of people, the module will also incorporate an analysis of the movement of information, goods and capital as framed within the 'new mobilities paradigm'.
Theoretically, the module analyses the key framings of contemporary migration in relation to transnationalism, diaspora and post-national citizenship.
In turn, it will interrogate the nature and links between transnationalism, multiculturalism and/or integration; the migration-development nexus; the politics of irregularity and 'illegality'; the relationships between the emergence of global cities and a migrant division of labour; the nature of global gendered mobilities and power and mobility as well as the interrelations between conflict, violence and mobility.
The module explores the economic-development geographies of people's everyday struggles to make a living in the contemporary global economy.
Drawing on research within and across the Global North and Global South, this module engages with an exciting 'labour geographies' research agenda, concerned with how workers are capable of fashioning the geography of capitalism to suit their own needs and self-production; and to identify geographical possibilities and labour market strategies through which 'workers may challenge, outmaneuver and perhaps even beat capital' in different locations.
The module seeks to expose the spatial limits of mainstream 'universal' theories in geography which presume that 'the economy' and 'labour' can be theorised solely from the perspective of the formal spaces of advanced capitalist economies in the global North.
There are a lot of things to appreciate about studying at Queen Mary, but what I liked the most about the course was the opportunity to study in two different schools (Geography and Business schools), which provided a very diverse learning environment, not just in terms of culture and backgrounds, but also in terms of mind-sets, political views, and opinions towards development and globalisation.
Beatriz Isabel Ho Zhang, MSc Development and International Business
Dr Nina Ramesh, and Dr Isadora Cruxen are Co-Programme Directors of this programme.
Teaching for all modules includes a mixture of formal lectures and small group seminars.
You will also receive tailored research supervision and training as you prepare an independent research project for your dissertation .
Find out more about the School of Geography’s inclusive approach to learning , co-created with our diverse student body, enhanced by our world-leading research.
Dr Baglioni researches historical processes of development in low income countries, with reference to sub-Saharan Africa.
She has conducted research in Senegal on poverty reduction, export agriculture and land grabbing.
She has published in journals including the Journal of Economic Geography.
Professor Liam Campling’s ongoing policy collaboration with development agencies, trade unions and NGOs (a combination of commissioned and pro-bono work), has been recognised for its influence on trade policy, regulation and legislation, and labour conditions in tuna factories in Papua New Guinea.
B.A., Botswana; PhD, Cambridge
Professor Datta researches transnational migration; migrant remittance and philanthropic giving; geographies of finance; gender and development.
She is Deputy Vice-Principal (Research Impact) and Director of the Centre for the Study of Migration.
PhD (UCL), MSc (UCL), BSc (Bristol)
Dr Halvorsen is a human geographer interested in grassroots politics and urban democracy.
His research is driven by an underlying question: how and why does territory matter to social and political transformation?
In answering this, he pays close attention to the ideas and practices of Latin American Geographies, and part of his work aims to support greater dialogue across epistemic and linguistic barriers.
Dr Monteith’s research explores subjective experiences of work, hustle and ‘make do’ at the margins of capitalist economies; the relationships, politics and places produced by these experiences, and the possibilities they provide for realising more just and inclusive economic geographies.
His work is conducted in collaboration with the Work Rights Centre in London and the Urban Action Lab in Kampala, Uganda.
Dr Niranjana is a human geographer interested in urban natural environments and what they have to do with sociality, alterity and politics in cities, primarily in the global South.
Building on experience as a journalist reporting on urban development and culture in south India, their work has long been rooted in ethnographic engagement with the everyday life of cities.
Queen Mary have invested £105m in new facilities in recent years to offer our students an exceptional learning environment.
We are one of the leading centres for Geography, Environmental Science and Global Development scholarship in the world.
We pride ourselves on our close research and teaching links with external partners including the Environment Agency, the Museum of the Home, the British Museum, Citizens UK and Natural England.
This programme will prepare you for a broad range of careers by developing your research skills and substantive knowledge required by multinational businesses, social enterprises, NGOs, development organisations, and government departments.
Previous g raduates have gone on to work in business consultancies, development charities, commodity supply chai n management , national government trade s departments, and financial trading.
Explore what our recent students have done after graduation and how their time studying on this programme prepared them for their career.
As a government officer of a developing country, I strongly believe that the education that I received allowed me to enhance my technical skills and professional expertise to contribute to the development process and global integration of my country in such a competitive and dynamic global economic order.
Nizamettin Dogan Guner, MSc Development and International Business (2022)
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MA Development and International Business.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/digital-marketing-msc:
Digital Marketing represents a rapidly growing and technologically-advanced area of business operations.
The MSc Digital Marketing programme is designed to prepare you for a career within this cutting-edge and challenging field.
The programme is open to graduates of all disciplinary backgrounds and is also suitable for individuals who are looking to start or develop their own businesses.
You will start by learning the basics of marketing, digital marketing and AI in business, before engaging with more specialised topics including digital communications, campaigns and analytics.
The programme aims to help students build the following broad skills:
This module gives an advanced outlook on marketing as a field of inquiry.
It is providing students on the MSc in Marketing with a theoretical foundation of theories and concepts of marketing, which allows them in their subsequent studies to understand and situate more specialised aspects of marketing (e.g.
consumer behaviour, brand management, or business relationships and networks).
Special emphasis is given to understanding current academic debates in the field.
This means students are expected to read articles in leading marketing journals.
This module will give you a basic introduction to research methods for marketing, starting with problem definition and question formulation, continuing onto selecting and designing appropriate research methodology and collecting data in various marketing circumstances, and finishing with essential data analysis with modern tools, and interpretation of that data.
Finally, we will also work on essential tools for putting all of this together: how to communicate these ideas and findings to a broad audience in the form of a research report and oral presentation.
Internet and digital technologies have transformed marketing and  impacted industry from retailing to healthcare.
Companies face the challenge of developing and maintaining their business operations and customer engagement in a constantly evolving digital space.
The key question is how to successfully deploy digital marketing strategies.
What are techniques that companies need to master to make effective use of digital marketing?
This module empowers students with skills and knowledge needed to work as a digital marketing professional after graduation.
The dissertation forms an important part of the assessment of the MSc Marketing Programme, carrying a weighting of 60 credits.
The dissertation involves demonstration of ability to execute a research plan and independent investigation.
The investigation can rely on primary data collected by the student, on secondary data available in the literature, or a mix of both.
The dissertation will reflect skills of formulating research questions, synthesising information and analysing data, drawing insights and conclusions, and written communication.
This module will provide an overview of what AI is and how its applications can benefit businesses on strategic and tactical levels.
Students will learn basic AI applications/algorithms and their limitations as well as utility.
This module interrogates the economic, social and cultural opportunities presented by the digital and platformed economy and its affordances of big data.
In specific terms it provides an overview of the opportunities, risks and ethical challenges of such an economy for organizations, marketers, societies and humanity.
In this module, students will explore the important role of metrics in an organisation's business strategy and its implementation.
Students will learn the principles of business performance evaluation using analytic tools.
The module will provide an appreciative overview of the digital communications landscape and how digital platforms and technologies have/are transformed(-ing) marketing communications and campaigns.
Students will learn to leverage digital channels to create an integrated marketing campaign.
This is an immersive and application-focused alternative to the traditional dissertation.
Students will take part in multiple rounds of a simulation exercise in which they will form groups to operate a fictitious business (based on real-world data).
The aim of this module is to explore the theory and practice of planning, effectively designing social marketing strategy, implementing and evaluating social marketing campaigns, and understanding the theory, uses and impacts of behavioural science and behavioural economics on society for its common good and social justice.
In this course, students will learn the art and science of storytelling as a strategic and tactical language of brand communication to break the information clutter and inform, connect, inspire, persuade and engage the consumers.
Storytelling in the digital age fosters brand-consumer conversation, co-creating deeper symbolic meaning and brand tribes.
This module is designed to expose students to the latest advancements in sustainability issues and research in the marketing discipline.
The module will cover the roots of sustainability marketing as a field of research, and introduce the range of research on sustainability, from the theoretical to the empirical, and from the classic to the current.
The core of this module will be boosting students' ability to integrate sustainability into the theory and practice of marketing.
Readings in each session incorporate theoretical and empirical studies, giving students an opportunity to explore different ways of pursuing answers to current sustainability, CSR and ethical challenges.
Learning outcomes are assessed using a mix of coursework, essays, projects, presentations and, in some cases, exams.
There will be variation across modules, and some are wholly examined by coursework.
Teaching staff will aim to provide students with constructive feedback on assessments.
Compulsory - choice of dissertation or business game.
Teaching will be conducted by research-oriented staff and supplemented, where appropriate, by visiting lecturers with professional expertise.
Students typically have 3 contact hours per week for each module.
Within these three hours, each module has its own pattern of lectures, seminars/classes and other activities.
Students could take part in a range of different teaching and learning activities, including one-to-one tutorials, guest lectures, simulation game(s), computer-lab based activities, group-work, independent studies, research projects and team learning.
Programme Directors: Dr Farrah Arif & Dr Jie Sheng
Dr Farrah Arif, a Commonwealth Scholar, holds a PhD from the University of Cambridge Judge Business School and is a Senior Lecturer at the School of Business and Management at Queen Mary University of London.
Professor Henneberg joined the School of Business and Management in summer 2013.
He's held academic roles at Manchester Business School (MBS), University of Manchester, and at the University of Bath.
His research interests are mainly in the area of business marketing, supply chain management, and business strategy.
He's worked in senior positions as a management consultant with A.T.
Kearney and McKinsey & Co.
Arash Valipour is a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in Marketing at the School of Business and Management.
His research interests include: services marketing, front-line employees, occupational health psychology, B2B marketing and professional services firms.
Teaching is based at Queen Mary’s Mile End Campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
We have invested £105m in new facilities over the past five years, to offer our students an exceptional learning environment.
Recent developments include the £39m Graduate Centre , providing 7,700 square metres of learning, teaching and social space.
“The MSc Digital Marketing programme at the School of Business and Management has been a highly rewarding experience.
It combines academic theory with practical applications, modules like AI for Business and Brand Storytelling focus on emerging areas that are essential for building personal skills and staying competitive in the industry.
The supportive faculty and the opportunity to work with a diverse group of students also made the learning experience inspiring and enjoyable.”
Maki Zhang, MSc Digital Marketing
Graduates of this course will be well-equipped to pursue careers in brand management, digital marketing management, email marketing, SEO, social media management, content strategy and market research.
The School works closely with the Careers Service to support students with finding internships, making applications and preparing for interviews and assessment centres.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/engineering-management-msc:
Part of: Business and Management and Engineering
Prepare yourself for leadership roles in engineering with this industry-focused programme, where you'll learn to navigate the challenges faced by the engineering sector.
You'll be taught how to manage operations, supply chains, systems and resources in an engineering context, while also considering sustainability and ethics.
Graduates of this course should be well equipped to lead engineering companies through changes caused by technological innovations, economic volatility and resource availability, using innovation, entrepreneurship and financial expertise.
This programme will cover aspects of management, as well as advanced engineering management concepts that apply across the full breadth of engineering disciplines.
It aims to provide students with knowledge and experience in the management of innovation, finance, operations, strategy, systems, and sustainability, in relation to engineering projects.
The course material includes topics such as process, business model, disruptive, and agile innovation, as well as customer engagement, lean manufacturing, product development, and offshore/onshore manufacturing.
We teach business analytical techniques such as 'Porter's Five Forces,' 'McKinsey 7-S Framework,' 'Boston Matrix (Product Portfolio Model),' and 'Balanced Scorecard.' This enhances your capability to systematically analyse decision-making in engineering businesses.
We intend to inspire your creativity in problem-solving by examining real-world engineering industry problems and global challenges, such as Mongolian air pollution and disaster management in Fiji.
The process of identifying causes and effects in complex situations should increase your confidence in developing ideas and solutions.
Additional activities
Our lecturers work hard to incorporate opportunities for industrial engagement within this programme.
Past Engineering Management students have taken part in activities such as:
This module uses the classical V-model to provide a guide to the characteristics of systems and fundamental principles of systems engineering.
It addresses how a systems approach can be applied to one or more engineered systems contexts as a part of managed interventions into complex real world problems.
Topics include stakeholder analysis, requirements definition, system architecture and concept generation, trade-space exploration and concept selection, design definition and optimisation, system integration and interface management, system safety, verification and validation, commissioning and operations and related/emerging disciplines/topics in Systems Engineering.
This module will introduce several dimensions of ethical design, considering the system life cycle including the impact of end-of-life.
Elements incorporating ethics into effective system design using a modern set of theoretical frameworks including circular economy, planetary boundaries and environmental life cycle assessment will be considered.
The consequential impact of large scale technology shifts to guard against replacing one problem for another will be covered.
The role of meeting and contributing to environmental regulation and policy will be explored and an 'ethical cost benefit analysis' will be introduced that internalises otherwise external environmental costs.
Decision making under a complex array of economic and environmental objectives will be considered via multi-criteria decision analysis.
To be a successful industry leader, it is important to be able to efficiently manage various types of engineering projects.
This module offers essential concepts, tools and techniques of project management, presented through engaging case studies.
By understanding the concepts and analytical frameworks of project management, students will acquire practical knowledge and skills in project management, as well as the ability to conduct 'project risk analysis and management' for analysing recent or ongoing large-scale infrastructure projects.
Understanding how large companies create and maximize value through sophisticated operations and logistics processes is of utmost importance.
This module effectively addresses this need by focusing on various strategic decisions, such as 'make-or-buy', 'offshore versus onshore', 'vertical integration versus horizontal integration', and different manufacturing approaches, including traditional and additive manufacturing processes.
By providing a wide-ranging perspective on strategic considerations and firm structures for manufacturing strategies, the module facilitates students in developing a comprehensive understanding of Operations and Supply Chain Management.
The module's newly integrated approach to Cost Engineering offers students a valuable opportunity to acquire financial accounting expertise by focusing on cost analysis and understanding the anticipated business sales performance within various industries and markets.
By focusing on various cost analysis approaches and incorporating sophisticated analytical methods like stochastic simulation techniques and artificial intelligence, this module provides comprehensive tools for cost control, cost data analysis, cost estimation, and cost management.
For students who aspire to become industry leaders and entrepreneurs in the digitalisation era, this module offers knowledge on interpreting the phenomenon of digitalisation and the digital economy in terms of technology, regulation, and the consumer adoption process.
It also provides insights on analysing rapidly evolving digital businesses and developing successful strategies for traditional businesses seeking to transform digitally.
Specifically, this module allows students to develop a deep understanding of the specific strategies and underlying objectives of highly successful digital companies.
Individual projects are undertaken throughout the year including the summer months, under the supervision of an academic member of staff, with whom there are weekly consultancy meetings.
These will allow you to report on your progress, discuss research and design issues, and plan your future work.
Every module lines up with the others - when you're learning business strategy, you need to know about cost engineering, and you need to know about supply chain operations – so you keep adding to your knowledge.
Guest talks from people in industry demonstrate the importance of what you're learning.
It's also really nice experience getting to also explore all these different industries: it was cosmetics, it was construction, it was a scientist, a politician.
It's different virtues and different people.
It opens up different perspectives and you get a very broad approach towards what you want to do.
Rohan Aparajit, Engineering Management MSc, 2025
The School of Engineering and Materials Science conducts high-quality research in a wide range of areas.
This research feeds into our teaching at all levels, ensuring you share in the latest research and knowledge.
You will take part in a range of in-person learning activities, such as problem-solving classes, workshops, lectures and seminars.
Study materials will also be provided for self-directed learning.
You will often work in teams to solve problems, enabling you to learn to manage the team's resources whilst investigating broader engineering management challenges.
PhD, BEng, CEng, MBA, MSc, MEd, PGCE, MIMechE, MCMI, GMBPsS
Raza is a Chartered Engineer with expertise across design, production, processing, project management, research and development, and consultancy.
Prior to working in universities, Raza gained 14 years industrial design experience in the UK, Europe and Middle East, working on capital investment projects in the gas, chemicals and petroleum industries, at a senior level.
BA, MSc, PhD, SFHEA
I joined the School of Engineering and Materials Science in 2004, to teach business and management modules.
I hold a BA in Economic History from the University of Sussex, an MSc in Science and Technology Policy from the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU), University of Sussex, and a PhD in Innovation from Brunel University.
The originality of my PhD attracted the attention of a publisher, Palgrave MacMillan, and was turned into a book titled 'Creating High Technology Industries: National Systems of Innovation'.
Dr Jae-Hwan Park has substantial experience in academia and the technology management industry.
He holds a PhD in Technology Management from the University of Cambridge.
Prior to joining Queen Mary, he held positions at the University of Middlesex, where he taught in the business school, and the University of Leicester, where he was Deputy Director of the Engineering Management MSc programme.
He has been involved in many funded research projects involving the UN, various countries and leading multinational enterprises.
BSc, MSc, PhD, FHEA
Chen was one of the first researchers to investigate the trade-off between taxi time and fuel consumption in airport ground movements, and proposed the Active Routing (AR) concept.
He leads a million-pound EPSRC-funded AR research project.
He’s also published more than 50 scientific papers.
MA, MSci, PhD, FHEA, MIMMM, MIOP
Dr Fenwick holds a Royal Society University Research Fellowship to work on low dimension crystalline materials and conducting polymers for thermoelectric devices.
He is an expert in processable semiconductors such as conducting polymers, halide perovskites and 2D materials.
He develops these materials and characterises them in devices such as LEDs and thermoelectric generators, studying how the materials and interfaces affect device performance.
He uses low embodied energy processing techniques, such as inkjet printing, to manufacture the devices.
Sara Hajikazemi holds a PhD and MSc in Project Management and a BSc in Electrical Engineering.
She has extensive experience in teaching, research, and engineering project management across industries such as oil and gas, construction, manufacturing, and healthcare.
Hajikazemi has published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at conferences and business workshops worldwide.
Her research focuses on performance management, early warning systems, and sustainability in project management.
We offer an excellent range of experimental and computational facilities and resources.
View our facilities using our virtual tour.
Teaching is based at the School of Engineering and Materials Science on Queen Mary’s main Mile End campus , one of the largest self-contained residential campuses in the capital.
Researchers within the School also have access to other specialised research facilities elsewhere at Queen Mary, such as Nanoforce and NanoVision .
Our Mile End campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s other facilities, such as the Senate House library.
At the end of this degree, you will be well-equipped to pursue management roles in the engineering and technology sectors.
Typical roles for an engineering management graduate include:
You will benefit from the strong industry links we have fostered through our research collaborations, Industrial Advisory Board , and regular hosting of industry speakers at seminars and conferences.
Our Industrial Liaison Forum also gives you the chance to network with our industrial partners and build your professional contacts while at university.
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a STEM subject (Physical, Chemical and Biological Sciences, Engineering, Mathematics, Information Technology, Computer Science, etc).
Other education backgrounds can be considered subject to demonstrating satisfactory knowledge of mathematics.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/entrepreneurship-and-innovation-management-msc:
In a highly competitive global environment, entrepreneurship and innovation are key methods for businesses to ensure success and establish competitive advantage.
Our Entrepreneurship and Innovation MSc programme aims to equip students with an advanced understanding of both small and large organisations, their management, and the changing external context in which they operate.
You will learn to think critically about new venture creation and the innovation process, and reflect on how to become an entrepreneurial leader.
This programme aims to help students to develop an understanding of:
The course material aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills needed to assist with managing the innovation process in companies.
You will use critical frameworks such as PESTLE to analyse businesses at local, national and international levels.
Innovation is an essential drive of a firm's competitiveness.
The module New Product Development and Business Ecosystems enables students to analyse innovation processes within complex ecosystems, from the definition of a new product concept to the involvement of suppliers, partners and end-users in developing new product/process architectures.
Students will analyse the organisational implications and challenges deriving from the involvement of partners, supplier and end-users in new product development, through a blend of theoretical and case study based approaches.
This module will investigate and discuss leading change in organisations from both a theoretical and practical perspective.
Marrying theory and practice will allow students to critically reflect on organisational change processes through both a scientific and practical lens and to apply their knowledge directly to real world cases and practices.
Understanding different perspectives, practices and challenges of leading change will also contribute to students' employability and their personal development.
More specifically, how they can become both an effective and a responsible future contributor to organisational change.
This module will address the challenges and opportunities posed by digital economy.
This module will be offered as compulsory module for Digital E&I pathway.
It will give students an overview of Innovations in digital economy and Industry 4.0, digital business model innovation, value creation through Industry 4.0 technologies , managing digital transformations and designing digital strategy to effectively manage innovations in digital economy.
Students will be encouraged to think critically on the social impact of digital technology and the complex interactions between digitalisation and the society at large.
This module will address the social challenges and opportunities and how social enterprise should offer solutions to such challenges and create social value from such opportunities.
It will give students an overview of social entrepreneurship and social value creation.
It will equip students with a strong understanding of foundational theories of entrepreneurship, innovation, social problems and policy.
This module will introduce students to key concepts in the historical development of social enterprise and innovation and to its changing role in society and the economy.
Furthermore, this module will also discuss social value creation in digital economy.
One of the core elements of entrepreneurship and economic leadership is competitive advantage via innovation by understanding the industry and firm dynamics of technological innovation.
Issues within the context of globalisation, development and digitalisation are covered as a strategic process, beginning with assessing the context and  moving on to the formulation and implementation of innovation strategies by examining  strategic dilemmas within innovation (e.g.
standards battles and design dominance, timing of entry, choosing innovation projects, collaborative innovation strategies and the benefits of protecting or opening up innovation for competitive strategy).
The capstone project for the MSc in Entrepreneurship and Innovation will allow students to integrate and apply their cumulative learning in a practical, real-world context.
This project challenges students to either develop a new venture, scale an existing business, or create an innovative solution to a complex problem.
The project emphasizes creativity, strategic thinking, and practical implementation, mirroring the challenges faced by entrepreneurs and innovators in the field.
This module will introduce students to those aspects of law that are relevant to business operations by examining selected issues and fundamental principles that underlie the law of contract and company law.
In particular, this module will deal with creating commercial contracts, contractual terms, effect of exemption and unfair clauses, remedies for breach of contract, corporate personality & limited liability of shareholders, corporate constitution and corporate management, managerial accountability & directors' duties, shareholder rights & remedies and comparative corporate governance.
This module will explore new social and green financial instruments and investment strategies that seek to deliver on both shareholder returns and sustainable development goals.
It will cover trends and models including social and green finance, impact investing, blended finance, public private partnerships, microfinance and social impact bonds.
We will draw on real-life case studies from the Global North and the Global South to examine their potential for contributing towards sustainable development and low-carbon transition objectives across different contexts.
You will be assessed through a mixture of formal examinations and coursework in your taught modules.
You will undertake more self-directed work in completing your dissertation.
This can be a practice-oriented project of your choice, on a company or industry you choose.
This programme has been developed by expert academics, many of whom are practising entrepreneurship professionals.
In addition to attending lectures led by academics, you’ll gain invaluable insights from guest speakers and develop communication skills through taking part in interactive seminars and lively group discussions.
You’ll take an active role in your own learning by reading designated material, producing written assignments and completing projects.
Dr Dar’s research investigates the juncture between measurement and culture, and governance and accountability structures.
She has worked with Mind, Oxfam, Save the Children and CARE International on a variety of issues.
Professor Krummaker is an experienced management scholar and leadership expert.
He holds visiting positions at several other European Universities and is an executive trainer, coach and consultant.
Stefan publishes in international journals and books, and presents his findings at renowned conferences and in companies.
Dr Saqib Shamim's research interests include innovation management, digital transformations, dynamic capabilities and strategic alignment.
He has published in journals such as the British Journal of Management, Information and Management; International Business Review; International Journal of Human Resource Management, International Journal of Hospitality Management, Technology Forecasting and Social Change, and Computers in Human Behaviour, among others.
Dr Zhang’s research interests are entrepreneurship, innovation and strategy with a focus on digital and high technology sectors.
She is a HEA fellow and has considerable teaching experience.
She has been an invited speaker at OECD, NESTA, Technology Strategy Board and AOM.
A postgraduate degree in Entrepreneurship and Innovation offers a competitive advantage to a business career in a globalised environment.
Innovation is vital in helping companies to gain competitive advantage and to survive challenging economic periods.
Graduates who are equipped to assist with managing the innovation process will be highly sought after.
Alumni from this course are working in management, leadership and consulting roles, and some have also started their own businesses.
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/global-business-and-sustainability-msc:
Sustainability is the most significant business challenge today.
Learn how to drive sustainable change in business, government and civil society organisations around the world.
MSc Global Business and Sustainability is an innovative programme designed to equip you with the cutting-edge knowledge, critical thinking and practical skills needed to tackle today’s most pressing sustainability challenges.
Explore how different dimensions of sustainability including climate change, racial justice, gender equality and human rights intersect in strategies for business sustainability across the globe.
Learn about emerging strategies, technologies, and collaborative efforts that link business activities with social and ecological sustainability.
Examine how global inequalities and development trajectories influence the capacity of different regions to transition to a sustainable economy.
MSc Global Business and Sustainability offers a unique and enriching learning experience designed to enhance both your academic journey and professional development.
Central to the programme are two linked Foundation modules running over two semesters, where you'll engage with conceptual issues, critical thinking skills, mixed methods training and collaborative group work.
These modules will equip you with a core skill set for addressing real-world sustainability challenges and foster a strong sense of community among your peers, helping you build sustainability-oriented professional networks for your future career.
Engage with key topics such as
Alongside the Foundation modules, you'll take specialised modules including Global Governance and Sustainability Transitions, Eco-Business Strategy and Global Supply Chains, and World Economy and Development in the first semester.
In the second semester, you'll explore Sustainable Finance, the Business of Climate Risk, and a chosen elective, culminating in the submission of your dissertation in the third semester.
This comprehensive structure is designed to provide you with both the theoretical knowledge and practical skills needed to lead in the field of global business and sustainability.
Read more about the programme.
How are climate-related and environmental risks affecting - and going to affect - the world?
And importantly, the world of business?
This module will equip students to understand and critically engage with anthropogenic climate change as an issue that presents new and compounding risks and challenges to businesses, workers, and society at large.
The course will cover climate change and its entangled relationship between natural resources, biodiversity, and processes of commodification,  and  in the context of how firms and the wider communities adapt and mitigate these risks.
This module engages with the institutional, theoretical, strategic and ethical dimensions of global sustainability transitions.
Students will learn the history of international institutions such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the United Nations Climate Convention and critically reflect on their role in shaping the global policy context in which sustainability is pursued.
Competing approaches to sustainability transitions, such as green growth, degrowth, the circular economy and Green New Deals are explored and compared in terms of their implications for state/business/civil society collaboration and appraised in terms of effectiveness, feasibility and justice.
This module explores and debates the embeddedness of business in the Earth System.
Students examine key relations between corporate strategies and the environment by introducing topical issues in climate change and biodiversity loss and examining emerging eco-business strategies in industries that are foundational to societies and economies across the planet (e.g.
food, energy, transport).
In examining these industries students will evaluate current consumption and production patterns and their environmental effects, critically appraise a range of eco-business strategies, develop  innovative strategic thinking on political-economic challenges specific to each industry, and appraise the ways in which businesses can help build liveable futures based on intergenerational justice.
The dissertation forms an important part of the assessment of the MSc Global Business and Sustainability Programme, carrying a weighting of four modules (60 credits), i.e.
The dissertation requires a demonstration of ability to carry out an original research plan and independent investigation into an area of interest.
The investigation can rely on primary data independently collected by the student, on secondary data already available in the literature, or a mix of both.
This module is the first in the two-part Foundations series running in Semesters A and B.
It introduces a range of key concepts and theories essential to understanding the relationship between global business and the diverse challenges of sustainability and climate change across the globe.
The module explores this relationship by focusing on four themes: Business and the Sustainability Challenge, Power and Institutions, Markets and Corporations, and State and Civil Society.
The module draws on a range of case studies, showing how theory can be applied to real world business and sustainability challenges.
This module is the second in the two-part Foundations series running in Semesters A and B.
It provides students with methodological approaches towards addressing diverse challenges of sustainability from both research and business perspectives.
The module will engage with materials from Foundations 1: Conceptual Models for Business and Sustainability to unpack epistemological and ontological issues and reflect on methodologies used.
It will explore the various steps in conducting robust research on sustainability (e.g., literature review, data collection techniques, data analysis).
The module is designed to aid students' progress towards their final programme assessment.
You will be assessed through a mixture of traditional and non-traditional methods during the programme.
Your dissertation can be either practice based, involving independent empirical research in a business or other organisation, or theory-based, drawing on critical analysis of existing business sustainability strategies and frameworks .
Throughout your dissertation process, you'll receive close guidance from individual supervisors to ensure your work is impactful and relevant.
Study in an engaging and dynamic learning environment that combines lectures, workshops, peer-to-peer learning, dissertation supervision and independent research and study.
You’ll be taught by academics who are experts in their fields, including global supply chains, water management, sustainable finance, energy, agriculture, infrastructure, digital technologies, corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.
You’ll also hear from guest speakers in businesses and organisations including Friends of the Earth, EY, LUSH Cosmetics, B Lab, the Trade Justice Movement and the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organisation, and have the opportunity to attend relevant events and seminars in Queen Mary's Centre on Labour, Sustainability and Global Production.
Programme Co-directors
​
Vincent Guermond is an economic and development geographer.
His research and teaching interests are in the areas of the geographies of digital economies, finance and debt, climate adaptation, migration and development, and social reproduction.
Gerard Hanlon is Professor of Organisational Sociology in the School of Business and Management and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Through his Academy Fellowship, Gerard is working with New City College to examine how non-traditional university students (eg those who have taken BTEC, or the new T-Level qualification) learn, what they learn, and how this experience enables them integrate into university.
Szilvia Mosonyi is committed to impactful research and actively participates in projects directed towards practitioners.
She has published key reports for the UK Parliament and the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI).
Lecturer in Business and Society
Jessie is a Lecturer in the Department of Business and Society and a Fellow of the Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences (IHSS).
Her research explores elite and corporate philanthropy, social finance and the changing role of the private sector in international development, focusing particularly on Brazil.
Our location, in the heart of London, offers a rich cultural environment.
Graduates of the MSc Global Business and Sustainability program are well-equipped for diverse career paths across various sectors.
With a strong foundation in sustainability and global business practices, you can pursue roles in the public, private, and third sectors, including:
These roles allow you to make a meaningful impact on global sustainability challenges, driving positive change across industries and regions.
Maddie Harris, Senior Ecosystem Analyst, Joint Nature Conservation Committee
A 2:1 or above at undergraduate level in a Business, Humanities or Social Sciences subject.
Graduates in other subjects who meet the academic level and also have professional experience in business sustainability or an area of sustainability directly related to their programme of study may be considered on an individual basis.
Other degree subject holders who meet the academic level and have studied sustainability in their degree, for example in their final dissertation project, may also be considered.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/heritage-management-ma:
Part of: Business and Management and History
The MA in Heritage Management is designed to create future heritage sector leaders with the ability to address the managerial, intellectual, cultural, social and technical challenges of maintaining cultural heritage sites.
The course combines business and leadership studies with integrated work experience placements with Historic Royal Palaces (HRP), allowing students to learn from leading thinkers and practitioners in the heritage sector.
This course can be studied full-time or part-time.
The deadline for Home applicants is Friday 11th July.
The Heritage Management MA aims to provide students with an advanced-level understanding of the theory and practice of heritage management.
You will study the principles that provide the basis for successful heritage management, including governance and legislation, operational models, strategic planning and delivery, management theory, resource management and income generation.
You will build knowledge and understanding of the principle drivers of change and opportunities for innovation in the cultural heritage sector, particularly those that support widening access to heritage.
You will have the opportunity to select optional modules from schools within Humanities and Social Sciences, to hone in on your areas of interest.
As part of the course, you will have the opportunity to undertake work placements across disciplines including:
Please note: students will need to cover return travel to Hampton Court Palace once a week during semester.
This module will provide the theoretical basis for understanding heritage from a range of cross-disciplinary perspectives.
It will address the relationships between heritage, history, and memory in theory and practice, exploring heritage on personal and collective scales, the politics of heritage, and the materiality of heritage sites and objects alongside intangible heritage in the form of testimony and stories.
The module will explore the ways in which different understandings of heritage inform practice in the heritage sector, from community archives and heritage projects to museums, historic-houses, and palaces.
Academic rigour and applied professional theory introduces students to the actual practice of heritage management at historically renowned sites and coordinated by Historic Royal Palace's Programme Director with masterclass sessions by other specialists from within HRP.
Possible visits to  heritage organisations are planned.
A combination of classroom-based discussion from readings, site visits and Masterclasses with HRP staff will take a `critical practice' approach connecting QMUL compulsory module themes to HRP case studies.
HRP placement students experience four key areas of heritage management practice learning professional skills, knowledge and essential experience through engagement with sector leaders.
Critical skills applied to practice areas showcases their own professional capabilities by forming networks.
Students have the opportunity to present lessons learnt to professionals and academics, thus promoting career planning and employability.
This important module requires a demonstration of ability to carry out an original investigation into an issue of interest relevant to the content of the MA Heritage Management.
The process should reflect skills of formulating research questions, synthesising/analysing data, drawing insights and conclusions, and written communication.
Students are guided through the dissertation process by one or more supervisor/s (including HRP academics).
To prepare them for the dissertation, students are required to take the compulsory Research Design & Methods module (GEG7135).
Dissertation in Heritage Management.
"One of the highlights of the course was the placement opportunities with Historic Royal Palaces.
These placements were varied and immersive, ranging from curatorial work to PR and gardens.
This breadth provided me with a comprehensive view of the heritage industry and deepened my understanding of its day-to-day operations.
It also gave me the confidence and practical skills necessary to pursue a professional career in museums and heritage organisations."
Brian Cheung, Visitor Experience Assistant/Group Bookings Coordinator at Leighton House Museum, MA Heritage Management Graduate
You will gain invaluable insight from guest speakers and develop communication skills through interactive seminars, presentations and lively group discussions with your peers.
Professor Davis is Director of Heritage Management at Historical Royal Palaces, and has published widely on British, German and European history, international relations and heritage.
Graduates of this course will be well-placed to pursue careers in the arts, culture and heritage sectors.
Heritage Management MA alumni have gone on to work in communications, volunteer coordination, business development and public engagement positions in a range of museums, historic organisations and charities.
"Doing the Masters course fostered and nurtured my interest in the heritage industry.
Through a mixture of teaching and on-site placements, the course guided me to discover which field best suited my interests and skills.
As a result of this, I have been able to pursue a career in collections, which has led me to work firstly for the National Trust and now at Brooklands Museum, a motor and aviation museum."
Charlotte Brooks, MA Heritage Management Graduate
Meeting the required grades on completion of this programme will provide a pathway to study MA Heritage Management.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/innovation-and-enterprise-mres:
The Innovation and Enterprise MRes is a pre-doctoral training programme designed to provide a critical, research-led approach to the study of innovation and enterprise.
The programme will provide advanced training in the skills needed for research careers and doctoral-level study in business innovation.
The School of Business and Management is a member of the King's College London/Imperial College London/Queen Mary ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, which offers high quality training to doctoral students as well as +3 and 1+3 studentships.
This 12-month MRes combines core taught research methods modules with optional subject-based modules, and submission of a thesis.
On this programme you will examine:
You'll also have the opportunity to acquire methodologies and techniques for undertaking, analysing and writing up academic research, and carrying out applied or practitioner research in the areas of business and management.
You will expand your professional network by interacting with students from King’s College London and Imperial College, as part of the training offered by the London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS-DTP) .
The dissertation forms one third of the entire Programme and requires the ability to carry out an original investigation into an area of interest.
It should reflect skills of formulating research questions, synthesising and analysing data, drawing insights and conclusions through written communication.
Students will be guided through the dissertation process by a supervisor.
Students are required to take the DTC modules in the first and second semesters.
The module provides you with advanced research skills, including the ability to select and use relevant resources effectively and to devise research questions appropriate for postgraduate research.
You will develop the capacity to undertake independent guided research at postgraduate level.
This module teaches you to use advanced quantitative skills appropriate for postgraduate research.
Further, you will be able to analyse, interpret, critique and replicate published research using quantitative research methods and will acquire sufficient technical competence using SPSS to perform a range of quantitative techniques in your own research.
This module takes a critical approach to Brand Management, reviewing key concepts through case studies.
In so doing, it approaches the field of branding through global and comparative perspectives while interrograting key concepts through intercultural vantage points.
The module aims to introduce students to concepts and practices related to managing in a globally volatile, complex, dynamic environment within which organisations, national and international institutions and individuals interact.
The elective is designed to be an advanced global strategic management course presenting material that is highly contemporary.
This course provides balanced global strategic insights along with proven practical business frameworks and prepares you to respond quickly to today's challenging global environment.
This module provides an outlook on marketing as a sub-discipline of management studies.
It offers students (MSc in Management and Management and Organisational Innovation) a theoretical foundation of marketing concepts (e.g., consumer behaviour, pricing, product management, branding) and different ways that these concepts can be integrated within the broader field of management.
Special emphasis is given to understanding practical implications of marketing and consumer behaviour theories.
Optional modules can be chosen from a range of PGT programmes within the School of Business and Management.
The range of modules on offer in any year will depend upon staff interests and availability.
Students will be expected to attend and participate in the School's PhD research seminar series, as well as the School's annual symposium.
Modules are typically assessed through a combination of coursework and final examinations.
There is considerable variation across modules, and some are wholly examined by coursework.
Teaching is conducted by research-oriented staff (complemented where appropriate by visiting lecturers with professional expertise), who will combine professional knowledge of their subject with a critical attitude to its delivery.
Students typically have three contact hours per week in each module.
Within these three hours, each module has its own pattern of lectures, seminars and other activities.
Professor Ning provides advice to the state-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), State Council of China.
He is an expert on innovation, foreign direct investment, and state-owned enterprises.
Gary Schwarz is Professor in Public Management and Strategy and Director of the Public Management and Regulation Group.
The campus is 15 minutes from Central London by tube, where you will have access to many of the University of London’s facilities.
This programme is well-suited to students wishing to pursue an academic career in business and management research.
It would also suit those seeking to undertake, commission or manage research in the commercial, public, or voluntary sectors.
This programme is an approved pathway for ESRC funding, which could cover the costs of your MRes and a PhD, should you wish to pursue doctoral study.
A 1st class degree at undergraduate level in any subject.
A satisfactory research proposal that fits with research interests of staff in the School of Business and Management is also required.

New sentences found on https://qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/coursefinder/courses/intellectual-property-law-ip-reg-pgcert:
The Intellectual Property Law Postgraduate Certificate is exclusively designed for trainee Patent and Trade Mark attorneys.
The programme allows you to study introductory and advanced intellectual property (IP) Law, technology and practice as well as become acquainted with the policies affecting these laws under the guidance of leading scholars and practitioners in the field.
The PGCert is an intensive 13-week programme designed exclusively for trainee patent and/or trade mark attorneys.
Trainees who successfully complete this programme will gain professional accreditation from the Intellectual Property Regulation Board.
Intellectual property law has become an interdisciplinary field comprised of law, engineering, medical science, economics, and numerous other fields.
This PGCert focuses on many of the practical aspects of patents, trade marks, designs and copyright.
Lectures delivered by highly acclaimed patent and trade mark practitioners will complement the in-depth academic treatment of the subject matter.
The objective of this programme is to provide you with a broad and holistic perspective of intellectual property law and offer you a balanced appreciation of the wider range of matters which modern intellectual property practice involves, which will inform your future practice.
This course is accredited by the Intellectual Property Regulation Board (IPReg), the Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys (CIPA) and the Chartered Institute of Trade Mark Attorneys (CITMA) and is recognised as a foundation exempting programme by these organisations.
This Certificate programme commences in early September and is taught over one semester.
Teaching starts on in September with a one-week intensive course covering the Fundamentals of English law and Professional Ethics.
This is taught Monday-Thursday usually with two classes per day.
Weekly lectures commence the week after.
Teaching runs over one semester and contains 4 compulsory modules.
Teaching is usually on 3 set days a week.
Students can apply for a module exemption in respect to following module under the criteria set out below.
To qualify students must have, within the last 5 calendar years-January 2020 onwards-, obtained a Law Degree (LLB min 2:2) awarded by a UK Higher Education Institute, or a law qualification recognised by the Law Society or the Law Society of Scotland for the purposes of practicing as a solicitor in England and Wales or in Scotland (LPC/GDL etc).
Students with agreed exemption will not have to attend the Law element of the module but will still be required to attend the Professional Ethics element and the assessment for this part of the module.
For an application form, please contact: pglaw-enquiries@qmul.ac.uk .
The closing date for the receipt of completed applications and evidence is Friday 1 August 2025.
Please note that no applications will be accepted after this deadline.
The total fee for the Certificate will be reduced should the exemption be granted.
For 2024 the fee reduction was £1,500 (this is subject to change for 2025 entry).
If you require further information, please contact: pglaw-enquiries@qmul.ac.uk .
View the draft teaching timetable for the Intellectual Property Law (IP Reg) PGCert 2025-26 academic year [PDF 226KB] (please note that timetables are a live document and will be updated until 2nd September 2025).
You will be assessed by a range of methods which will be fully explained in your student pack available during the induction activities.
All taught modules will be assessed in the January exam period.
Exact assessment information for each module will be explained in your induction pack.
View the Intellectual Property Specialist Programmes - exams dates and related details [PDF 285KB] .
You will be taught by distinguished lecturers and practitioners within the field of intellectual property.
Working with these experienced professionals will enhance both your skills and your professional network.
Teaching will be delivered through a mixture of formal lectures and occasional tutorials.
The tutorials are designed to generate informed discussions around set topics, and may involve student reviewing past exam questions and group exercises as well as open discussions.
Apart from the module convenors, a team of staff members will be available to assist you with your queries.
Called to the Bar at Lincoln’s Inn (Barrister)
Dr Christou is a consultant on human rights, transnational law and governance, CSR, EU law, rule of law, international law, transitional justice, the link between human rights and commercial law, energy and natural resources law, legal reform, the Commonwealth and the law’s response to globalisation.
LLB (Athens); LLM (Lond); LLM Eur (Munich); Dr jur (Munich)
Dr Chronopoulos is a member of the Athens Bar.
He researches intellectual property and competition law.
His recent publications are related to trade mark law and include “Strict Liability and Negligence in Copyright Law: Fair Use as Regulation of Activity Levels” in the Nebraska Law Review.
BA (Hons), Dip.Ed., LLB, SJD (University of Sydney)
Dr Evans’s research concerns the impact of economic globalisation on the law of international trade and intellectual property.
She is engaged in consultancy and capacity building work, most recently as a member of the UN Economic commission for Europe Team of Specialists on Intellectual Property.
Nina O'Sullivan is a Partner and Head Knowledge Lawyer in the Innovation Department focussing on Intellectual Property and Data Protection.
She has extensive experience of intellectual property (IP) litigation and protection, data protection and related fields, and has a particular interest in the life sciences, TMT, betting & gaming, and retail & luxury sectors.
As the Department's Professional Support Lawyer, Nina provides the team and our clients with up to the minute information, guidance and training on developments in IP and data law and practice, and the implications for their business
LLM and PhD (Queen Mary)
Professor Johnson is the Professor of Commercial Law at Cardiff Law School.
His main area of interest is intellectual property law.
He is a practising barrister at the Intellectual Property Bar.
He is an author of leading texts such as The Modern Law of Patents, among many others.
Ashley Roughton is a barrister with 31 years of experience, specialising in technology-focused areas of intellectual property law.
In addition to their legal practice, Ashley Roughton is a member of the Division of Immunity and Infection at University College London, the Centre for Commercial Law Studies at Queen Mary University of London, and serves on the Council of AIPPI.
MA, DPhil, CPA, EPA, FRSC, CChem, CSci
Teaching design law and professional ethics on the Intellectual Property Law Postgraduate Certificate, MSc Intellectual Property, and Trade Mark Law and Practice Postgraduate Certificate courses.
Darren is a patent attorney and partner in the firm EIP, where he is Head of Knowledge.
Before entering the patent profession his academic background was in chemistry, with his postgraduate study at the University of Oxford and post-doc at the Tokyo Institute of Technology focusing on synthetic organic chemistry.
LLB, LLM (Queens, Belfast)
Mr Gavin Sutter is an international voice in media law.
He established, manages and teaches on the LLB and LLM Media Law courses at Queen Mary, as well as writing extensively in the field.
Mr Sutter is also Chair of BILETA (British and Irish Law, Education & Technology Association) and sits on the advisory board of Communications Law Journal.
Dr Jasem Tarawneh is Programme Director for Management of Intellectual Property Law MSc, Trade Mark and Practice PGCert, and the Intellectual Property PGCert.
Prior to joining Queen Mary, he lectured at the University of Manchester.
He also worked for several years as a corporate lawyer and arbitrator in Europe and the Middle East before joining academia.
Jasem has a number of publications in his areas of research interest, including intellectual property, international dispute resolution, and international trade and investment.
Dr jur (University Münster), First and Second German State Examination in Law, LLM (London)
Professor Guido Westkamp is a frequent speaker at international conferences and workshops.
He is a widely-published author and has a large number of visiting positions including posts at the Universities of Münster (Germany), Alicante (Spain), Hong Kong, TU Dresden (Germany), Wroclaw (Poland) and Skopje (Macedonia).
Your module teaching will be at one of the Queen Mary central campus locations: Lincoln’s Inn Fields, Charterhouse Square or West Smithfield .
Administration of the programme is primarily based at the School of Law's postgraduate office on the third floor of the Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS), located in Lincoln's Inn Fields .
September 2025 | 4 months
The School of Law offers a range of scholarships for Law Masters programmes each year.
Full details are made available on the law funding page from October – November each year.
A 2.2 or above at undergraduate level in any subject