# Site: https://www.qub.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 485
# --------

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk:
Visit our Clearing and Admissions support hub for further advice and support.
For 180 years, Queen's University Belfast has shaped lives, driven innovation, and strengthened communities.
Register now for our Undergraduate Open Day on 6 September 2025
We make a global impact through excellence in research and innovation.
Explore our latest research that is helping to shape a better world.
25 August, 2025
22 August, 2025
09:30 - 15:00
10:00 - 12:00
A recent report shows that Queen’s University makes a multi-billion-pound contribution to the UK economy
Friendly, affordable and safe, your student journey begins in Belfast, the vibrant capital city of Northern Ireland.
Queen’s is recognised as one of the UK’s leading research intensive universities and has a global reputation for excellence.
of our research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies:
View Academic Opportunities
View Professional Opportunities
View Research Opportunities
View Administration Opportunities
View Operational Opportunities
View Technical Opportunities
View KTP Opportunities
Applying for a job?
Visit our FAQs
Queen’s University is committed to promoting equality of opportunity to all.
We have created an inclusive culture by establishing staff networks such as iRise (Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic and International Staff Network) and PRISM (LGBTQ+ Staff Network) which help us progress equality.
We also subscribe to Equality Charter Marks such as the Diversity Charter Mark NI in addition to Athena Swan.
For further information on our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion please visit the following web pages:
We welcome and support individuals from under-represented groups such as those from a Black and Minority Ethnic background and those with a Disability or long-term condition.
Also our current staff profile in Queen’s Sport and Childcare shows an under-representation of Protestants and so we particularly welcome applications to these roles from the Protestant community.
Males are currently under-represented in administration roles across the University.
Staff Charter - Our Values
Contact us

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/News:
Queen’s University Belfast has announced that its Body Donation Programme, within the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, reopened on 25 August 2025.
Queen's has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful, and world-leading research changing people's lives for the better.
From environmentalism to refugees, global crises to coronavirus; with over 40 podcasts to choose from, there's something for everyone.
The experts directory is a searchable database of Queen’s academics who are interested in talking to the media about their areas of expertise.
Our Strategic Communications team is here to help you with any enquiries.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events:
Join us live for an insight into life at Queen's and advice on your journey to university.
The University attracts a wide range of distinguished speakers, conferences and debates.
Here we feature some of our event highlights.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Semester-dates:
The approved semester dates for 2018 - 21 can be found below.
The precise timetable of activity varies between programmes and, due to the nature of the course, some courses have additional teaching/placements/professional practise requirements which fall outside of the normal semester dates.
University Closure Days
Examinations Schedule
27 April / 4 May* - 29 May 2026 (*varies by programme)
*Some programmes may offer Independent Study Weeks and a Consolidation Week, which will be communicated to students by the relevant School, as part of the phased implementation of the new academic year structure approved at Academic Council in March 2025.
Full implementation will take place in 2026-27.
A new academic year structure was approved by Academic Council in March 2025 for full implementation in 2026-27.
The below dates have been updated to align with the new structure.
The precise timetable of activity varies between programmes and, due to the nature of the course, some courses have additional teaching/placements/professional practise requirements which fall outside of the normal semester dates which will be communicated to students by the relevant School.
*For pedagogical and/or logistical reasons, some programmes may not offer Independent Study Weeks.
These dates are subject to change and will be reviewed in line with those published by the Education Authority (Halloween and Mid-term breaks).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary:
> University Archive Catalogue
McClay Library > 8am - 8:30pm
Medical Library > 8:30am - 5pm
Biomedical Library > 9am - 5pm
Special Collections & Archives > 9am - 7pm
All Opening Hours | library@qub.ac.uk | How busy is the McClay Library now?
My Account Queen's Online Subject Guides Journals Databases A-Z Inter-Library Loan Request FAQs Online Resources & Services
Upcoming events
Resources & services, Help & Support, Study Locations
Subject Guides, Open Research, Digital Scholarship
Admission and Membership

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/contact:
Ask a question about studying at Queen's and hear back from one of our team.
A range of contacts both inside and outside the University to help you.
Queen's University Belfast University Road Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1NN
T: +44 (0) 28 9024 5133 (during business hours)
T: +44 (0) 28 9097 5099 (outside business hours)

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/contact/Staff-directory:
Please Note :
If you are telephoning from outside the University, you must prefix the telephone extension number supplied with +44 (0)28 9097.
If the person you are looking for is not listed, try their school or unit website or contact the IT Service Desk: itservicedesk@qub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china:
英国女王大学是英国第九古老的大学，也是优秀的罗素大学集团的成员之一。欢迎各位加入英国女王大学1200位在读中国留学生的队伍，为自己在全球就业市场赢得先机。
世界排名前200 英国女王大学综合排名全球198位
英国女王大学的研究强度在英国排名第8；前沿的学术研究与卓越的教学水平相得益彰
学生对校园环境满意度98%
英国女王大学管理学院是英国和爱尔兰的顶尖商学院之一，开设会计学、经济学、金融学、管理学、人力资源管理与营销学等世界一流的课程。
了解更多
如有问题或希望与我们在中国会面，请通过微信与我们联系。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway:
Along with the information and communication you receive from your School or Directorate, the University produces a range of communications to keep staff and students informed about what is happening across campus and within the University community.
We use this blog to think out loud, share our knowledge and experiences and build a connected University community.
Carers Week Reflections: My Experience as a Staff Carer at Queen's
Going to greater heights for Friends of the Cancer Centre
A New Chapter for Student Support at Queen’s: Welcome to Accessible Learning Support
My Queen's apprenticeship experience – Luka Fuchs
Our latest 'Spotlight on our Staff' profiles features Suzanne Walsh.
Suzanne, Talent and Capability Consultant, is a member of the Organisational Development Team within People and Culture, supporting talent and career development opportunities for staff across the University.
A progress update on our Net Zero Plan and sustainability projects
Sustainability at Queen's
Delivering for our Future
Network with colleagues from all over the University, build contacts, share experiences, arrange events and socialise
A Bite of Queen's tours, Staff Wellbeing, Green at Queen's and charity fundraising
The Staff Forum empowers staff to share their views and ideas on how to improve their experience at work
Developed by staff and students, our Staff Charter expresses our shared understanding of what we believe, how we aim to behave and what we aspire to be

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/students:
Access a range of student services virtually and across campus.
Everything you need to get ready for joining Queen's.
3/09/2025
6/09/2025
8/09/2025
The cost of living, that is, the cost of everyday essentials such as fuel, household bills and food, has been and is set to rise further over the coming months.
We've put together a range of information to help you prepare for the increase in daily costs, including tips on budgeting, maximising your income, reviewing your spending and looking after your mental and physical wellbeing.
Cost of Living
Can’t find what you’re looking for or need some assistance?
Our Student Advice team in One Elmwood is on hand to help and you can also chat to our Library team 24/7.
There are lots of ways to seek support or get some advice.
At Queen’s University Belfast, we are committed to providing a vibrant, ethical and sustainable working and learning environment that values all members of our community.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/alumni:
We want to help you keep connected to Queen’s, wherever you are in the world.
As part of the Queen’s global network, login or register your contact details here .
We offer support, information and networking opportunities.
You could become involved in mentoring or volunteering with Queen’s, while there are also opportunities to support the University so that future generations of students will continue to benefit from our world-class research and teaching.
Join our global network.
Help our students with time, funds or expertise.
Get in touch with the team.
Read our publications online.
Find out about networks and benefits.
Tributes to a number of our graduates.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study:
Clearing for 2025 entry is now open.
If you are interested in studying an Undergraduate degree and don’t have a place or are applying after 30 June 2025, you will need to apply through Clearing.
Visit our clearing website and hear from our current students on how clearing at Queen’s was the right choice for them.
Search our available vacancies starting in September and find the perfect course for you.
Clearing 2025
Founded in 1845, we’re proud to be the UK’s 9th oldest university, with a history of brilliant leaders, inspiring thinkers, and remarkable achievers.
With over 200 undergraduate courses and 150 postgraduate routes, Queen's provides a wide range of opportunities to help you shape your future.
Whether you're coming to university straight from school or college, or returning to education after some time, we offer a wide range of courses across various disciplines.
Are you ready to extend your knowledge beyond undergraduate level, specialise in an academic field and gain competitive edge in the job market?
Check out our taught postgraduate study routes.
A research degree offers you the opportunity to develop your skills and prove yourself as a researcher.
We offer a wide range of research degrees, which can be studied on a full-time or part-time basis.
At Queen's, we have over 4,000 international students currently studying with us, and we continue to welcome students every year from the around the world to our campus in Belfast.
Why not join our growing, inspiring and welcoming international student community?
FIND OUT MORE DOWNLOAD A PROSPECTUS
Ranked among the top 200 universities in the world and a member of the prestigious Russell Group, we're passionate about inspiring students (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Our commitment to academic excellence drives us to help you unlock your full potential.
At almost 200 years old, we are one of the oldest universities in the UK.
Founded in 1845, we have a rich history of leading change.
Belfast stands as an inviting capital city that's easy to get around and Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024), making it an ideal location for you to study.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Undergraduate:
At Queen's University Belfast, we offer a wide range of undergraduate courses.
Whether you know exactly what you want to do or you're still figuring it out, you’ll find all the information you need about studying with us right here in Northern Ireland.
Download our latest prospectus
Why choose Queen's
We host a series of live virtual events, on campus events and on demand content to help provide you with the knowledge, confidence and skills to make informed decisions about your future learning and career.
Join us to gain insight into life at Queen's, along with useful information and advice which will guide you through your journey to university.
An undergraduate degree can be life-changing.
At Queen's, we encourage you to explore your passions, make lifelong friends, try new things, and grow as a person.
Discover what it's like to be a student here, so you know what to expect when you arrive in Belfast.
Want to know more about a course you're thinking of applying for, what it's like to live in Queen's accommodation or life in Belfast?
Get in touch with our current students below or you can ask our staff a question about studying at Queen's.
For the ultimate guides to student life in Belfast, check out our student blogs.
You'll discover everything you need to know, from packing tips and moving advice to finding the best coffee and study spots on and around campus.
Studying abroad gives you the opportunity to experience another culture and discover new ways of learning.
As part of our student exchange programme, you can spend a semester or year studying at a university in another country as part of your degree.
We have exchange arrangements with over 200 universities across the world!
Discover study abroad
If you don't get the grades you were hoping for you still have plenty of options.
You can study a foundation degree or other higher education qualification at one of NI's six further education colleges or local institutions then progress to complete your degree at Queen's.
Explore your options

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/postgraduate:
Studying a postgraduate degree allows you to extend your knowledge beyond undergraduate level, enhance your career prospects or take you in a completely different direction.
A taught postgraduate route is perfect for you if you want a structured framework for your studies.
Many of our courses are available on a full or part-time basis meaning you are sure to find something to fit around your life and preferred study style.
Find out more about Masters Degrees
We offer a wide range of research degrees, from MRes to PhD, which can be studied on a full-time or part-time basis.
Find out more about Research Degrees
Immerse yourself in the vibrant culture of Belfast.
From historic landmarks to contemporary arts, and the breathtaking landscapes of Northern Ireland, our city offers a unique backdrop for your academic journey.
Belfast also boasts a low cost of living with affordable accommodation options that you can benefit from when choosing to study here.
Belfast is not just a place of learning, it's a gateway to a growing economy.
Benefit from our strong connections with local businesses and unique opportunities for internships, placement and networking, helping you set the stage for a successful career post-graduation.
Here at Queen's, we support your employability prospects post-graduation through career-focused programs, industry partnerships and a dedicated careers services team.
You will be joining a community where graduates are highly sought after, and where your academic achievements translate into real-world success.
Through your Master’s or research degree, you’ll be supported by internationally-recognised research leaders in your field of study.
The Thomas J Moran Graduate School offers you a world-class intellectual and social hub that connects students from all disciplines to one another, and to mentors, leaders, and employers within the university and beyond.
Find out more about the Thomas J Moran Graduate School
Join us to gain insight into life at Queen's, along with useful information and advice which will guide you through your journey to Postgraduate study.
"My PhD has allowed me to me the shape the future of geothermal energy and build a better future amidst climate change.
It’s a new emerging industry that I plan to now build my career in."
"I've had a lot of inspirational lecturers, had access to great facilities like the Graduate School and the McClay Library, and you always meet someone in the Postgraduate community at Queen's experiencing something similar to you."

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students:
Get a world-class, research-led education built on over 175 years of history and heritage, where the low cost of living and range of scholarships means your money goes further.
Based in the heart of Belfast, a vibrant UK capital city that is safe and easy to get around, and with excellent employment opportunities and support for your future career, Queen’s really is a place like no other.
Download Domestic Prospectus (PDF)
Download International Prospectus (PDF)
Ranked in the top 25 Universities in the UK, we are proud to be a member of the Russell Group – the UK’s Ivy League (Complete University Guide 2025).
Since 1845, our world-leading researchers, pioneering students and inspirational alumni have been making a difference to society in Belfast and across the world and you can join them.
As a Queen's student you will benefit from our rich heritage and prestige in research and education.
When you study at Queen’s, your money goes much further, compared to cities like London or Manchester .
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024) and with affordable accommodation packages from as little as £106 per week in Belfast, you can enjoy a better quality of life than in other cities.
TOP 200 UNIVERSITY IN THE WORLD (QS World University Rankings 2026)
21 SUBJECTS IN THE TOP 200 IN THE WORLD (QS World University Rankings by subject 2025)
99% OF OUR RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT IS WORLD-LEADING OR INTERNATIONALLY EXCELLENT (REF 2021)
OVER 4400 INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS FROM OVER 90 DIFFERENT COUNTRIES (Queen’s Planning Office, 2024)
Queen’s offers a range of generous scholarships for international students for all levels of study and a very attractive GB Scholarship.
We understand that choosing to study away from home is a big financial commitment so we offer a range of scholarships to help make the transition to Queen’s easier for you and your family.
Studying at Queen’s can open doors to the future career of your dreams.
We are dedicated to preparing our students for the future and provide domestic and international students with outstanding career support.
Our successful alumni show what you can achieve with a Queen’s education.
Queen’s offers an extensive programme of tailored courses designed to help you to reach your full academic potential.
You will be able to access advice and guidance from an expert in English for Academic Purposes throughout your journey at Queen’s.
Queen’s is within ten minutes walk of the centre of Belfast, the capital city of Northern Ireland and one of the top ten friendliest cities in the UK (Condé Nast Traveller, Readers' Choice Awards 2024).
It’s a welcoming and fun coastal city, surrounded by beautiful landscapes and within easy reach of all other major cities in the UK and Europe.
Belfast is also in the safest region in the UK (UK Crime Surveys 2022/23).
Queen’s has recently invested £700m to develop its campus and boasts some of the best facilities of any university in the UK.
We have an outstanding network of support services to look after your health, wellbeing, study needs, financial security and career prospects.
“While at Queen’s, I did a summer internship at Bloomberg.
I spent five weeks in Beijing as an Analytics intern and five weeks in Shanghai as a Sales intern, which really expanded my exposure to the real financial market and Bloomberg products.
After the internship, I was returning to Belfast, when I received a call from them offering me a full-time role.
I was so happy that I got my dream job before I graduated.”
“None of the other UK universities I visited offered the same level of facilities and support that is available to students at Queen’s.
The friendly and helpful staff made me feel comfortable straight away on arrival.”
Alumni Success Stories

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/England-Scotland-Wales:
Everything that you need to help make your University decision
Save half of your accommodation costs, and money towards flights
A member of the Russell Group and renowned for our world leading teaching and research.
Featuring a jam packed schedule of social events, 24/7 safety and security, as well as maintenance support.
Don't want to follow the crowd?
You'll love where we take you
Let our current students give you the low down on living in Belfast and studying at Queen’s.
Arrange your own visit and take a tour of our campus and accommodation at a time that suits you.
Your guide to getting here plus information on our lowest student cost of living in the UK.
(Which?
University, 2018).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance:
Are you self funded or externally funded?
Find all the information you need about the fee payment options available to you.
Pay a deposit or your tuition fees in advance
The Funding and Scholarship Finder helps prospective and current students find funding to help cover costs towards a whole range of study related expenses.
See what scholarships you may be entitled to as an international student.
Search our frequently asked questions for answers to common queries.
Information on course costs, cost of living, scholarships and more.
Information on fees and fee payment options for postgraduate taught and research students.
Information on fees, scholarships, payment options and cost of living.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning:
Click on the READY TO ENROL?
ENROL ONLINE button below
Open Learning has moved to a new Flywire payment system for enrolling on our courses.
As part of the payment process your bank may direct you to to a site seeking authorisation for a payment of £0.00.
It is necessary for you to authorise this payment but please note that you will be charged the price of the course/s previously selected (ie.
the full or concession rate/s).
We make decisions on whether or not to run a course seven days before the course start date.
Queen's University has been offering short courses to the local community since the 1850s.
If you would like a downloadable PDF or a hard copy of the current brochure please click on the link below.
Find out how
School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work Queen's University Belfast, 20 College Green, Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1LN Email: openlearning.education@qub.ac.uk Tel:+44 (0)28 9097 3323/3539

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/courses/short-courses:
Set aside a few hours a week to study a short course with us here at Queen’s University.
Whether you aim to develop new skills, explore your interests, or propel your career forward with ongoing professional development, our short courses offer a platform for growth and learning.
No matching records found

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/accommodation:
Find your new home in our university accommodation.
We have options for you to live in a village type setting close to campus or in the city centre and affordable rooms to suit your budget and lifestyle.
If you're joining Queen's through Clearing, we have rooms in Queen's accommodation available for you.
To secure your room, you should submit an application for accommodation at your earliest opportunity.
Available rooms are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis.
Submit an application
Full calendar of events, trips and 24/7 support.
Accommodation located close to campus.
All inclusive package.
Elms BT1 is an ideal choice if you’d like to live in the bustling City Centre, close to shops, cafes and restaurants, but only 20 mins walk or a short bus ride from Queen’s main campus.
Elms BT2 is an ideal choice if you’d like to live in the bustling City Centre, close to shops, cafes and restaurants, but only 17 mins walk or a short bus ride from Queen’s campus.
Elms BT9 is a student village, offering a range of modern, comfortable and secure accommodation just 15 mins walk or a short bus ride from Queen’s campus.
Contemporary style accommodation, Willow Walk offers one, two, three and four bedroom apartments, as well as studio apartments just 15 minutes from Queen’s main campus.
You’re right at the heart of everything in College Gardens and just a two minute walk to Queen’s main campus and right beside some of the best restaurants and cafes in Belfast.
Situated near Elms BT9, Grant House is a great location for those who want the convenience of being close to the centre of student life but with some independence.
It’s just 10 minutes from Queen’s main campus.
Suitable for new and returning postgraduates, Guthrie House is ideally located in close proximity to the main University campus, the Medical Biology Centre (MBC) and the City Hospital.
Mount Charles is located just off Botanic Avenue, two minutes walk from Queen's main campus and right in the heart of one of Belfast’s most vibrant areas.
76 Malone Road is located next door to the Elms BT9 site and conveniently located on a main bus route into Belfast City Centre.
Swanston House is a modern property with studio and ensuite student accommodation that's just 20 minutes walk from Queen's University.
You’re right at the heart of everything in Aster House and just a few minutes walk to Queen’s main campus.
Ideally located, Bradbury Place is only a short distance from Queen's main campus and close to cafes and restaurants on Botanic Avenue.
With our packed social schedule, you will never be bored.
The ultimate list of must-haves, might-wants, luxury items and basic essentials.
So many amazing and memorable moments I had at university happened in university accommodation.
Ciara has lived in BT1 for a year and talks about her experience.
Moving to a new country is an exciting adventure.
You’ll find all the information you need to help you find the accommodation that’s right for you.
We are here to support your wellbeing, help you make friends and really enjoy your experience living with us in Queen's Accommodation
We are registered with The Student Accommodation code, and committed to ensuring high standards of accommodation.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Visit-Us:
If you want to know what it's like to be student at Queen's and live in Northern Ireland, come see it for yourself.
By visiting us, you'll get a feel for our campus, student life in Belfast and much more.
Our open days for undergraduate students take place every June and September.
Book your place at one of our open days now.
You can also sign up to a number of different undergraduate information events happening throughout the year.
Throughout the year, we host a number of in-person and online events which you can join from any location relating to postgraduate study at Queen's.
Missed an event?
We also have on-demand content available.
If you can't make it to one of our open days, you could always book one of our Campus Tours that run on Mondays and Fridays at 10am,12pm and 2pm and are led by our Student Ambassadors.
They'll show you where you'll be studying, where you will live and the facilities you will get to use as part of your student experience.
These campus tours are generic and not subject specific .
We have partnered with AccessAble to develop guides to help staff, students and visitors to get to and around our sites and buildings more easily.
View details about our buildings access, with routes, photos and maps.
Accessibility Information
A big part of university life at Queen's is the city of Belfast.
Find out more about the city of Belfast, what it's like to be a student here, things to do and also things you need to know about living in Northern Ireland.
Life in Belfast

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/graduate-school:
We are delighted to welcome you, not only to Queen’s University, but to your hub for academic and personal growth throughout your postgraduate journey.
Training, development, employability and community opportunities available to you as a postgraduate student this summer.
Each June, we shine a spotlight on the world-leading QUB research with our month-long ' Research Culture Celebration '.
Join in!
The Thomas J.
Moran Graduate School offers a range of facilities to support your studies.
Ask us about events, funding or training programmes or submit a suggestion on how we can evolve our services.
RECEPTION
+44(0)28 9097 2585 graduateschool@qub.ac.uk
Contacts and opening hours
Our five developmental pillars will guide you through your time at The Thomas J.
Moran Graduate School and support your development.
As a postgraduate at Queen’s, you will develop these attributes through our unique combination of specialist disciplinary study and high-level, transdisciplinary skills training.
It’s this combination which makes you genuinely future-ready.
Moran Graduate School, Queen's University Belfast, University Road, Belfast, BT7 1NN
GET DIRECTIONS
+44 (0)28 9097 2585 graduateschool@qub.ac.uk
© Queen's University Belfast 2024

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Campus-and-facilities/Sport:
Since our foundation, sport has played an important part in the Queen’s student experience.
You can be part of our Gameplan.
Whether you are interested in keeping active, trying a new sport, being part of a team or representing your university, you can be part of the Queen’s Sport Gameplan.
Get involved with Queen's sport
The Physical Education Centre (PEC) is the hub of Queen’s Sport.
The state-of-the-art fitness area includes:
The state-of-the-art fitness and exercise facility in our Belfast city centre accommodation includes cardio fitness machine, a multi-purpose training rig, functional training and weights areas.
Fitness classes are also available at BT1 for accommodation students.
Champions have been made, trophies won and accolades heaped onto thousands of students throughout Upper Malone’s existence.
We have heavily invested in our outdoor facilities, and the new Arena Pitches and Clubhouse is the only facility in the UK and Ireland to showcase rugby, Gaelic games, hockey and soccer all at one site, with an additional 16 floodlit grass and synthetic playing surfaces.
The Queen’s Boat House is home to the Men's and Ladies' Boat Clubs, who have an excellent pedigree through performances at Senior and Novice levels throughout Ireland and beyond.
In 2015 the Boat House benefited from an extensive upgrade including new shower areas, crew meeting rooms, a new boat launch pontoon and a motorboat launching slip.
Starting from just £16.50 per month our all-inclusive memberships are flexible and tailored to meet your needs.
We offer peak and off-peak student membership packages with flexible payment options.
Find a membership package to suit you
Queen’s Accommodation Students get free Queen’s Sport membership, including access to BT1 Gyms, PEC facilities, over 100 classes and more.
Queen’s Accommodation Student Membership
Try something new and get fit with friends.
The PEC offers over 75 weekly classes so you can find a class that suits your needs and your fitness level.
Queen’s Sport offers adult and children’s courses such as Climbing, Swimming, Zumba, Kettlebells or Pilates with reduced rates for students.
MyWellness is an App personalised by Queen's Sport staff that will guide and record all your training sessions until you reach your goal.With training programmes, live and on demand classes, challenges and video tutorials all created by the Queen's Sport Fitness Team, the MyWellness App will become your best workout partner.
There are over 50 sports clubs at Queen’s.
These range from the most popular, like rugby, to the most unique, like underwater hockey and quidditch.
Whether you want to continue playing your favourite sport or try something new while at university, join one of our clubs today.
Active Campus is a fun way to try something new while meeting new people.
We empower you to find your level at Queen’s Sport - our range of social, recreational, club sport and physical activity opportunities are open to all abilities.
Connect with other students in an environment where you feel safe, supported and happy to exercise and enjoy sport.
Active Campus
The Elite Athlete Programme places equal emphasis on academia and sporting ambition and offers benefits including academic support, financial assistance, tutoring, media support, physiotherapy, access to Queen’s Sport facilities and bespoke sports clothing.
The programme offers a support package including up to £2,000 per year for tuition fees and £3,000 per year for living and travel costs.
Queen's Sport works with student clubs, governing bodies and alumni networks to develop our sporting academies.
Currently there are five academies - Rugby, GAA, Soccer, Rowing and Hockey - with more than 35 teams and 600 students competing each year as part of our Performance Pathway.
We created these academies to provide a high-performance culture within each sport, but also to promote recreational and community initiatives.
These awards are designed to give top sporting individuals the best opportunity to develop their talent during their time at the University.
They are available to current students who have achieved a high standard in their particular sport.
The scheme offers recipients a comprehensive package including sports science support, free use of facilities, free equipment and financial assistance for the costs of training at such a high level.
Out of 8 UK universities International Student Barometer 2020/21 .
Learn more about our facilities

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/student-blog:
Use the dropdown below to find blog posts on everything from accommodation to clubs and societies, and country-specific information.
View all the latest blogs →
MORE FROM QUEEN'S INSIDER→
View all Accommodation blogs →
View all Belfast and Northern Ireland blogs →
American student Brittany discusses her reasons for moving to Belfast to study a Creative Writing Master’s degree; delves into student life at Queen’s; and provides some top tips for those thinking of following in her footsteps!
Join student Isabella as she takes you along to Belfast Mela Festival, an event that celebrates the diversity of the city.
Postgraduate student May has travelled from Myanmar to Belfast to study Business Analytics at Queen’s University – check out how she spends a typical day at Queen’s Business School and in her student accommodation.
View all vlogs
See more reasons to choose Queen's →
More blogs about Student Life →
More blogs about Studying and Courses →
More blogs about Clubs and Societies →
MORE BLOGS ABOUT COST OF LIVING→
More blogs about Support and Wellbeing →
More blogs about Careers and Global Opportunities →
Check out what's happening on our Official Queen’s University Belfast account.
Follow now

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/courses:
Looking for research opportunities?
Click here to search research degrees, PhD supervisors, and funded projects.
Prepare for your university degree with tailored, academic pathway and English Language programmes from INTO Queen's.
University Preparation Courses

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/student-life:
Queen's University is nestled in one of the world's friendliest and one of the UK's most affordable student cities.
Whether you're looking to get involved with a club or society, a university that offers global opportunities or simply a new city to study in, find out all about student life here at Queen's.
Whether you want to live in the City Centre or in our Student Village close to campus, you can find your new home in university accommodation, with affordable rooms to suit different budgets and lifestyles.
Our accommodation comes with a full calendar of events and trips to help you settle in to university life and make new friends, as well as 24/7 support.
Providing world class research and education facilities where our students and staff carry out their ambitious work is a key priority for the university.
With a £700m investment in a 20-year capital development programme, we are proud to offer some of the finest campus facilities in the UK and Ireland.
Belfast is an inviting capital city, we are known for our friendly welcome and affordability, making it an ideal location for students to study.
The city flourishes as a vibrant hub for great food, culture, arts, shopping and more.
Find out what it's like to live here, things to do, the history of the city and more.
Our campus is nestled in one of the most vibrant districts in Belfast, Queen's Quarter, and is also the heart of our student community.
When you're not in lectures, you can spend your time exploring the beautiful Botanic Gardens, taking a trip to the Ulster museum, hanging out with friends in the Union Bar or walking into the City Centre (just a 15 minute walk from campus).
With over 200 clubs and societies, all of them student-led, there's something for everyone here at Queen's.
The International Food Scene is thriving in Belfast.
There are plenty of places to stock up on your favourite ingredients.
Volunteering will help you meet new friends, have loads of fun, boost your wellbeing and CV, and get a well-earned break from your university work.
Every year, over 800 Queen's students take the opportunity to go outside of Northern Ireland to study or gain work related experience.
Whilst overseas, you'll load up on confidence and independence.
Experience the colour of life elsewhere at Queen's.
Our expert team are committed to ensuring every student has access to the right experiences to develop future-ready skills.
We work to expose students to the right connections and expertise they need during their time at Queen’s and into their early career.
We offer a network of support services dedicated to helping you get the most from your time at queen's, looking after your health, emotional wellbeing, education, study needs, financial security and future career.
As a Queen's student, you'll automatically be a member of the Union along with over 25,000 other Queen's students.
The Union is led by students, for students - here to represent your views and help you get the most out of your time at Queen's.
From talking to like-minded people, to getting support when you need it, you'll find everything you need in One Elmwood.
Having a part-time job could enhance your university experience and make you some extra cash.
You could build confidence, learn valuable skills, make new friends and give your CV a boost.
Many students at Queen's decide to stay at home and make the commute to university, but that doesn't mean you should miss out on other aspects of student life while studying in Belfast.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research:
Researchers at Queen's help tackle the global challenges of our age, changing people’s lives for the better.
We are a world-class international university built on teaching excellence, leading-edge research, innovation, collaboration and engagement.
Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful and world-leading research that has positively changed people’s lives.
Our ambition for 2030 is to further enhance our impact by strengthening our research position and working with industry to broaden our translational impact and innovation, ensuring we deliver high-quality, world-leading research, which addresses local and global challenges.
in the UK for Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Sciences
in the UK for Health and Biomedical Sciences
in the UK for Law
of our research environment was assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
We are proud of our record in working with local communities, businesses and policy makers to improve the lives and livelihoods of those who call Northern Ireland home.
We are committed to continuing to give back through our research locally.
We lead and co-ordinate many projects with communities throughout Belfast and the wider region, conducted with and on behalf of the people.
Read about our research making a difference, in a range of areas such as shared education, healthcare, improving outcomes in disadvantaged communities, dealing with the past and supporting economic growth.
Our local impact
Our research community is a vibrant hub for intellectual development, exchange and collaboration.
We support, develop and nurture outstanding researchers to become research leaders of the future.
Our Fellowship programmes are designed to nurture high-potential early-career researchers, ensuring they are supported to contribute to a diversity of multidisciplinary research.
We are one of the leading UK universities in gender equality and are committed to promoting respect for diversity and inclusion, including greater awareness for LGBT+, racial and linguistic diversity.
Queen’s is a committed signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and holds the EU HR Excellence in Research Award.
Developing Research Leaders Research Culture
Queen’s has a strong track record in innovation and enterprise, turning R&D into economic impact.
We are the UK’s number two University for Entrepreneurial Impact (i2i University Spinout Ranking 2024), based on our effectiveness at commercialising research through spin-out companies relative to funding received.
Our spin-out portfolio has a combined annual turnover of £171 million and has created 2,700 jobs, with half of Northern Ireland’s public companies created at Queen’s, including Kainos Group Plc, Andor Technology and Fusion Antibodies Plc.
Queen’s is ranked in the top 10 universities in the UK for number of spin out companies (Royal Academy of Engineering and Beauhurst, 2025).
We remain one of the leading providers of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) in the UK, engaging with businesses to improve their competitiveness and productivity.
Innovation at Queen's
Our researchers work across disciplines and sectors to address local and global challenges, incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We're making a difference on a global scale, framing our research and collaborations in ways that can contribute to delivering peace and prosperity for our changing world.
Through our research, we strive to change society for the better - whether that is connecting local individuals and communities, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges such as climate change.
Our work towards SDGs
Global research collaborations and academic alliances continue to grow and develop with leading institutions in America, China, India, the Middle East and Asia.
We host industry-led ‘competence centres’ in agri-food and sustainable energy , a state-of-the-art Precision Medicine Centre with Invest NI and the Belfast Health Trust, and the UK’s Innovation and Knowledge Centre for cyber-security (CSIT).
We are a lead partner in the Belfast Region City Deal (BRCD) to drive projects that will foster innovation across key sectors including data science, creative industries, advanced manufacturing and health.
We invest millions in the development of our research facilities to ensure that our staff, students and collaborators have the very best resources to help them in their work.
Our research activity has global impact, and we continue to expand our reach through collaboration, building research partnerships to make a real difference to economies, societies and cultures across the world.
Collaborate with us or lead our research into the future, with access to international funding streams, cutting edge facilities, and professional support.
Postgraduate Researchers at Queen’s undertake projects with real social impact while exploring their passions and progressing in their fields.
Our Graduate School provides a world class postgraduate experience, supporting research students, through a suite of training courses, events, networking, support and skills development.
It provides a vibrant hub for intellectual exchange and collaboration.
Explore our PhD opportunities , research projects , supervisors and doctoral programmes .
More on Postgraduate Research
Building on a track record for societal engagement and real world impact.
Queen’s has a long history of conducting innovative and world-leading research with partners in industry, government, public policy, social and healthcare, the arts and the voluntary sector, across these islands, and around the world.
Our academics' evidence-based research and ideas on the major social, cultural and economic challenges facing society regionally, nationally and beyond allows policymakers to make informed decisions about the most effective and sustainable ways to tackle these challenges, now and in the future.
We engage the public through participatory and collaborative research with communities , as well as the media , events and podcasts .
Policy Engagement
Content displayed on the Research Portal is subject to the following licence arrangements:
Research data management is subject to the following policy:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/research-themes:
We’re committed to making a meaningful impact on the world.
A community of innovators, disruptors and change-makers, we’re working with industry to broaden our translational impact to help tackle the global challenges of our age.
Colleagues across our Schools and Faculties are dedicated to deepening our understanding of diseases, and developing solutions and treatments for them.
The economy of the next 100 years will be a necessarily different one to the economy we experience today.
Researchers at Queen’s are on a mission to make the changing global digital space both safer and faster.
Understanding the relationship between humans and our environment has never been more important.
As a University based in Belfast, we are proud of our longstanding and world leading track record in research relating to peace, identity, culture, conflict and social sustainability.
Sign up to find out more about our research.
Sign up
Our research activity has global impact, and we continue to expand our reach through collaboration, building research partnerships locally, nationally and internationally.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/our-research/global:
We’re proud of our reputation for research – and we’re even more ambitious for its future.
The ninth-oldest university in the UK, Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful, and world-leading research, changing people’s lives for the better.
Informed by UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), today our research culture is primed by investment in areas of research strength , particularly translational expertise, working across disciplines to address local and global challenges such as soil degradation, water scarcity, conflict resolution and climate change.
View Global Research Brochure
We support the creation of international research partnerships and with access to international funding streams, cutting edge facilities, and professional support, we attract the most talented international research staff and students.
A MEMBER OF THE PRESTIGIOUS RUSSELL GROUP (24 leading research-intensive UK universities)
RANKED 13TH IN THE UK FOR RESEARCH INTENSITY (Complete University Guide 2026)
£173M TO SUPPORT GLOBAL RESEARCH ENGAGEMENT From regional, national and global sources.
OVER 1,000 AWARDS Involving international collaboration/funding.
4000 RESEARCH COLLABORATORS WORLDWIDE
To ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all, we’re transforming global health, community well-being, patient care and translational medicine.
Advanced materials, intelligent manufacturing and innovation are leading the way in how we change our economy for the greater good.
Everywhere we look, from our smart phones to our homes, our world is alive with something new.
We’re advancing our understanding of data, intelligence, smart networks, and new technologies.
Our planet is super-heating, sea levels are rising; natural ecosystems, the built environment and adaptability – where will we be soon?
Governance, peace, cohesive and creative communities are just some of the facets that are helping bring us together towards a common humanity on a global scale.
Our GRIs are flagships for interdisciplinary research in areas of major societal challenge.
They bring together a critical mass of excellent researchers from a wide range of disciplines in world-class facilities to tackle some of the greatest global issues of our age.
Global Food Security : Playing a major role in the future of delivering safe, sustainable, and authentic food to the world’s population, and globally recognised for its excellence in research.
Peace, Security and Justice : The Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice examines how societies emerging from violence can establish lasting peace.
Technology Futures : Investigating how to secure, process and safely transmit information created by citizens, enterprise, and government.
Global Health : Addressing diseases that affect populations worldwide like Cancer, Respiratory Conditions, Eye Disease and Diabetic Vascular Complications.
These features showcase a range of our global academic research, working across disciplines and sectors and making a real difference to economies, societies and cultures across the world.
A sustainable model for diabetic retinopathy in the Philippines .
Designing future cities to prevent non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in Australia and te UK .
Addressing the urgent need for gender transformative sexual and reproductive health (SRH) education in South Africa .
Addressing the predictors of risk and resilience for the development of PTSD in Colombia .
View our research showcase for projects tackling global issues, working with diverse collaborators and partners.
Global Research Map
Queen's continues to build on significant European research success.
We have engaged in more than 50 Horizon Europe projects, across 45 countries and in more than 600 collaborations.
Queen's Research in Europe
Belfast is a capital city with a passion for progress – a passion shared by Queen’s University Belfast, with our campus positioned in the beating heart of the city.
Belfast has a long and proud history of industry and innovation, from ship building to linen manufacturing.
Today, the city is an inward magnet for investment and its young, dynamic population and thriving business community drives technological advances, building competitiveness, innovation and prosperity on the global stage.
A thriving UK capital city
ONE OF THE BEST REGIONAL UK CITIES TO START A NEW BUSINESS (Start-up Cities Index, 2017)
THE WORLD’S MOST BUSINESS FRIENDLY SMALL-MEDIUM SIZED CITY (Financial Times fDi Intelligence, 2018)
QUEEN’S RANKED NUMBER TWO IN THE UK FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL IMPACT (i2i University Spinout Ranking 2024)
The University’s central involvement in the £1 billion Belfast Region City Deal (BRCD) further cements our role in supporting and accelerating economic growth in Northern Ireland.
Queen’s, together with Ulster University, is leading on the development of the Innovation strand : a suite of five projects with a common thread of digital innovation , which will receive over £200m capital funding via the Deal.
We are driving projects that will foster innovation and opportunities across key sectors including data science, creative industries, advanced manufacturing and health , and help ensure a talent pipeline of equipped, future ready graduates to meet demand.
Find out more about City Deal
We hope that you will work together with us, in partnership, to make vast advances in global research tackling global issues.
Major partner countries include the USA and several EU nations.
Four Low and Middle Income Countries (LMICs), China, Vietnam, India and South Africa also appear in the list of Queen’s top partner country collaborators.
Get in Touch View Research directory to find collaborators
Global Partnerships
Become part of the next generation of world-class researchers at Queen’s, and access the support and facilities you need to achieve your career ambitions.
Our researchers benefit from a range of development opportunities, enabling you to thrive in your research, advance your career and reach your potential as future leaders.
Access generous funding and awards , defined career pathways, relocation expenses, mentoring and coaching and a range of professional training options.
Our Postdoctoral Development Centre welcomes new research fellows, promotes a positive Postdoc experience and empowers researchers to progress their career.
Queen’s wants to recruit, develop, and nurture outstanding fellows who will deliver world-leading research and become our research leaders of the future.
Our Fellowship academy provides early career researchers with developmental opportunities to support their growth as future research leaders and influencers.
Our Illuminate: The Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowships offer the support and facilities you need to achieve your career ambitions.
Benefits include a pathway to a Senior Lecturer/Reader post at the end of the Fellowship, reduced teaching and admin, excellent relocation expenses, a generous ‘Fellowship Enhancement Award’ from £20,000-£50,000 and funding to recruit a full-time PhD student within the first two years of appointment.
As a Fellow at Queen’s, you will be part of a world- class international university built on teaching excellence, leading-edge research, innovation, collaboration, and engagement, and will play a key role in shaping our future priorities.
You will benefit from membership of the Queen’s Fellowship academy , a comprehensive and bespoke development service that will include access to a Fellows Network, Mentorship Programme and a range of professional training and development options delivered via workshop sessions, online learning, and peer coaching groups.
Queen’s academics work with more than 4,000 worldwide collaborators.
We believe in nurturing and supporting our people to really make a difference in the world.
Colleagues join us from all over the world and experience a beautiful place to live, talented colleagues and full support in achieving career success.
Hear from our International colleagues
View Academic Positions
View PhD opportunities
Academic Experiences

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/our-research/research-explore:
We are a research-intensive university, organised to facilitate and promote inter-disciplinary research.
It is our purpose and responsibility to take on major global challenges, and to find answers that will help to build a better society.
Explore our research across disciplines such as English, Engineering, Business, Law, Creative Arts, Architecture, Food Science, Physics and Nursing.
Our world-leading researchers focus on the development and treatment of new avenues for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of major public health problems that affect millions of people globally.
These medical problems include eye disease, diabetic complications, cardiovascular disease, antibiotic resistance and common lung illnesses such as cancer, asthma, COPD, cystic fibrosis and pneumonia.
Health Research
Our world-leading researchers focus on sustaining a pipeline of world-leading basic science that delivers impact through commercialisation and knowledge exchange.
We work with partners across the University, regionally, and beyond, to transform a dependency on traditional manufacturing into a knowledge-based, data-driven economy.
Influenced by the UN Sustainable Development Goals, we have eight core research topics.
Engineering Research
Our research seeks to better understand and improve the nature of society, culture and the human condition.
We are at the cutting edge of research across the arts, humanities and social sciences.
We share a commitment to achieving impact that seeks to ensure that each person is able to reach their full potential and contribute fully to an open, inclusive, culturally enriched, creative and connected society.
Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences Research

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/our-research/research-excellence-framework-ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is a UK-wide assessment of the quality of research in universities undertaken by expert review panels.
The University finalised its submission to REF 2021 in March 2021.
This encompassed 22 of the 34 UoAs.
Across the submission, 2,267 research outputs were submitted from 1,084 submitted staff, along with 84 impact case studies.
The most recent results have been published in May 2022, and have confirmed our place as a world-leading university.
The results demonstrated our research excellence across a range of disciplines, putting us in the top 20 per cent of all UK universities.
12 May, 2022
Read the press release
REF 2021 presents the results by subject area and quality is graded as follows:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/our-research/strategy:
Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful, and world-leading research that has positively changed people’s lives.
As part of our institutional Strategy 2030 our ambition is to further enhance our impact by undertaking research of the highest international standing that addresses societal and planetary challenges, changing the world for the better.
We will continue to nurture a vibrant research culture, seeded by research led education and built upon curiosity, discovery, innovation, and enterprise, dedicated to social benefit.
Strategy 2030
As part of Strategy 2030 we have developed four key research goals, focusing on the areas which we believe will be central to our success, and the success, growth and well-being of the communities we serve.
STRENGTHEN OUR RESEARCH PORTFOLIO
We will enhance our research culture, investing in areas of research strength and particularly our translational expertise, working across disciplines and sectors to address local and global challenges, incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Our strategic research themes will focus on:
ENHANCE OUR RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS
We will expand our reach through co-operation and strategic collaborations , building research partnerships locally, nationally, and internationally.
We will work with partners to address the shared challenges across these islands, with UK and Ireland-wide initiatives and the ‘levelling up’ regional agenda of the UK Government, where Northern Ireland has so much to offer.
ADDRESS REAL WORLD NEED
We will address real world need and priorities through intensive engagement and co-creation with potential users of research output and innovation across universities, and with business, industry, and governments.
We will enhance our translation through partnership initiatives and specifically capacity and capability, such as the Belfast Region City Deal and the wider Regional Growth Deals.
FOSTER A CREATIVE COLLABORATIVE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE
We will champion a culture that attracts, develops, and nurtures outstanding research talent, inspires our students and rewards excellence.
Our researchers will benefit from a range of development opportunities to enable them to thrive in their research, advance their careers and reach their potential as future leaders.
We will invest in our researchers to develop international excellence from our postgraduate research students , through early career researchers and Fellows , to international research leaders.
A supportive, team centred, ambitious research community, founded in inclusivity and fairness
Objectives
Actions
Foster an inclusive, collaborative, entrepreneurial and supportive research community
Engage in national and international PGR funding opportunities
Enhance researcher excellence across all career stages
Establish a Queen’s Postdoctoral Development Centre
Integrate and improve support, training, and mentorship/coaching along the researcher lifecycle
Evolve the Queen’s Fellowship Academy and deliver the Illuminate Fellowship Scheme
Tailored coaching/mentoring for mid-career researchers
Evolve and embed the new Research Culture Action Plan
Ensure team-based contributions are recognised and rewarded
A dynamic research ecosystem founded on integrity excellence, curiosity, and enterprise
Ensure our research is founded upon integrity, excellence, and ambition
Focus on quality funding to promote sustainability and quality outputs
Enable our research with high-quality infrastructure, systems, and services
Fulfil commitment to Concordat to Support Research Integrity
Support interdisciplinary and disciplinary research structures
Launch an Ideas Forum and institutional Agility Fund
Support infrastructure development
Establish a new Conference Fund
Enhance integration between research and enterprise support services
A collaborative research ethos founded on agile engagement and enduring partnerships locally and globally
Realise more meaningful and enduring partnerships, connecting nationally and globally
Launch a Global Research Action Plan with a focus on delivery against UN SDGs
Responsibly maximise research value and impact, for wider societal benefit, at a local and global level
Support development of linkages with strategic partners
Deliver research and innovation activity in partnership with business and industry
Widen local engagement activities
Embed Research Engagement Hubs and complementary activities
Launch the Enterprise Strategy and Innovation Centre
Deliver next phase of Belfast Region City Deal

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/Our-impact:
Queen’s University has a long history of conducting innovative and world-leading research with partners in industry, government, public policy, social and healthcare, the arts and the voluntary sector, across these islands, and around the world.
Our ambition for 2030 is to strengthen our research position and work with industry to broaden our impact and innovation, ensuring we deliver high quality, world-leading research, which addresses local and global challenges.
We will address real world need and priorities through intensive engagement and co-creation with potential users of research output and innovation across universities, and with business, industry and governments.
We will use the knowledge and reputation held by our Global Research Institutes in Food Security , Electronic Communications , and Peace, Security and Justice , to continue to provide a progressive voice for societal change.
Researchers across disciplines at Queen’s continue to make discoveries which advance our collective knowledge and understanding of our world.
Working with partners across society, together we translate these new understandings into innovative, affirmative, and life changing initiatives.
Whether in working at the cutting edge of cancer trials, using pharmacy to reinforce equality and provide opportunity for women in the global south, or leading research partnerships which deliver world leading food security solutions, protecting lives and livelihoods, our research in Medicine, Health and Life Sciences is recognised as world leading and committed to contributing to Healthy Living for All .
Breakthrough solar imaging technologies developed at Queen's have altered how we see the universe, and astrophysics researchers have helped explain how we see our place within it.
In Engineering and Physical Sciences our teams lead the way in building a Transformative and Sustainable Economy by developing transport technologies for the 21 st Century; technologies that will make a critical contribution towards the global drive towards zero.
Harnessing the power of wireless communications to enhance business connectivity and protect vulnerable communities, and understanding the possibilities and challenges of AI and the Data Revolution to deliver cyber security solutions in a fully connected world, encompass some of our breakthrough thinking and innovations.
Describing, dating and protecting our natural and built heritage through our internationally renowned carbon dating processes, or our architectural and geospatial interpretations of our conflicted times and our shared spaces bring wider understandings of our place, of Human Environment Relations , describing how humanity leaves its mark over time.
Our understandings of conflict and peace, deeply rooted in the experience of society in Northern Ireland are a key driver of our research priorities, both as we continue to support and cement peace in our own society but as we use our knowledge and experience to help other conflict affected societies across the world.
Through Arts, Humanities and Social Science research on the legacy of conflict, education and peacebuilding, the rights of children, or the role of women in politics, Queen’s is committed to playing its part, locally and globally, in supporting the development of Inclusive and Cohesive Communities .
The creative and cultural life of societies around the world forms a key part of our research portfolio.
The protection of language, the poetry and prose of our local writers, or the interpretation of theatre, music and film are the passion of research clusters at Queen’s.
Whether this relates to the Irish language, the work of the Seamus Heaney Centre, or our interpretations of Shakespeare and cinema, we continue to make an impact, collaborating with partners in Northern Ireland and across the globe.
From food safety to zero emissions transport - read case studies on how our researchers are making an impact.
Find out about our Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) award and how it supports our researchers.
Find out about our Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) award and how it's supporting our researchers.
Queen’s Policy Engagement is the ‘front door’ for public policy engagement at Queen’s University Belfast, supporting academics and policymakers in sharing evidence-based research and ideas on the major social, cultural and economic challenges facing society regionally, nationally and beyond.
Our over-arching vision is to share the University’s independent expertise with policymakers so they can make informed decisions about the most effective and sustainable ways to tackle these challenges, now and in the future.
Queen's University's Social Charter , launched in November 2017, shines a light on the significant contribution made by our students and staff and the positive impact we have on our society.
The Business Engagement team serves as a gateway to innovation, thought leadership and research at the University.
Through our Engaged Research programme we are dedicated to establishing sustainable long term relationships with external partners, building on our status as a partner in the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) and signatory to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research.
Responding to staff and partner consultation, sector-aligned engagement ‘hubs’ have been established such as the all-island Patient and Public Involvement Hub and the Heritage Hub, as well as secondments and practitioner appointments.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/Our-people:
We are committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity and to creating and sustaining an environment that values and celebrates the diversity of our university community.
Supporting the career progression of Postdoctoral researchers at Queen's and promoting a supportive culture and positive postdoc experience.
POSTDOCTORAL DEVELOPMENT CENTRE
Our Gradulate School connects students across all disciplines to one another, mentors and employers within the university and beyond.
The Gradulate School provides a world class postgraduate experience, supporting students through a suite of training courses, events, networking, support and skills development.
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL
Our research success depends on the talent of our people, working collaboratively to tackle major societal challenges.
Queen’s is committed to recruiting, developing and supporting outstanding early career researchers to focus on their research, advance their careers and achieve their potential as future research leaders.
FELLOWSHIPS
Our technicians have the practical skills and expertise to turn research into reality and to put theory into practice for our students through classes and workshops, helping them develop the technical skills they will need for future employment.
We have signed the National Technician Commitment, and have pledged to take action on the key challenges affecting our technical staff as part of a journey to ensure visibility and recognition for our technicians.
Technicians at Queen's
At Queen’s we are committed to encouraging a positive research culture, where the contributions made by everyone involved in research are recognised and respected.
Our strategic priorities:
Research Culture
We are committed to promoting equality, respect for diversity and inclusion, including greater awareness for LGBT+, racial and linguistic diversity.
Sexual Orientation
Queen’s launched ‘ PRISM ’, the University’s LGBT+ staff network in 2018, which won ‘Best LGBT Initiative' at the NI Equality and Diversity Awards, 2019.
Gender Identity
Queen’s launched its Trans Equality Policy in 2016 and won a national Universities Human Resources (UHR) Award in 2019 for its work to provide equality for those who identify as transgender or transsexual.
Ethnicity and Country of Origin
The University’s first BAME and International Staff Network was launched in 2019 - ‘ iRise ’.
Queen’s secured institutional membership of the Race Equality Charter in 2020 and will apply for ‘Bronze’ accreditation in 2023.
Disability
The University’s Disability Action Plan promotes positive attitudes towards, and encourages participation from, disabled staff and students.
Find out more about their mission, objectives, councillors and conditions for entry.
Visit the African Scholars Research Network page
Queen’s is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and holds the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award.
Researcher Development
Queen’s University Belfast has been awarded a prestigious Gold Athena Swan Award, conferred in January 2024 by Advance HE.
Queen’s is the first university on the island of Ireland and only the second in the UK to achieve an institutional Gold Award for its work improving gender equality.
Queen’s also holds 15 Departmental Awards (3 Gold, 6 Silver, 6 Bronze).
The Queen’s Gender Initiative (QGI) represents female staff to the University; leads the development of action plans to advance gender equality; and delivers bespoke mentoring and career development training.
Athena Swan Queen's Gender Initiative

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-research/phd-opportunities:
Completing a postgraduate research degree at Queen's University offers you the opportunity to develop your research skills and prove yourself as a researcher.
During your time here, you will carry out research that has an impact on people across the globe.
For guidance on how to complete your application for postgraduate research follow our Steps to Apply before you submit an application.
If you require any further support, please contact our Faculty Hubs: Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences – askAHSS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences – askEPS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences – askMHLS@qub.ac.uk Further information on our faculty hubs can be found here.
If you require any further support, please contact our Faculty Hubs:
Further information on our faculty hubs can be found here.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/pdc:
In line with our commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat, we help postdocs and researchers progress their careers, and promote a supportive culture and positive postdoc experience.
We offer support around six main themes: information, development, career, policy, representation and recognition.
Tweets by QUBPostdoc
Contact Us
Postdoctoral Development Centre Queen's University Belfast 63 University Road BT7 1HF Belfast
List of Links
Social Media
© Queen's University Belfast 2025

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/Governance-ethics-and-integrity:
Please select the relevant link from the page below.
If you are unsure which area has information pertaining to your query, there is an in depth directory available here.
Research Integrity is a linchpin for University wide Integrity which is a core value of Queen's University Belfast.
For information on how the University maintains its Research Integrity, our Annual Statement of Compliance, guidance on Research Misconduct, Policies Procedures and Guidelines governing research and the university's current advice on Artificial Intelligence for research.
This section also contains details on access to free Research Integrity and Best Practice Training.
Research Integrity

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/sustainability/research:
The choices we face have never been so stark.
Our climate is changing.
The effects of this are being felt now as a day to day reality.
There is an obligation on those involved in academic research to turn towards the challenges presented.
Our researchers work across disciplines and sectors to address local and global challenges, incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and driving real-world impact.
A joint research project under the US-Ireland Research and Development Programme
The UrbanArk project aims to improve the resilience and emergency preparedness of urban centres and their communities to the threat of coastal flooding.
UrbanARK has partnered with local authorities and governmental agencies to address coastal flood risk assessment and communication in the context of three US and Irish study areas: New York, Belfast, and Dublin.
2023 UrbanARK Paper | Project Overview
Queen’s University spin-out company, Fjordstrong, is developing innovative underwater surveying technology that will help conserve vulnerable marine species.
Fjordstrong, which is based at Queen’s Marine Laboratory in Portaferry on the shores of Strangford Lough, has developed a patented zero-impact biodiversity underwater survey system called Auto-release Baited Underwater Video (ABUV), designed to survey high conservation value species and protected marine areas.
Throughout 2023 the company continued to research new technologies to prevent the trawling of seabeds, which would have a high ecological impact, by replacing trawling with underwater surveying cameras.
Lough Neagh has repeatedly experienced blue green algae blooms.
Throughout 2022-23, researchers at Queen’s School of Biological Sciences and Institute for Global Food Security continued to monitor and research this biodiversity disaster to find a solution, and ensure the Lough's biodiversity is maintained and extended.
Queen’s researchers have joined experts across five cities to create research gardens that will help tackle pollution, improve public health and help society to prepare for climate change.
In May 2023 their research garden in Belfast was launched, improving and extending the local biodiversity of the area.
In September 2023 research continued on a bog in County Sligo to understand the risk peatlands face when it comes to economic and environmental impacts on water quality, aquatic communities, stream flow/flood risk, and the loss of nutrient sink functions.
Throughout 2023 Queen’s researchers were working to ensure the flapper skate, a globally endangered species, recover in our local coastal waters within Strangford Lough.
Despite fisheries bans and regulations for recreational angling, the species shows no signs of recovery.
Attempts to understand why this is the case have highlighted the continued accidental capture of the species in fisheries, with a particular pressure on juveniles, that is precluding recovery.
Queen's Academics are working with sea-anglers to collect data through a tagging programme.
In late 2023, the Marine Biodiversity Data Portal (MBDP–NI), a five-year DAERA Environment Fund project based at Queen's and in partnership with the Centre for Environmental Data and Recording (CEDaR), was launched.
This project aims to build an innovative web-based portal for exploring, and monitoring, NI’s marine biodiversity.
View latest Research outputs
The Centre for Advanced Sustainable Energy (CASE) is an industry-led sustainable energy research centre that is bridging the gap between industry needs and academic research.
The publication of ‘A Pathway to our Renewable Future’ report has showcased that Northern Ireland has the potential to be an international leader in sustainable energy by building on regional innovation, with its inherent strengths in manufacturing, renewables, agriculture, education, and community development.
A Pathway to our Renewable Future Report
Queen’s researchers are leading a 5-year research programme called the GroundsWell consortium funded by the UK Prevention Research Partnership.
The programme is reviewing the importance of urban green and blue spaces for chronic disease prevention, reducing inequalities and climate action.
Cross sectoral dialogue with primary schools, the community sector, local interest groups, professionals and academics, councillors, MLAs and officials, and local businesses has enabled a series of community engagement activities, and the development of a strategy, to be achieved.
Advancing Urban Green and Blue Space Contributions to Public Health | GroundsWell Project
Despite a large growth in evidence on violence against women (VAW) over the last 25 years, VAW persists, as do gaps in the field’s knowledge of how to prevent and respond to it.
To ensure that research on VAW in low- and middle-income countries (LIMCs) is addressing the most significant gaps in knowledge, and to prioritise evidence needs to reduce VAW and better support victims/survivors, the Sexual Violence Research Initiative (SVRI) and Equality Institute (EQI) led a process of developing a global shared research agenda (GSRA) on VAW in LMICs.
Global Shared Research Agenda on Violence against Women
Mental health services are scarce in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), and designing and implementing effective interventions can be difficult.
The aim of this international study was to explore the key lessons for developing, implementing, and evaluating community-based mental health and well-being interventions in LMICs, with an additional focus on older adults.
Community-Based Mental Health Interventions
Co-chaired by Belfast City Council and Queen’s University, Belfast Climate Commission is one of three city-based climate commissions across the UK (Belfast, Edinburgh and Leeds), initially funded by the Economic and Social Research Council for the Place-Based Climate Action Network (PCAN).
Working alongside existing city structures and programmes, the Commission has been established to translate climate policy into action ‘on the ground’ to bring about transformative change.
Belfast Climate Commission
Investigating the interconnections between socio-economic (in)equality and the interlinked climate and ecological crisis as determined by natural and social sciences.
The Centre addresses how to ensure that humanity has a habitable planetary system as the basis for flourishing, good lives for the human population together with prosperous, just and sustainable societies.
It's three pillars of investigation are Sustainability, Equality and Climate Action.
Centre For Sustainability, Equality And Climate Action
In sub-Saharan Africa, 22 million people live with HIV/AIDS.
Annual mortality is 1.5 million and sexual transmission accounts for ~90% of new infections.
Young women are disproportionately a!ected due to socio-cultural issues.
Seeking to empower them with an urgently needed female-initiated protective method, Queen’s researchers developed the first antiretroviral (AR) microbicide vaginal ring (VR), which provides slow, continuous release of dapivirine for longlasting protection against vaginal HIV transmission.
Consequently, global microbicide development strategies were transformed, with the focus shifted from immediate-use gels to long-acting VRs.
A Queen’s University research team investigated food-poisoning incidents in Uganda.
Following tracing by the Queen’s team, non-contaminated cereals were re-distributed, circumventing a humanitarian disaster.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/Research-contacts:
The Research and Enterprise Directorate is comprised of ten teams.
They include Belfast Region City Deal Office, Business Alliance, Commercial Development, Consultancy and Technical Services, Contracting, KTP & Business Networks, Research Development, Research Governance, Research Strategy & Engagement and the Director's Office.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/postgraduate/research-degrees:
Apply for your research degree in a university where 99% of our research is internationally recognised.
As a research student at Queen's, you can play your part in shaping innovative solutions for real-world challenges in our state-of-the-art facilities and alongside our world-leading academics.
Apply Now
We have invested £7.7 million towards postgraduate research scholarships.
Find out more about our funded PhD opportunities .
Join us to gain insight into life at Queen's, along with useful information and advice on what it's like to be a postgraduate research student here.
Register for Postgraduate Research Events

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/Applying:
Most students make their applications through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) for full-time undergraduate degree programmes at Queen’s.
The UCAS application deadline for international students is 30 June 2025, except for those applying for Medicine and Dentistry who should apply by 15 October 2024.
Applicants should apply online at www.ucas.com
Applying through UCAS
Applications for full-time undergraduate degree programmes at Queen’s must be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Details of the application process can be obtained from your school, or from British Council offices.
UCAS operates an online application facility.
Please note that the UCAS code name for Queen's is QBELF and the number is Q75.
The Queen's Portal is to be used by international applicants who wish to apply directly, and only, to Queen's or who have been asked to provide information in advance of submitting a formal UCAS application.
Please note that the Queen's Portal must not be used for applications to Medicine, Dentistry, Nursing/Midwifery, Pharmacy or Social Work.
If you have already submitted a UCAS application to Queen's or any other UK university please contact the Queen’s Admissions Office after submitting your direct entry application via Queen’s Portal.
The Queen’s Admissions Office can be contacted via intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk .
Please provide the application reference number displayed on submission of the application.
Queen’s Portal – Undergraduate Applications
The Queen's Portal should only be used by international applicants.
If you later apply through UCAS you must also include Queen's as one of your choices and advise Queen’s Admissions of your UCAS Personal ID.
Please refer to this guide for help on how to complete your direct application .
Applications should be submitted online via the Queen's Portal for admission to the vast majority of postgraduate programmes.
Please follow the links below for entry requirements, application deadlines, details on fees and funding and a guide to submitting your application online.
You've applied, what's next?

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/Applying/English-language-requirements:
On this page you will find the following information:
Important Notice for Applicants Updated November 2024
International students wishing to apply to Queen’s University Belfast (and for whom English is not their first language), must be able to demonstrate their competence in written and spoken English in order to benefit fully from their course of study or research.
Non-UK and non-Irish nationals will require a Student visa to study in the UK for periods of 6 months or more.
If your proposed course is below degree-level you will be required to hold a secure English language test (SELT).
You can find more information on the UK Visas and Immigration webpages: Applying for a UK visa: approved English language tests
You can also view the University's English Language Policy .
Universities have discretion to choose the methods by which they assess the English language competence of students for admission to degree programmes.
Queen's University will accept the IELTS Academic (both SELT and non-SELT), including One Skill Retake, and TOEFL internet-based tests for direct admission to undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes.
Details of the tests which may be accepted by the University for direct admission to degree programmes are listed in the tables below.
Students applying for English Language preparation courses or pathway programmes offered by Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre are advised to contact Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre directly for information about English language requirements at isc@qub.ac.uk .
Further information from UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) regarding acceptable English language tests for visa purposes (for admission to programmes below degree level) and a list of test centres can be found at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-on-applying-for-uk-visa-approved-english-language-tests
If you have any queries regarding your admission, please contact the International Admissions team at intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk
Please note that for undergraduate admission , all applicants (home or international) must satisfy the General Entrance Requirement , including GCSE English Language with a minimum grade of C/4, or alternative qualification acceptable to the University.
Applicants who are either nationals of a country which is deemed by the UKVI to be majority-English-speaking*, or who hold a degree or an equivalent qualification which was taught in a country deemed to be majority-English-speaking** will normally be assumed to have met the UKVI requirements.
However, in some circumstances, applicants may be required to submit evidence of an English Language qualification to satisfy University course entry/general entrance requirements.
The tables below list the English Language qualifications and minimum grades which are accepted by the University for entry to degree level study, and which are also considered to satisfy a minimum standard of CEFR Level B2 in each component of language learning (Listening, Reading, Speaking and Writing).
Please consult the University Coursefinder for details of the English Language requirements for entry to individual undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes (both taught and research).
* You are from a majority English-speaking country if you are a national of:
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the British Overseas Territories, Canada, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, United States of America.
** If you have completed an academic qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelor's degree which was taught in one of the majority English-speaking countries listed below, you are normally exempt from additional English language requirements:
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the British Overseas Territories, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, The United Kingdom, United States of America.
Degrees must have been completed no more than five years prior to the expected date of admission.
Canada is considered a majority English-speaking country for Canadian nationals only.
If you are not Canadian, and you hold a degree from Canada which you are using as evidence to meet the English language entry requirement for your course, then you will need to provide official confirmation from the institution that your degree from Canada was fully taught and assessed in English.
Degrees awarded by recognised institutions in Ghana will be accepted as meeting the University's English language requirements.
Deferred Offers - English Language Requirement
Applicants holding deferred offers must ensure that they have an English Language qualification acceptable to the University which is still valid for CAS/visa purposes for the new date of admission, and meets the course requirements for the new year of entry.
It is the responsibility of the applicant to check that their English language qualification is acceptable for the new date of admission.
IELTS Academic, TOEFL ibt and several other English tests must have been taken no more than two years prior to the expected start date of the course.
If your IELTS/TOEFL test will be more than two years old by the new course start date, you should make arrangements to complete a new English Language test as soon as possible, to avoid delays in CAS issue.
The new test must satisfy the course entry requirements.
You should forward the result of your new test as soon as possible to Admissions at intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk
(Back to top)
IELTS Academic* (taken at a Test Centre or Online) IELTS One Skill Retake* IELTS Indicator*
* A combination of IELTS/TOEFL tests is not accepted, with the exception of the IELTS One Skill Retake.
The one skill retake must be taken within 60 days of the original test.
Only one retake is acceptable.
The two-year validity period starts on the date that the original test was taken.
Please note that some degree programmes may require higher scores in the individual sub-skill components of IELTS and TOEFL tests.
Please check the Coursefinder for specific programme requirements.
The following table may be used as a guide.
IELTS Academic (including One Skill Retake) or IELTS Indicator
105 with minimum marks as follows: Listening - 24 Reading - 21 Speaking - 23 Writing - 23
176 overall with not less than 162 in each element of the test
IGCSE in English (as a first language) Syllabus 0522
Duolingo English Test (DET)
Pearson Test of English (PTE) Academic
(must be taken in-person at an official Pearson test centre.
PTE Academic Online test not accepted)
Standard level - 5 Higher level - 5
Standard level - 7 Higher level - 5
Standard level - 7 Higher level - 6
Standard level - Not accepted Higher level - 7
5 years
Qualification
University of Cambridge International Examinations GCE O Level English Language Syllabus: 1119 (Malaysia - up to 2021), 1127/1128 (Singapore), 1120 (Brunei), 1125 (Mauritius), 1123 (various countries)
Oxford ELLT (Digital or Global)
Grade 7 overall with not less than 5 in any score component Note: where IELTS 6.5 overall with 6.0 in subskills is required, an ELLT score of 7 will be required with not less than 6 in each component
* Nigerian applicants: Please arrange to have your WAEC digital certificate shared with us via the WAEC Digital Certificate Platform ( https://www.waec.org/ ).
Click on the ‘Request For Confirmation’ button and share your documents with intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk
Other applicants: Please provide the serial number and PIN for your WAEC certificate ( https://www.waecdirect.org/ )  and submit to intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk
English Language Qualifications from EU Countries
The University will accept the following high school/school leaving qualifications from certain European countries to satisfy the English Language course entry requirements (comparable to UK GCSE standard Grade C/4 or above).
Unless otherwise indicated, the qualification must have been completed no more than 5 years prior to the start of the degree programme.
Country
Required Grade
Austria
Reifeprüfung / Matura
2 (gut) when both written and oral exams have been taken
Denmark
Stundentereksamen
Grade 7 in English A or English B
France
Baccalauréat l'Option Internationale – English
Baccalauréat Géneral
Grade 13 or above
Grade 14 or above
Germany
Abitur - English (or 2/6 in English Language as a Leistungkurs)
Grade 10 or above
Ireland
Irish Leaving Certificate
English O4/H4
Malta
IGCSE or Secondary Education Certificate
Secondary Education Certificate Examinations (SEC)
Grade C in IGCSE (taken within the past 7 years) or 4 in SEC (where 1 is high)
Netherlands
Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs
Grade 8 or above
Norway
Vitnemål fra den videregående skole
Grade 4 or above
Sweden
Slutbetyg/Examensbevis från
Gymnasieskolan (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) - English
Grade VG or Grade C, or above
Notes:
1.
These are the minimum standards acceptable and demand for places may mean that applicants will require higher grades in order to be competitive.
2.
The University will accept IELTS and TOEFL tests which have been taken up to two years prior to the start of the course.
IELTS General Training tests are not acceptable.
3.
Test results should be achieved in one sitting.
A combination of tests is not accepted for entry, with the exception of the IELTS One Skill Retake.
4.
The University reserves the right to amend the specific scores required overall in a test (or in test components), if comparability guidance from the test provider changes.
5.
For admission to undergraduate Medicine and Dentistry, a higher standard is normally required ie.
IELTS 7.5 overall with 7.0 in Speaking and Listening, and minimum scores of either 6.5 (for Medicine) or 6.0 (for Dentistry) in both Reading and Writing; or TOEFL Internet-Based Test of 105 overall with minimum scores of Listening - 24, Reading - 21, Speaking - 23, Writing - 23; or GCE O Level Syllabus 1119 Grade A2.
6.
The TOEFL Paper Based Test (PBT) is not accepted.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/International-tuition-fees:
Queen's offers lower tuition fees and living expenses than many other similarly well-regarded universities in the United Kingdom.
The fees you will pay will vary depending on the course you choose and the level of study.
The tuition fees payable by international students are based on the student's first year of registration and are listed below for undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research students.
Exceptions to the standard fees are listed separately.
EU Other students (excludes Republic of Ireland nationals living in GB, NI or ROI) will be charged tuition fees in line with international fees.
In addition, the fee rate will depend on the following classifications: Fee Rate 1 (FR1): Courses which are essentially classroom based- typically Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences Fee Rate 2 (FR2): Courses with a substantial laboratory or workshop component - typically Engineering and Physical Sciences and Medicine, Heath and Life Sciences Fee Rate 3 (FR3): Pre-Clinical elements of medical courses Fee Rate 4 (FR4): Clinical elements of medical courses BDS Dentistry: Composite fee per annum over 5 years
Course and Level of study
2026/27 (£ GBP)
2026/27 ($ US Dollars)***
Fee Rate 1 (classroom based courses)
22,400
Fee Rate 2 (laboratory)
26,600
Fee Rate 3 (pre-clinical)
39,200 **
Fee Rate 4 (clinical)
47,000
* 2025/26 returners will have no inflationary uplift to their fees in 2026/27.
** The Northern Ireland Department of Health introduced a mandatory clinical placement levy for all new international medical students commencing study at the University from 2019/20 onwards.
The levy is payable in each year of study to cover access to clinical placements in the Northern Ireland Health and Social Care system.
The clinical placement levy is not included in the tuition fee quoted above and is payable in addition to the fee quoted in each of the 5 years of study.
The levy payable for 2026/27 is £11,780.
Please note, the clinical placement levy is reviewed regularly and is subject to change.
*** All fees are payable in £ sterling.
Approximate equivalencies are shown at the following rates (August 2025) US$ = £0.80
Students first enrolling in 2026/27.
Tuition fees relate to one year of study
Course and level of study
2026/27 ($ US Dollars)*
23,000
28,750
27,600
34,500
* All fees are payable in £ sterling.
Students first enrolling in 2026/27*.
2026/27 ($ US Dollars)**
FR1 (classroom)
22,500
28,125
FR2 (laboratory)
28,000
** All fees are payable in £ sterling.
Approximate equivalencies are shown at the following rates (2025) US$ = £0.80
Please see full details on the Pay your Tuition Fees page.
Full-time Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Students The date when a student withdraws will affect the level of tuition fees which may be refunded.
Adjustments to tuition fees are calculated with reference to the date of a student's withdrawal from the University, not the last date of attendance.
The table below demonstrates how tuition fees are calculated in respect of a withdrawal; Withdrawal Policy
Part-time Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Students
Fees for part-time students are calculated by semester.
Further details of the withdrawal and module drop policy, for part-time students, are outlined in Section 5.4.2 of the Student Finance Framework .
Postgraduate Research Students
The tuition fee liability for a Postgraduate Research student withdrawal, or a temporary leave of absence, is based on the official date of withdrawal in the academic year, and a refund will be issued, if appropriate.
The tuition fee is calculated for a month if a student is deemed to be in attendance for 20 calendar days or more.
For further information, please refer to the Student Finance Framework .
Check your entitlement to funding and scholarships with our Funding and Scholarships Finder .
It is not an exhaustive list of scholarships and funding opportunities.
Please visit https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Scholarshipsandfunding/ for more funding opportunities and information.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships:
We offer prestigious, competitive scholarships of up to 50% off tuition fees to new international students.
You must have an offer to study a full-time course with us in 2025 to apply for a scholarship.
Find out more below.
Lots of other course specific awards are also available.
Check the Scholarships and Funding Finder for more details and terms and conditions.
Scholarships for 2025/26
Queen’s offers a range of generous scholarships for international students for all levels of study.
The Funding & Scholarship Finder helps prospective and current students find funding to help cover costs towards a whole range of study related expenses.
"Through the Vice-Chancellor's scholarship I was able to study Pharmacy at Queen's.
I was able to be educated in a very high quality education system and be taught by professors who are very active in their research fields.
I was also able to make my family very proud."
Are you an International Student who would love a 50% reduction in fees for a Russell Group university?
Hear from Indian student Nikita Sharma on how she received a Vice-Chancellor's Attainment Scholarship and what it means to her.
Hear from South Korean student Seohyun Lee on how she received a Vice-Chancellor's Attainment Scholarship and what it means to her.
Please complete the form below to register your interest in studying at Queen's and we will send you more information or if you have a specific query about the scholarships we offer, please get in touch .
All data is held and processed by the University in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation and will be not be disclosed to any third parties.
Personal data is never sold to a third party.
For more information about how your personal data is stored and used, please visit our Legal page or see our Student Privacy Statement .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/Applying/University-Preparation-Courses:
Welcome to Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre, your pathway to a degree from Queen’s University Belfast – a world-leading university with a global reputation.
We give international students like you the opportunity to study at a Russell Group university – one of the UK’s 24 elite research intensive institutions.
Visit site
Find out more about our preparation courses including; Undergraduate degree with International Year One, International Foundation Courses, International Year One Courses and Pre-Master's Courses.
Get all the information you need on Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre English Language courses including; Academic English, Pre-Sessional English and In-Sessional English.
The Centre is on the University campus and has everything you need from modern classrooms to our friendly support team
That’s not forgetting our teachers who have many years’ experience of helping international students like you to improve their English, adapt to studying in the UK and go on to be successful at university and beyond.
Whenever you want to talk to someone you can go the Centre’s welcome desk where you will find friendly staff dedicated to your welfare
This may be the first time you are studying overseas, but we have welcomed thousands of students, so will be able to help you no matter what the problem.
Save up to £8,000 on your tuition fees with generous international scholarships at Queen’s.
We offer Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre Regional Office Scholarships of up to £4,000 to students who have achieved good grades.
When you progress to your degree at Queen’s, you’ll receive a guaranteed scholarship of £2,000-£3,000 towards your tuition fees – and an early commitment award to the value of £1,500 if you pay before the stipulated deadline.
Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre Scholarships
The purpose of the Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre is to improve the employability of students and help them achieve their goals; and that's exactly what it's doing.
Read some of our student testimonials below.
"As a graduate of Queen's myself over 20 years ago, I graduated with the same doll my daughter is holding.
My son is also a graduate of Queen's.
I felt the UK was a good choice for education for my children and Queen's was the best choice as it is a good UK university.
The one year at Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre helped my children adapt to their environment and prepare for their degree.
The scholarship she received was also very helpful in releasing a bit of financial burden.
I am very proud of my daughter and what she has achieved".
Mr Chan, Hong Kong (SAR)
Mr Chan is parent of alumna Vicky who completed International Foundation in Science and Engineering then progressed to BSc Actuarial Science and Risk Management .
Vicky completed a one year internship in Hong Kong (SAR) and is now working as an Actuarial Consultant for RNA Analytics in London.
Mr and Mrs Chan, Hong Kong
“It is very worth it.
All companies worldwide are developing vastly and our children will have to be prepared for the change and the competitiveness in terms of job seeking.
We think that by getting better education, taught by experts, as well as learning more about the language will equip our children with the knowledge , the experience that is needed so that they have great and creative minds.
By enrolling our kids at Queen’s University Belfast, which has great history and reputation , they can interact and learn with international friends from all around the world which we think is very important.
Studying abroad at Queen’s is a great investment and will give them a grasp in facing the world’s future development.”
Mr Martono from Indonesia, is the proud father of sisters Fannya and Ferensky Sandjaja.
Fannya is currently at Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre and Ferensky is at Queen's.
Queen's University Belfast International Study Centre QAA Educational Oversight for Exceptional Arrangements report (PDF)

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/exchange-study-abroad:
Queen's has student exchange agreements with over 150 universities across the world, enabling students to take time away from their own institution and spend one or two semesters on a study exchange.
We welcome applications from students from our partner universities, who would like to attend Queen's as an Exchange Student.
The University offers opportunities for students to take time out from their own institutions and spend either one semester or a full academic year at Queen's.
Study Abroad is particularly popular with students from the USA, Canada, Australia and China.
Visiting our unique country and joining us here for summer opens up a world of learning
Enjoy a unique academic and cultural experience on one of our Summer Schools, the perfect way to visit Northern Ireland and get a taste of university life in the UK.
For outbound study exchange opportunities available for Queen's students, please visit the Global Opportunities website for a more in-depth look at the  available programmes.
Keen to explore the world?
Every year over 900 Queen's students take the opportunity to go outside Northern Ireland to study or gain work-related experience – why not be one of them?

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country:
Are you from outside the UK and want to study at Queen’s University Belfast?
Our country/region pages include information on entry requirements, tuition fees, scholarships, student profiles, upcoming events and contacts for your country/region.
Can't find your country/region on the list below?
Contact us for advice.
Closing dates do apply for some of our courses, so it's important to apply as soon as possible, particularly for those courses where there is a high demand for places.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country/china:
Queen’s University is a world-class institution combining excellent academic standards with a focus on employability.
At almost 200 years old, Queen’s University Belfast is one of the oldest universities in the UK and part of the elite Russell Group , so a degree from Queen’s is something to be proud of.
Visit our Chinese Language Website to learn about our courses, studying in Belfast, life at Queen’s and more.
We will be meeting with students at a range of in-person and digital events over the coming months and invite you to speak with us there.
Please get in touch with our international officers to find out where you can meet us next, or to schedule a 1-1 call about Queen's
We'll help answer your questions.
You can contact our international officer for China Mainland.
WeChat Service Account ID:QueensUniBelfast
You can apply to study at Queen’s from anywhere in the world.
The grades required for admission to Queen's will vary according to your chosen course of study.
View entry requirements on your course of choice by using the search tool, then check your comparable grades below, to determine eligibility.
The application procedure varies for undergraduate and postgraduate students, so we publish separate information for each.
You'll also need to be able to provide evidence of a specified level of ability in the English language.
The following qualifications will be considered for direct entry to undergraduate programmes:
Please note: Grades required vary depending on the programme of study.
Further guidance on the entry requirements for each degree programme can be found in the Undergraduate Coursefinder.
Queen's welcomes applications from International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma students.
Offers will normally be conditional upon successful completion of the IB, to include three subjects at Higher Level (with scores between 6,6,6,- 5,5,5), in addition to an overall score (normally between 29 and 37 points).
Points obtained for the Extended Essay and Theory of Knowledge can count towards the total.
The table below shows the IB requirements compared to the University’s UK A-level entry requirements.
We may also require specific grades in relevant Higher Level subjects.
Details of the A-level grades and any specific subject requirements for each programme may be found in our Course Finder.
Please note that these grades should be treated as a guide as variations may occur in certain circumstances.
English Language Requirements
Applicants should also hold an acceptable English language qualification at the appropriate level.
English (Syllabus A) with a score of 4 at Standard Level or 4 at Higher Level will normally meet the English language entry requirement for the majority of our programmes.
English (Syllabus B) with a score of 5 at Standard Level or 4 at Higher Level is also acceptable.
However, please note that English language requirements may vary depending on your chosen programme.
Please refer to our Course Finder for English language requirements by programme.
Applicants who are not studying English as part of the International Baccalaureate Diploma should refer to the full list of other acceptable English language requirements .
We will accept both Mathematics Standard Level and Mathematical Studies Standard Level in lieu of GCSE Mathematics.
The corresponding grade requirements are:
Entry to graduate diploma or taught masters programmes usually requires either a UK upper second-class (2:1) or a lower second-class (2:2) undergraduate degree.
Some taught programmes will accept a UK 2:2 undergraduate degree with a minimum of 55% or equivalent.
For most courses, your major subject or content of your Bachelor degree may also be considered.
Please check our Course Finder for specific entry requirements.
Applicants from China Mainland should hold a good four-year bachelor degree from a recognised, well ranked university with an average grade of at least 70-85%.
Tier 1: Prestigious Universities (Double First Class Universities and Top 100 Academic Ranking of World Universities).
Tier 2: Other Recognised Universities and Independent Colleges affiliated to a Tier 1 Institution (as defined by Queen's).
Tier 3: Other Independent Colleges recognised by Ministry of Education and Self-Study Degrees.
When submitting your application, please ensure that you upload copies of official transcripts for completed programmes as well as those currently in progress.
Final Bachelor Degree and Graduation Certificates for programmes already complete should also be provided.
Applicants should upload official English translations of their qualifications documents, for example, official translations (signed and stamped) issued by the degree-awarding university/institution in China.
We will also accept online verification reports (in English) of the degree certificate, transcript and the qualification certificate issued by CHESICC (China Credentials Verification service) – please see https://www.chsi.com.cn/en/service/ for further details.
There is a fee for this service.
We will consider students who have completed their degree with lower grades than those outlined in their offer letter.
For many postgraduate taught programmes which require a UK 2:1 standard, Chinese graduates will normally be accepted with a final average mark of up to 2% below the condition stated in the official offer letter, assuming that performance in key modules is of an appropriate standard.
Where the entry requirements are different, borderline cases will be considered at the discretion of the Academic Selector.
Sometimes, it may be possible to exercise flexibility in the case of applicants who have fallen more than 2% below the target grade when final results are known.
In these cases, the decision will be at the discretion of the Academic Selector.
On completion of your degree, you should forward a copy of the following documents to intl.student@qub.ac.uk to confirm the award of your qualification and the overall grade:
It is only on receipt of these documents that we will be able to confirm your acceptance.
For those interested in Social Sciences, Finance and Management courses, but who do not meet the entry requirements, you may wish to consider a Pre-Master's offered by Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre.
Students interested in undertaking a PhD at Queen’s University need good grades in their Bachelor and Master's degree programmes (if applicable) awarded by a recognised university, in addition to a strong research proposal.
Please consult the Coursefinder for details of the specific entry requirements for individual PhD programmes.
The UCAS application deadline for international students is 30 June 2025 .
Applications for Postgraduate Taught Masters and PhD programmes must be made using the University's online application system.
There is no application fee to apply for Postgraduate programmes.
All Masters degree programmes at Queen’s begin in September each year.
Postgraduate research programmes can begin at different times throughout the academic year.
The start date has to be agreed with your PhD supervisor.
Find out more about applying for Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate Research programmes.
Prepare for your university degree with tailored, academic pathway programmes from Queen's University Belfast International Study Centre.
You'll benefit from university-style teaching for subject-based modules and high academic standards.
Then, when it comes to progressing to your chosen degree, Queen's University Belfast International Study Centre will support you with your university application.
Courses include:
Applicants will normally need to demonstrate a level of English equivalent to 6.5 IELTS or 90 TOEFL IBT (Internet based test).
However, some degree programmes have higher or lower requirements (please check individual courses for programme requirements).
The full list of acceptable English Language qualifications is available here .
Improve your English language skills to prepare for further academic study or the level required for your degree.
Academic English For students who need to increase their IELTS level in order to progress to university.
Pre-sessional English For students who are academically qualified and hold an offer from Queen’s but need to improve their English language skills to the level required for their degree.
Prepare for your university degree with tailored, academic pathway and English Language programmes from Queen's International Study Centre.
Fees shown are for Fee rate 1.
Laboratory based courses and other courses have different fee rates.
Check the relevant course page for Tuition fee costs.
All tuition fees quoted are for the academic year 2026-27, and relate to a single year of study unless stated otherwise.
Tuition fees will be subject to an annual inflationary increase, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
If you receive an offer of admission, you will be provided with details of the tuition fee payable in your offer letter.
All fees are payable in £ sterling.
Approximate equivalencies were correct at August 2025 (xe.com).
We are committed to helping students realise their ambitions and we offer a generous range of scholarships and awards for international students.
These include:
We are offering one £10,000 scholarship towards tuition fees for a one-year master’s programme to students from China , who will enrol onto one of the selected programmes below in the 2023-24 academic year.
Belfast has the lowest cost of living in the UK (Mercer Cost of Living City Ranking 2023), making it a great city to live in for international students compared to other UK cities.
Total: £29,432
Total for UG (classroom based)
* Costs are for 1 year of study or two semesters.
Cost of living based on Which?
Student Budget Calculator 2022
Check your entitlement to funding and scholarships with our Funding and Scholarships Finder.
Queen’s is a world-class university with a thriving international community.
One of the oldest Universities in the UK and Ireland, we have a strong global reputation for our high quality teaching and research.
The world-leading research by our academics contributes to the latest thinking in how we tackle the great global challenges of our age, such as health, food, conflict and technology.
Our state-of-the-art education and research facilities are some of the best in the UK and Ireland.
Our international students are offered a place in our accommodation , which means you can be confident you'll be living somewhere safe, comfortable and affordable.
We provide a supportive community, events and pastoral care, 24/7 safety and security and well-being support.
As a student at Queen's, you'll gain skills and knowledge valued by employers all over the world.
Whether you plan to pursue opportunities here in the UK, or further afield, our links with many industries, specialist career resources and international network can take you anywhere.
You’ll find endless opportunities here – from career prospects to making friends from all over the world.
You’ll love Belfast, thanks to the friendly people, safe environment, vibrant culture and low-cost of living.
A world centre of research and teaching
We are the 9th oldest university in the UK and a member of the elite Russell Group.
And we’re proud to be ranked 13th in the UK for research intensity (Complete University Guide 2026).
Our Chinese students tell us they are impressed by our academic staff, with 95% of students happy with the communication with their tutors/supervisors and 95% satisfied with the campus environment at Queen’s (International Student Barometer 2024).
Start a global career
We are known and respected by employers around the world, and have links with around 3,000 companies.
Our placement programme gives you excellent work opportunities during and after your time at Queen’s.
Safe and Affordable UK City
Our beautiful campus is in the safest region in the UK (UK Crime Surveys 2022/23) and 98% of our Chinese students feel safe and secure (International Student Barometer, 2024).
Thanks to its small size and friendly people, you can easily walk around Belfast.
94% of Chinese students surveyed were satisfied with the friendly attitude towards international students at Queen’s (International Student Barometer 2024).
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
We educate leaders who make a different in the world Queen’s Business School is one of the top business schools in the UK and Ireland and prides itself on a range of world-class postgraduate degree programmes in Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management, Human Resource Management and Marketing.
Among the best in the world, Accounting and Finance is ranked 3rd in the UK for graduate prospects (Times and Sunday Times Good University UK Guide, 2025) and is 8th in the UK for career prospects after 15 months (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Belfast has two airports, sea crossings from England and Scotland, and a direct rail link from Dublin.
You can fly direct to Belfast from over 20 European cities and a number of North American locations.
Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae.
Belfast is a modern capital city, welcoming, easy to get around and an affordable place in which to live and study.
“The programme is academically demanding and intellectually challenging.
The lecturers are not only the best in their field but constantly inspiring.
I gained in-depth knowledge on asset pricing, corporate finance, econometrics, and Bloomberg workstation.
I also made some life-long friends and I highly recommend this programme to anyone considering a career in finance and investment.”
Tong Chen MSc Finance
It won’t be long until you feel at home here.
There’s plenty of ways to meet new friends, develop life skills and find support when you need it.
Students at Queen's get the best of both worlds - a safe and easy to navigate campus with the wider city of Belfast nearby.
Known as the "Queen's Quarter", the area surrounding our campus is the most vibrant district of Belfast.
Here, you’ll find everything from museums and art galleries to world cuisine, all within easy walking distance.
PhD Translation student Luyao details her 'colourful' life at Queen's and in Belfast since her arrival from China.
Read why Chinese student Xinxin regrets nothing about the decision to study her LLM at Queen's!
“I’m allowed to audit all the MA courses, seminars, training, and workshops at CTI.
For most of us, we aspire to seek job positions in universities or other higher institutions, so it is important to know the latest research findings in the field."
View student videos on the official Queen's University Belfast TikTok , read all blogs from our students , and check the latest social media posts using #LoveQUB .
You can also chat to students directly using our messaging app.
Make friends, discover new talents, and get a break from studying.
Over 200 clubs and societies provide activities from surfing, gaming, crafting to charity work.
Our active campus provides world class indoor and outdoor facilities for fitness and sports at all levels of ability.
Learn more about life at Queen's from the students experiencing it for themselves.
I have experienced a lot during my master's programme, like clubs and societies , part-time job experience on and beyond campus, visiting key Belfast attractions like the Titanic Museum , hiking along coastal lines including Newcastle and Tollymore Forest Park, Cave Hill and Belfast Castle, Giant’s Causeway, Dark Hedges, Lurgan Park; and celebrating the Chinese New Year with BT1 Accommodation and with friends.
Xinxin Wang, International Commercial and Business Law
We’re famed for our warm welcome and there’s a strong support network and sense of community on campus.
We’ll support you every step of the way through our wide range of support services.
Whether you need help with your visa application, a welcome at the airport, academic or English Language support throughout your studies, advice on finances or career guidance – we can help.
Chinese Student Society
Welcome to Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CSSA)!
We’re a non-profit, non-political society, and also an official member of UK Chinese Students and Scholars Association.
Contact: Chinese-Students@qub.ac.uk
Chinese Lion Dance
At Queen’s Chinese lion dance society, we strive to share the Chinese martial art known as Hung Fut and the Chinese Dragon and Lion Dances with everyone who is interested.
Contact: chineseliondance@qub.ac.uk
We work with professional partners who can help with your application and preparation for studying in the UK.
Search our 400+ courses, apply online and contact our friendly international team if you need any help with your application or questions on your journey to Queen's.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country/india:
We have a long and proud history of welcoming students from India.
You'll love studying in our safe and multicultural campus in the heart of a vibrant UK capital city.
You can find everything you need to know about Queen's here and hear from current Indian students about their life at Queen's.
Our Campus at GIFT City will deliver postgraduate education that provides graduates with the skills to meet the demands of the Indian economy.
Find out more about our GIFT City Campus
You can contact our international officer for India.
The following qualifications will be considered for direct entry to our undergraduate programmes:
An average mark of 70 - 85% or higher (best of 5 academic subjects) in the Standard Indian XII Higher Secondary School certificates awarded by the central boards (CBSE, CISCE) or a state board, or equivalent, with 75% or higher where subject requirements are stipulated (comparable with Grade B at A Level).
Note : Applicants will be required to provide an official Digilocker verification of their Standard XII grades/certificates.
Typical offers (minimum overall average percentage) for applicants with Standard XII would be as follows:
- 85% (comparable to AAB at A-Level) - 80% (comparable to ABB at A-Level) - 75% (comparable to BBB at A-Level) - 70% (comparable to BBC at A Level)
Please note that a minimum grade of 75% or higher in key subjects will normally be required, where the Course Finder indicates subject-specific requirements.
To be considered for entry to Medicine or Dentistry, applicants should hold the Indian Higher Secondary School Leaving Certificate Grade XII with a minimum of 90% overall, including marks of at least 90% in Chemistry and Biology.
If applicants have taken JEE Main or Advanced examinations, results may be considered in addition to Standard XII results.
Good percentile scores in JEE subjects will be considered where performance in a key subject in Standard XII is below the stated minimum requirement.
In order for JEE scores to be considered, applicants should have achieved the University’s normal Standard XII overall percentage requirement (as outlined above), with at least 60% in key subjects.
If you do not meet these requirements you may be eligible to apply for entry to the Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre International Foundation .
These programmes are based on our campus and help you to prepare for study with us.
Successful completion guarantees progression to Stage 1 of an undergraduate degree programme at Queen's (with the exception of Agricultural Technology, Medicine, Dentistry and Social Work).
For admission to most Bachelor degree programmes (excluding Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmacy), the University will normally accept 70% in English Language in Standard XII in lieu of an IELTS Academic test, if awarded by one of the following Indian examination boards, and taken no more than seven years prior to the start of the degree programme.
An official Digilocker verification must be provided:
For further guidance, please consult our English language requirements page.
Entry to graduate diploma or taught masters programmes at Queen's University Belfast usually requires either a UK upper second-class (2:1) or a lower second-class (2:2) undergraduate degree.
Please check our  for exact entry requirements.
The comparable Indian qualifications are as follows:
UK Upper Second-Class Honours (2:1)
Successful completion of Bachelor degree with:
UK Lower Second-Class Honours (2:2)
Please note that other important factors considered in the assessment of applications are performance in relevant modules at undergraduate level, and the number of attempts taken to achieve the final grade.
Where a CGPA system is used, the scoring system used by each institution will be taken into account and applications considered on an individual basis.
We take into account that at some of India's most prestigious higher education institutions it is rare to be awarded a First Class degree.
For this reason, it may be possible at the discretion of the Selector to consider candidates from top institutions who have achieved a very good Second Class degree with a final average of 58% or above (where a UK 2:1 is required), or 53% (where a UK 2:2 is required).
For admission to most postgraduate degree programmes, the University will normally accept 70% in English Language in Standard XII in lieu of an IELTS Academic test, if awarded by one of the following Indian examination boards, and taken no more than seven years prior to the start of the degree programme.
An official Digilocker verification must be provided::
When submitting your application, please ensure that you upload copies of official transcripts for completed programmes as well as those currently in progress.
Degree award certificates for programmes already complete should also be provided.
Please provide a copy of the grading scale which is usually provided on the back of your transcript.
An official Digilocker verification of your degree award must also be provided.
Sometimes, it may be possible to exercise flexibility in the case of applicants who have completed their degree with slightly lower grades than those outlined in their offer letter.
On completion of your degree, you should forward a copy of your official transcript and award certificate to intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk to confirm the award of your qualification and the overall grade.
Unfortunately, we cannot advise you further until we receive this documentation.
For those interested in Social Sciences, Finance and Management courses, but who do not meet the entry requirements, you may wish to consider a Pre-Master's offered by Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre .
You’ll love living in Belfast
Belfast is a hidden gem in the UK.
You'll live in a friendly city packed with festivals, culture, and a great food and shopping scene.
Belfast is in the safest region in the UK (UK Crime Surveys 2022/23) and is small and accessible so you can get around on foot or by public transport.
In a recent survey 95% of our Indian students said they were satisfied with the campus environment at Queen’s and 98% feel safe and secure (International Student Barometer 2024).
The city is perfect for international students thanks to its two airports and excellent train and ferry networks.
You're only a short trip from London, Dublin and other major cities.
A cost-effective, world-class university education
You’ll get an internationally respected degree while saving money.
Northern Ireland has the lowest cost of student living in the UK, in fact it's £178 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024), so you can save your money for what matters to you most.
Get a head start in your career
Our career programme allows you to find great work experience, placements and internships .
Our world-class facilities will help you build skills to stand out in the global job market.
We have a staff of expert lecturers and professors, 94% of our Indian students are satisfied with the subject area expertise of their lecturers (International Student Barometer 2024).
"My PhD is funded by a scholarship provided by the Government of India, under an MOU signed between QUB and Tezpur University in Assam, India.
Queen’s provides an excellent environment for research, with great facilities and amenities, state of the art accommodation for students, and global exposure for our research.
I have enjoyed exploring the beautiful country of Northern Ireland, and connecting with the friendly and welcoming people of the country."
Murchana Kaushik, PhD Sociology, India
Read Business Analytics student Madhurya's step-by-step guide for new students at Queen's!
UG student Natasha has put together a guide for both new and returning students at Queen's, complete with tips on brushing up on your academic skills, social event recs on campus and Belfast/NI; and a list of last-minute packing essentials.
PG student Florence shares some snapshots of her time in Belfast and at Queen's, from Eureka!
moments in class to enjoying experimental concerts inside the School of Music.
Belfast is a city that blends a rich historical heritage with a modern, vibrant atmosphere.
When I arrived, I immediately noticed how friendly and welcoming the people were, which made settling in so much easier.
Despite being a capital city, Belfast feels very approachable, with its cozy neighborhoods, green spaces, and a sense of community.
I was also struck by how well the city is designed for students, with its excellent public transport, accessible amenities, and lively social scene.
Taherbhai Nurudinbhai Kapasi, MSc In Pharmaceutical Analysis with IIP
South Asian Students' Society
SASS is a society dedicated to the creation of a student family for members of the South Asian community at Queen's, providing a forum for the celebration of the diverse cultures in South Asia.
Contact the Society

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country/usa:
Founded in 1845, Queen’s is one of the oldest and most respected universities in the UK.
We are a member of the prestigious Russell Group, of 24 research intensive universities, which has been compared to the US Ivy League as an indicator of academic quality and reputation.
We have been welcoming US students to Belfast for decades, with around 200 US students enrolling every year on a variety of undergraduate, graduate and short-term study abroad programmes.
US students choose Queen’s for a variety of reasons – the chance to study a focused three year Bachelors degree, the lower cost of studying and living, or reconnecting with their heritage on the island of Ireland.
We have a dedicated team in place to support prospective students, parents and counsellors in the USA.
We will be visiting a range of locations across the USA and Canada in 2025 .
We would be delighted to provide more information on studying at Queen’s.
Meet us in 2025
Susan McCleary Senior International Officer
Clare Coyle International Officer
Kiera Bradley International Officer
Madeline Reeves International Officer (US)
We'll provide you with an introduction to the University and answer any questions you have.
You can also join our mailing list to receive information directly related to your subject interests and details of any upcoming events.
Book a call Join mailing list Meet with us
You can contact our international officer for USA.
As the leading UK university on the Island of Ireland, over 100 students from North America come to Queen’s University Belfast each year to study abroad for a semester or an academic year.
USA Admissions Guide
Please note that there is no requirement to have completed the necessary testing requirements at the point of application to study at Queen’s.
We operate a conditional offer system, meaning that you can apply before you have completed tests and exams.
This means that your offer letter would be conditional upon completing your exams at a later point.
When submitting your application it is essential that you provide details of predicted scores for tests/exams you are due to take in Senior Year, as well as achieved scores for all tests/qualifications you have already completed.
Failure to do so will delay the processing of your application.
The grades required for admission to our undergraduate Bachelor degree programmes will vary according to your chosen course of study.
Please check our Course Finder for detailed entry requirements which are normally expressed in terms of three A-level grades.
The comparable US qualifications and grade requirements are shown in the table below.
Subject-specific requirements must be met.
We expect our applicants to have taken:
Honours/College level classes may be accepted in lieu of AP exams for most programmes, excluding Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing & Midwifery, and Social Work.
We look for grades A or B in three Grade 12 honours or college level classes, or three AP exams with scores of 4+, within the context of your school’s curriculum; for example, applicants should have taken classes to the most advanced level offered at your school, if the AP curriculum is not available as a study option.
In order for Queen’s to assess your application please provide an up-to-date scanned copy of your US High School transcript and evidence of any previous qualifications undertaken and/or courses currently being undertaken.
At the time of application, we can accept ‘unofficial’ and ‘online’ transcripts.
These documents can be emailed to intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk in support of your application.
In all cases , your School Profile document (or a website link) should be submitted along with your application.
Many of our courses require you to have a particular background in the subject(s).
This is known as ‘pre-requisite’ knowledge.
Pre-requisite qualifications, if required, will be listed on our Course Finder pages
For admission to degree programmes which do not have subject requirements at A-Level, any combination of three of the following in academic subjects could be accepted in lieu of AP tests:
Either the SAT 1 or ACT may be accepted (with the appropriate scores) if presented along with two of any of the above (for example, an ACT and two Grade 12 honours classes).
A-level Grade
A
B
C
Advanced Placement (AP) Exam
5
4
3
Grade 12 Honours/College Course
N/A*
SAT 1
1350 (min 700 Maths, 650 ERW)
1290 (min 620 Maths, 650 ERW)
1250 (min 620 Maths, 620 ERW)
ACT
28
27
26
IB Higher Level Subject
6
* we will only consider grades A or B in honours/college classes to meet our A-Level-equivalent requirements.
For admission to degree programmes for which there are subject-specific (pre-requisite) requirements (eg.
Mathematics, Engineering and Science), the Admissions Office will consider both the School Profile and the curriculum which has been studied, to ensure that the content and the performance achieved, would be suitable preparation for admission to the Queen’s degree programme.
Evidence of pre-requisite requirements are:
Subjects cannot be counted twice, ie.
if you are submitting an AP exam in US History, you cannot also submit an honours or college course in US History.
SAT and ACT Tests
We will not penalize students for the absence of an SAT or ACT test, however we expect applicants to have taken at least one type of standardized test (AP, SAT, or ACT).
Where at least one standardized test has not been taken, we may be in contact to clarify the reasons for this.
SAT Subject Tests - We are aware that the College Board has discontinued SAT Subject Tests and that there will no longer be an option for students to register for these tests.
If you took an SAT Subject Test before they were discontinued, we are still able to accept these.
Acceptable grades would be:
Please note that Queen’s University Belfast has institutional codes for the following College Board Exams.
You can send score reports directly to Queen’s using the following codes:
ACT: 7799 SAT and AP:  7753
Medicine and Dentistry
For Medicine and Dentistry , a High School Graduation Diploma with minimum GPA of 3.5/4.0 will be required, plus four Advanced Placement tests with scores of 5,5 (Chemistry and Biology) 5,4.
Mathematics is also required to GCSE standard, normally Grade 12 in High School.
GCSE Physics or equivalent is also required for Medicine.
SAT Subject tests are not accepted in lieu of AP tests.
A minimum of 36 points overall is required in the International Baccalaureate Diploma with grades 6,6,6 in Higher level subjects including Chemistry and Biology.
Mathematics and English (and Physics for Medicine) is also required to Standard Level, or grade 11 (or GCSE equivalent) if not taken as part of the IB.
Graduates may be considered - a minimum of an Upper Second Class Honours degree or CGPA of 3.3 on scale of 4 (78%) in a four year honours degree would be required, and applicants must also have the appropriate background in the relevant science subjects to satisfy the course entry requirements.
Applicants for Medicine must also undertake the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) www.ucat.ac.uk and the University will normally interview international applicants.
For Dentistry, shortlisted applicants will be interviewed via an online process.
Entry to graduate diploma or taught Masters programmes usually requires either a UK upper second-class (2:1) or a lower second-class (2:2) undergraduate degree.
For most courses, your major subject or content of your Bachelor's degree may also be considered.
Please visit our Course Finder for detailed entry requirements.
The comparable US qualifications are as follows:
Bachelor degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.2.
Bachelor degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.8.
Please note the following key differences between graduate studies in the US and a taught Masters degree at Queen's:
A taught Master's refers to a program that combines academic instruction as well as the completion of a written dissertation.
PhD degrees are three years in length and typically require you to have a Masters degree prior to applying and to prepare a research proposal.
When submitting your application, please ensure that you upload copies of official transcripts for completed programmes as well as those currently in progress .
Unfortunately we cannot advise you further until we receive this documentation .
The UCAS application deadline for international students is 30 June 2025 , except for those applying for Medicine and Dentistry who should apply by 15 October 2024 .
Your major is only three years long, so you’re automatically saving 1 year of costs.
It is common in the US for tuition fees to be tied to the amount of credits you’re taking in an academic year, but at Queen’s your tuition cost is tied to your major.
Your credit load is fixed each year, so you won’t find yourself in the position of reaching your graduation date and still needing to take (and pay for) extra credits or classes.
The tuition fees you see are the actual cost you will pay.
A list of other potential sources of funding for Postgraduate study can be found on the University's Graduate School website .
US Study Loans
US students can access US Federal Aid to support the cost of studying at Queen’s, the same way you would if you were studying in the United States.
We even have a dedicated US Loans team to help you apply usloans@qub.ac.uk .
We’ve been awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize on seven occasions – a prestigious UK award which recognises excellence, innovation, impact and societal benefit.
Queen’s plays a key role in the internationalisation of Northern Ireland and we’re proud that Belfast is a socially-diverse and inclusive city.
Our teaching philosophy focuses on staff-student contact.
Our classes are taught directly by our professors and lectures, giving students the opportunity to engage personally with world-leading academics day-to-day.
In a recent survey 94% of American students said they were satisfied with the subject area expertise of their lecturers and 93% satisfied with their personal tutor (International Student Barometer 2024).
Experience Queen's for a Summer, a semester or a full year with one of our study abroad programmes .
Queen's offers three unique Summer schools as well as a study abroad programme which allows international students to join us for up to one full academic year in a number of courses.
You can expect a warm welcome in Belfast.
94% of our American students are satisfied with the friendly attitude towards international students at Queen’s, with 98% saying they feel safe and secure (International Student Barometer 2024).
Spend four weeks with us in Northern Ireland.
Immerse yourself in a unique academic and cultural experience, and pursue your interests in one of three tailored summer school programmes:
Find out more about our Summer Schools
Students can study a new language or improve language skills at the Language Centre which offers over 20 languages at various levels as well as a dedicated Language Lab.
Learn more about The Language Centre
Student Blog on improving Language Skills at Queen’s
See below for a list of recent University and Programme webinars that you might find interesting and informative.
Introducing Queen’s academics and their research from schools across the university, available to listen via the below links as well as via Spotify and Apple Podcasts.
The podcasts include a wide-ranging set of brief talks by Queen's academics across many disciplines and subjects including:
View all Podcasts
Thanks to Queen's, I have been able to pursue my learning passions and to find new ones alongside a diverse group of students, teachers, and guest speakers.
Megan Stith, Chester, VA, BA International Politics and Conflict Studies, LLM Human Rights Law
American student Brittany enjoys summer in Belfast while completing her MA in Creative Writing at Queen’s.
Law student TJ reviews two popular and budget-friendly food spots in Belfast - Wing It and Bunsen.
American Postgrad Sami Koitz takes you through a day in her life as a Conflict Transformation and Social Justice student at Queen's.
Coming to Queen’s was a huge leap of faith, and I had to completely shatter my comfort zone to do it.
Words cannot describe how happy I am that I didn’t let fear hold me back.
This journey has been one of the most life-changing things I’ve ever had the pleasure of experiencing.
It hasn’t just enhanced my university experience, but my experience as a human being.
It’s taught me that I’m more capable than I ever thought possible, and that every obstacle is only as big as you make it.
Brittany Marasciulo-Rivera, MA Creative Writing, New York, USA
Meet us in North America in 2025
Canadian and American Students' Association is Queens' official Canadian-American society, and a great way to meet other students at Queen's that may share your interests.
Membership is open to all students - you do not have to be Canadian/American!
Check us out on Facebook .
Our soccer clubs offer a competitive and fun atmosphere as well as a great way to make friends and keep fit.
We participate in charity tournaments, as well as five-a-side and more competitive matches with various universities and clubs throughout Ireland.
Why not try the Surf club , that meets regularly for trips to the North and West coasts of Ireland.
We both organise lessons with safe and professional companies for those new to the sport, whilst taking the intermediate groups to beaches with suitable waves.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country/middle-east-africa:
27 Queen’s subjects in the UK top 20 (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
99% of our research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021)
Why choose Queen's?
| Life in Belfast | University life
Queen’s has significantly lower course fees than many other Russell group universities, and Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
We offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships to help cover your study costs.
Scholarships range from full tuition fee payments, 20% fee reductions for returning students, 10% reductions for students that pay fees early and academic attainment scholarships.
Learn more about Queen's International Scholarships
Queen's is just a few minutes walk from Belfast Islamic Centre which operates for the benefit of all Muslims irrespective of their ethnic background, gender, country of origin or age.
At present the centre is used by Muslims from 42 nationalities.
The centre is both spiritual and social hub and it provides number of services for the local Muslim community.
Joining a club or society at Queen's is the perfect opportunity to meet new people, keep up your interest in a passion or, even better, to find a brand new one you never knew you had!
With over 200 clubs, all of them student-led, there's something for everyone.
Find out more about Clubs and societies
Queen's University has enjoyed successful collaborations in the Middle East for many years with some of the regions top universities and organisations.
Global Engagement
You can contact our international officer for the Middle East and Africa or a member of international team: mena@qub.ac.uk
Course listings
Undergraduate
Postgraduate Masters
Postgraduate Research
Download a prospectus
Postgraduate
Faculties
Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
Engineering and Physical Sciences
Medicine, Health and Life Sciences
Mehak Bindra, India/UAE
The Most ‘Instagrammable’ Spots in Belfast
Hiya Grover, Dubai, UAE & India
A Taste of Home, Away from Home!
My Top Six Restaurants in Belfast
A Week in the Life of a Medical Student
Nermin Al Sharman, Jordan
Where to find Halal food in Belfast
Where to find The best veggie food close to campus

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/connect/se-asia:
We are a member of the elite Russell Group (the UK’s Ivy League) and are one of the oldest Universities in the UK.
We’re a university that prioritises academic excellence and is dedicated to helping you discover your potential       and stand out in the competitive global job market.
Explore life at Queen's and our large range of programmes on offer through our webinars and online events.
Take a virtual campus tour, or ask us all you need to know about studying here.
Find a course
We will be meeting with students at a range of digital events over the coming months and invite you to speak with us there.
Click here to register for our upcoming events.
Over £1.5 million in international scholarships available.
These range between £2,000 and £3,000 off first year tuition fees, depending on programme of study.
It is £178 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
With opportunities for work placements, and industry tailored programmes, 93% of Queen’s graduates were in employment and/or further study 15 months after completing their course (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2022/23).
We are ranked as one of the top 200 universities in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026).
At Queen’s you’ll have access to facilities that bring your course to life.
We’ve invested over £700 million to keep our constantly evolving campus future ready.
From the state of the art McClay Library, to the cutting edge Computer Science Building, and purpose built School of Law, including a Moot Court Room, we've transformed our historic campus into an innovative learning environment.
Our University estate comprises more than 250 buildings, 98 of which are listed.
The Lanyon Building, which opened in 1849, is the centrepiece of the estate.
Library, computing and media services in a single location as well as offering study facilities suitable for quiet study and group work.
World class indoor and outdoor facilities,  ideal for recreational, competitive or high-performance athletes.
Music studios, theatres, medical simulation suites, high performance computing, mechanical workshops, robotics and a lego lab.
Developing your employability skills, offering advice and assistance for times when you may feel under pressure, towards an enjoyable student experience.
Queen’s is just 15 minutes’ walk from the city centre where there is a buzzing arts, social and sporting scene, all within reach of some of the most stunning coastlines and breath-taking landscapes in the world.
Northern Ireland has the lowest cost of student living in the UK, so you’ll pay less for rent, travel and going out.
Students at Queen’s get the best of both worlds - a safe and easy to navigate campus with the wider city of Belfast nearby.
Popular clubs include:
"Queen’s is an outstanding university with professional and prominent lecturers, supported by modern and sophisticated facilities." Hamid Asman, PhD Education, from Indonesia
"It’s an affordable place, the quality of living here is really high and the support is amazing.
." Aleena Ismai, BSc Law, Malaysia
If you have any questions or would like guidance about studying at Queen’s, the team is here to help you.
We offer prospective students the chance to book a 1-1 information session with our team in which we can provide you with an introduction to the University and answer any questions you may have.
Join our mailing list to receive information directly related to your subject interests and details of any upcoming events for students in your area.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/your-country/sub-saharan-africa:
Over £1.5 million in international scholarships available
African and Caribbean Societies
With over 215 clubs, all of them student-led, there's something for everyone.
Queen's has an African and Caribbean Society, an African and Caribbean Medical Society and a Nigerian Society.
An esteemed history of collaboration
Queen's University has enjoyed successful collaborations in Africa for many years with some of the regions top universities and organisations.
We have a team of student bloggers who are here to give you advice and top tips about Queen's and life in Belfast.
Being Nigerian at Queen's: My Student Experience Timothy Agbonkpolor | Nigeria
Academic Tips for incoming International Masters Students Happiness Ojile | Nigeria
Tips for International Students with Families Happiness Ojile | Nigeria
How to get the Vice-Chancellor's International Attainment Scholarship Happiness Ojile | Nigeria
From Nigeria to Belfast – why I chose to study my PhD at Queen’s Samuel Adebayo | Nigeria
We'll help answer you questions.
You can contact our international officer for Sub Saharan Africa Africa, Wole Ibukun , or a member of international team.
Email: africa@qub.ac.uk | Phone: +234 (0) 9130 887 887

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Why-Study-at-Queens:
When you think of going to university, you're probably thinking of a new adventure, your future career and an exciting new social life.
You can find all of that and more in at Queen's University Belfast.
We're a university that prioritises academic excellence and are dedicated to helping you discover your potential.
Ranked in the Top 200 universities in the world
(QS World University Rankings 2026)
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK
(Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024)
13th in the UK for Research Intensity
(Complete University Guide 2026)
A member of the prestigious Russell Group of 24 UK research intensive universities.
Not only are we a member of the prestigious Russell Group, we are recognised as one of the leading universities in the world.
Enjoy being taught by world-leading academics working at the forefront of their disciplines.
The teaching you receive is fully informed by researchers having huge impact across the globe, meaning a more relevant and valuable degree for you.
Queen's is ranked 2nd in the UK for course content (StudentCrowd University Awards 2025).
175 years of history and heritage and the ninth-oldest university in the UK, follow in the footsteps of pioneering students and researchers working, studying, and making a difference around the world.
Today, our Social Charter commits us to the principles of equality and social justice, and a safe and welcoming place for all LGBT students.
Be part of it!
Students in Belfast spend least in the UK on household bills (Natwest Student Living Index 2024) - compared to cities like London or Manchester, studying in Belfast, your money goes much further.
Belfast is a modern capital city, known for its friendly welcome.
With a long, proud history of industry and innovation, it's also a city with a passion for progress.
A ten-minute walk from campus, the city centre is a global food, culture, arts, and shopping destination.
£178 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
With 21st century facilities and an outlook combining excellence in education with a student-centred ethos, it’s easy to live student life to the full.
We're dedicated to helping you stand out in today’s crowded job market.
93% of Queen’s graduates were in employment and/or further study 15 months after completing their course (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2022/23).
We’re one of the premier sporting universities in the UK and Ireland and our ‘Gameplan’ and Active Campus initiatives set the goal of 'Sport for All' – whatever your level.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/contact/ask-a-question:
Just get in touch via the form below and we can help with your queries about studying at Queen's, information on courses, events, accommodation and funding.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Business:
As an internationally renowned, Russell Group University, Queen's University can help your organisation solve business challenges through collaborative research or consultancy, intellectual property opportunities, developing and upskilling your workforce and bringing new ideas and talent to your business.
Let us signpost you to the right expertise across Queen's University
The Employer Engagement Team connects employers with talent, whether you have a graduate role, internship or placement to fill.
The Graduate School supports private, public and third sector companies to collaborate with postgraduate students.
Collaborate with Queen's to offer Higher Level apprenticeships facilitated through funding from the Department of the Economy.
Access the scientific expertise of Queen’s researchers through collaborative research partnerships, co–development projects or licensing.
The Commercialisation Team at Queen’s is globally renowned for its innovation strengths, and ranks as the UK's #1 university for commercialising research.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme allows companies to access knowledge, skills and technology from UK Universities.
The Consultancy team can help you access and collaborate with world-leading academics and facilities; assisting you in leveraging public funding for business development activities.
QUBIS is the commercialisation arm of Queen's that helps turn high-quality academic inspiration into high-impact commercial innovation.
Our innovation programmes drive research into impactful commercial and societal outcomes.
Queen’s is the UK's top University for research commercialisation (Octupus Ventures 2019 & 2020).
Our range of courses and programmes at The William J Clinton Leadership Institute help you begin shaping your leadership identity, giving you the competitive edge.
Queen's Business School offers world-class degrees and executive education in accounting, economics, finance, management, marketing, and risk.
Access valuable expertise through free innovation lectures, seminars and masterclasses.
The Chief Executives’ Club at Queen’s (CEC) offers members invitations to high-level networking events, lectures, and exclusive access to experts from across Queen's.
Queen’s seeks a mutually beneficial lifelong relationship with former students based locally in Northern Ireland and wherever they may have travelled around the world.
Become an alumni volunteer and give back after you’ve graduated.
There are plenty of ways to volunteer your time; including placements, mentoring, and more.
The programme works to provide an entry route to Queen’s for talented young people who have the ability to thrive at Queen’s but need additional support to fulfill their potential.
Deepen your connection with our current students, alumni, and supporters across the globe, whilst supporting your corporate social responsibility objectives.
Queen's University Belfast is a key partner of the transformative Belfast Region City Deal.
Our vision as a civic university is to bring lasting economic and social benefits to the people of Northern Ireland and beyond.
We’re working with our partners to deliver a transformational £230m programme of innovation, with a funding commitment of £170m from the UK Government and Northern Ireland Executive.
The Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC), Momentum One Zero and iREACH Health build on the areas where Queen’s has demonstrated research excellence.
They provide vital insights into the industries of the future, supporting businesses with access to tools and testing new approaches that give data meaning and drive innovation.
From the cutting edge Kn Cheung Sk Chin Intersim Centre, to the Astrophysics Research Centre Teaching Observatory; Queen's University boasts state-of-the-art facilities across all of its faculties and schools.
AMIC is a collaborative, innovative powerhouse of advanced manufacturing set to elevate our region globally and supporting economic growth and prosperity by increasing inward investment through high value manufacturing innovation clusters.
The state-of-the-art clinical research space beside Belfast City Hospital to support the setup and delivery of clinical trials: one that will advance life-saving health innovations and enable companies to access the clinical market faster.
Momentum One Zero aims to drive inclusive growth through transforming Northern Ireland’s digital economy by substantially increasing digital innovation in the region and to tackle the world’s toughest challenges.
Eventus, Culture and Arts (ECA) is made up of several small teams dedicated to providing an exceptional experience and support service to our internal and external customers..
Events at Queen's can be held in over 100 buildings of special or historical interest, so there is a venue for any corporate, civic or private function.
Queen’s has an estimated annual economic impact of over £3 billion (London Economics, 2025)
2nd in the UK for entrepreneurial impact 
(i2i University Spinout Ranking 2024)
13th in the UK for research intensity 
(Complete University Guide 2026)
Ranked top 200 in the world 
(QS World University Rankings 2026)
The Business Engagement Team at Queen's is part of the Civic Engagement and Social Responsibility Directorate and supports businesses that wish to collaborate with Queen's University.
The team provides the business community with a gateway to innovation, research, and student recruitment within Queen's.
The Business Engagement team works closely with member bodies associations on behalf of the wider University.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Business/Commercialisation:
Queen’s University Innovation team are here to help our staff and students protect and commercialise the results of their research.
Whether you’re developing a new technology, breakthrough discovery, or innovative approach, we’re your partner in making it matter.
Once you get in touch, you will be connected with a dedicated contact from our licensing team.
They will work closely with you to navigate the journey-supporting you through patenting, licensing, or creating a spin-out company.
Commercialising research doesn’t just drive innovation-it also brings direct financial benefits to you, your School, and the University.
It’s also a powerful way to demonstrate the wider impact of your work-impact that’s vital for initiatives like the UK’s Research Excellence Framework (REF), which recognises world-leading research and its contribution to society.
80 Invention Disclosures per year
100+ Spin outs since 1984 including 3 PLCs
Total 5-year IP revenues (2014-15 to 2018-19) >£80M
#1 university in the UK for entrepreneurial impact 2019 & 2020
Your Commercialisation Partners We’re a team of experts from research, industry, and investment, working together to help turn ideas into real-world impact.
Whether you're just starting out or scaling a proven concept, we provide the support and connections to move you forward.
Meet the Team
We Turn Potential Into Progress We deliver targeted programmes and hands-on support to build your capability and confidence.
From idea validation to go-to-market strategies, our tailored interventions are designed to help you succeed at every stage.
This includes new initiative, Lab45 - designed to help researchers at Queen’s explore the value and impact of their research, and support the journey from lab to real-world application.
Our interventions →
IP Support, Innovation Guidance, and Growth Opportunities Get expert advice on protecting your IP and shaping your commercial strategy.
We also connect you to funding, practical tools, and investor networks to help you scale with confidence.
Opportunities →

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Business/Case-studies:
8 April, 2016
Breaking down traditional industry-academia boundaries in order to develop products for patients.
16 April, 2014
The University, through the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, has an ongoing collaborative partnership with Petronas, a major Malaysian oil and gas company, which was renewed in 2012-13 for a further five years.
12 April, 2016
Project: Using data analysis technology to give motor insurance underwriters a clearer driver risk profile.
Project: Using data analysis technology to give motor insurance underwriters a clearer driver risk profile
Nine local companies teamed up, led by Workspace Enterprises, a social enterprise agency, leading to voucher funding of £36,000.
Project: To embed new expertise that will help this successful snack food packaging and production company branch out
into processing.
Project: To deliver innovation and strategic growth through the development of Building Information Modelling Systems (BIM).
Managing Director: Darwin Smith | Production Manager: Greg Crawford | KTP Associate: Barry Lynam NI Technology Centre and the School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Project: To set up an in-house electronics and software capability with future benefits for product development.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Business/Support-for-business/Knowledge-Transfer-Partnerships:
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships create structured collaborations between academic institutions like Queen's and organisations such as businesses, public sector bodies, charities.
As one of the UK Government's most successful knowledge transfer programmes, KTP has helped around 12,000 organisations.
Supported by Innovate UK and Invest NI , KTPs are a nationally recognised, cost-effective way to drive growth, enhance competitiveness, and contribute to wider social and economic impact.
Each partnership is made up of three partners who all benefit from their engagement in KTP.
These three partners work together to drive the project forward.
They are supported throughout the lifetime of the project (usually between 12 to 36 months) by an expert Knowledge Transfer Adviser from Innovate UK Business Connect who is on hand to enable and inspire its success.
The programme’s flexibility allows it to suit organisations of all sizes and sectors in Northern Ireland and across the UK.
Graduates
Businesses
Academics

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Business/Commercialisation/IP-and-innovation:
Invention sparks excitement, but true success comes when it drives real impact.
It’s not the finish line—it’s the starting point of a journey where innovation unfolds over time.
Thrilling as it is, invention is just the beginning.
Real success comes when ideas are transformed into meaningful change.
Innovation takes time, and with the right support, it can go from breakthrough to real-world impact.
Inventor's Guide

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/public-engagement/BusinessEngagement:
The Business Engagement team manages the Chief Executives' Club at Queen's; as well as being a gateway to innovation, thought leadership and research at the University.
We deliver the InterTradeIreland All-island Innovation Programme, TEDxQueensUniversityBelfast and many other projects bridging the University and the Northern Ireland business community.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/public-engagement/ChiefExecutivesClub:
The CEC was established in 1991 to strengthen links between higher education and the business community.
Bringing in leading experts in a range of fields as guest speakers, CEC events help to keep you up-to-date on new and emerging trends.
Membership also facilitates access across Queen's University Belfast and to its international networks and research strengths.
Our members comprise leaders from a wide range of businesses; private, public, charity and social enterprise organisations; higher education; plus many successful entrepreneurs.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/schools/queens-business-school:
Queen's Business School at Queen’s University Belfast offers world-class undergraduate, postgraduate, and executive education.
The School has six core academic departments and one institute: the Departments of Accounting; Economics; Finance; International Business, Entrepreneurship, and Marketing; Information Technology, Analytics, and Operations; Organisation, Work, and Leadership; and the William J Clinton Leadership Institute.
Queen’s University Belfast is a member of the Russell Group, and the School is a globally renowned centre for high-impact academic and policy research with close links to industry.
81% of the School’s research was deemed to be world-leading or internationally excellent in the UK’s 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
The School is accredited by EQUIS, AMBA, Small Business Charter, and has served as a PRME Champion institution since 2020.
As a member of the Global Business School Network, the School is connected through strategic partnerships across the world.
In 2023, Queen’s Business School was ranked 1 st in the UK for Graduate Prospects for Accounting and Finance (Times Good University Guide).
Take a tour of the brand new Queen's Business School Student Hub, opened in September 2023.
Start your academic journey here.
Discover your master plan.
Contribute to the process of scientific knowledge creation.
It's more than just a degree.
We prepare our students for life.
Explore the various degree courses that we offer.
Find us at 185 Stranmillis Road and get to know what we can offer you.
We transform business and society through world-leading academic research.
World class leadership development and executive education programmes at the William J.
Clinton Leadership Institute.
A global experience and education, gaining independence and confidence whilst making friends from all over the world.
CONTACT DETAILS
Queen's Business School 185 Stranmillis Road Belfast Northern Ireland BT9 5EE
Tel:+44 (0)28 9097 4200
Meet our staff
Contact details

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/schools/queens-business-school/study/mba:
The Queen's MBA is designed to fast-track your progress and expand your career opportunities through a blend of experiential real-world projects, insights from leaders in residence, and a bespoke development track.
Register for more information
Queen's Business School offers high value scholarships for all eligible students commencing an MBA in September 2025.
Each home student scholarship is valued at £10,000 towards tuition fees.
Scholarships of £6,000 are also available for international candidates.
*The scholarship award will be reduced from the MBA course fee of £25,000 (home) / £28,000 (international).
All successful applicants will automatically be considered for the relevant scholarship (a separate application is not required).
MBA course information: MBA / MBA (with Internship)
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) about the Queen's MBA
Investing in your development
The Queen's MBA is a leading programme (full-time/part-time) offering world-class education and real-world experience.
Opening new opportunities
The MBA typically attracts candidates who are eager to make an impact in their career, as well as those considering a change of direction or a period of focussed reflection.
Our MBA has been awarded AMBA accreditation - a stamp of excellence achieved only by the world’s leading business schools.
Get set for a transformative experience and a lasting impact on your future.
Gain a prestigious qualification from a Russell Group university
Generous scholarship opportunities worth £10k/£6k
Build professional global networks and open new career opportunities
Flexible part-time study available without pausing your career
Belfast is leading advances in financial technology (FinTec) and providing diverse opportunities for local and international business graduates.
'One of Europe’s most vibrant and affordable capital cities', Belfast is lauded for its energy and is rich in culture and history ( Complete University Guide ).
Discover our stunning campus and world-class facilities at the heart of the city.
Find out more about life in Belfast and how to get here .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about:
Founded in 1845 as Queen's College Belfast, we became an independent university in 1908.
Today, we are ranked as one of the top 200 universities in the world and are a member of the Russell Group of UK research intensive universities, combining excellence in research and education with a student-centred ethos (QS University Rankings 2026).
In this report, you will read about some of the key moments and achievements in the University the last year.
In addition to the financial statements, you will also find information about the work of the University in relation to the Sustainable Development Goals in line with our Strategy 2030 ambitions as well as details on the University's performance on each of the strategic pillars, philanthropy and our public benefit statement.
View Report (7.9 MB)
Strategy 2030 sets out our ambition for the next ten years to Shape A Better World through life-changing education and research.
Our vision is to be a global research-intensive university, generating internationally leading research coupled with outstanding teaching and learning, focused on the needs of our society, locally and globally.
Find out more about Our Vision for 2030
We are proud to be a member of the Russell Group, and are a highly ranked institution across many subject areas.
We have a reputation for teaching excellence, informed by world-leading academics working at the forefront of their disciplines.
Since 1845, our world-leading researchers, pioneering students and inspirational alumni have been making a difference to society in Belfast and across the world.
Some of our renowned graduates include Nobel Prize winner Seamus Heaney, ‘Northern Ireland’s Einstein’ John Stewart Bell, and the father of emergency medicine James Francis Pantridge.
Explore our rich heritage.
Our world class campus facilities are highly rated by students.
Our aim is to inspire our students to be tomorrow's global citizens through leadership and citizenship, with wellbeing, inclusivity and cultural diversity at the fore.
Our students go on to make significant contributions to society , a fact of which we are very proud.
As a global institution, we have a major role to play in making a positive impact in our environment.
Our Strategy 2030 sets out how we will embed the UN Sustainable Development Goals across all our activities, from research and education to adopting a leadership role in the promotion of the SDGs, and leading by example in areas such as equality, diversity and inclusion, sustainable procurement and a commitment to disinvestment from fossil fuels.
We are a signatory to the UN Accord , which recognises the key role that global universities have in nurturing a culture of sustainability and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 through research and education.
We are committed to reducing our environmental impact, having invested £10 million to date in over 80 energy efficiency projects and we are currently developing the next stage of our carbon strategy.
A Sustainable University
The role of a university goes beyond education and skills; we have a key influence on the economy, through research and innovation, which drives economic growth, creating new and better jobs.
Queen’s has an estimated annual economic impact of over £3 billion and on average, a degree from Queen’s is worth over £120k to the graduate= (London Economics, 2025).
We are proud of our record in working with local communities , businesses and policy makers to improve the lives and livelihoods of those who call Northern Ireland home and committed to continuing to give back through our research locally.
Our local research impact
Queen’s is pivotal to Northern Ireland’s social and economic development.
We are playing a central role in the Belfast Region City Deal and are accelerating economic growth, ensuring a talent pipeline of fully equipped, future-ready graduates to meet demand.
We are renowned for our strengths in enterprise and innovation, and was ranked 1st in the UK as the most entrepreneurial University in 2019 and 2020; and 2nd in 2022 (Octopus Ventures Impact Rankings).
We are committed to providing a positive culture throughout the University that celebrates diversity, is welcoming, and inclusive.
We are one of only 21 UK universities to hold Athena Swan Silver status, an accolade that recognises our commitment to progressing gender equality.
We’re proud of the diversity of our staff , with over 80 countries represented in our multicultural, inclusive and vibrant campus community.
We were awarded the Silver Diversity Mark by Diversity Mark in December 2021, in recognition of our commitment to advancing gender diversity, and the progress made at Queen’s in advancing gender, race and disability equality, and our ambitious plans to do more in these spaces.
We are ranked 13th in the UK for research intensity (Complete University Guide 2026), with 99% of research submitted by Queen’s assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
Researchers at Queen's help tackle the global challenges of our age , changing people’s lives for the better, in areas such as health, food, conflict and technology.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 highlighted the depth of quality across the University:
With 96% of our Engineering research rated as world leading or internationally excellent.
We support, develop and nurture outstanding researchers to become research leaders of the future .
See the global impact of our research .
A dynamic and diverse city in which to study and work, Belfast is now a leading global location for investment projects and major developments in innovation and enterprise.
It's a UK capital city with a passion for progress – a passion shared by Queen’s University Belfast, with our campus positioned in the beating heart of the city.
Today, its young, dynamic population is a thriving business community drives technological advances, building competitiveness, innovation and prosperity on the global stage.
Belfast: Innovation Capital Life in Belfast

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Campus-and-facilities:
Queen's is at the heart of Belfast's culture, as well as its art and social scenes.
We are ranked 3rd in the UK for University Campus and Facilities (StudentCrowd University Awards 2025).
We're proud to be part of a bustling, cosmopolitan city boasting a vibrant social life and rich cultural heritage.
Get the campus flyover tour with our video.
Spanning across health sciences, business, engineering, computing and the arts, with interdisciplinary research facilities and innovative hubs.
Queen's has invested over £50m in the McClay Library, combining traditional resources with modern technology, including study spaces, IT facilities, a Language Centre and a café.
The new state-of-the-art building brings together student services, the Students' Union and social spaces, offering support, collaboration and top-tier venues, all in one place.
Sport has always been central to the Queen's student experience, offering opportunities to stay active, try new sports, join teams, or compete for the university.
A dedicated space for postgraduate students, The Graduate School connects students across all disciplines to one another, and to mentors, leaders, and employers within the university and beyond.
We have options for you to live in a village type setting or in the city centre.
We also have a range of rooms to suit your budget and lifestyle.
Queen's is home to the Naughton Gallery, Seamus Heaney Centre, and Brian Friel Centre for performing arts.
Queen’s Film Theatre (QFT) offers a top-tier cinema experience, showcasing classic and world cinema in an intimate cultural venue with over 50 years of history.
Next to campus, the Ulster Museum offers historical artefacts, art, and natural wonders, while Botanic Gardens is perfect for a stroll between classes.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
We are committed to embedding them in every aspect of our activity.
Queen's University Belfast has committed to achieving net zero by 2040 across scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions.
Reaching net zero emissions will require collective effort and support from all our staff, students, and external partners.
Our Net Zero Plan was launched in October 2023 and details how we will integrate climate action into all that we do.
Queen's University Belfast Net Zero Plan
Queen’s is a signatory to the new UKRI Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.
The signing reflects the University’s commitment to ensuring that environmental sustainability considerations are at the heart of key decisions, operations and investments.
This agreement aligns with Queen’s and UKRI’s shared objectives to integrate sustainability and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into research, innovation, and leadership.
Our Annual Sustainability Report highlights our staff, student and local community's sustainability successes and achievements for 2023-24
Key themes include Sustainability in Campus Activities, Research and Sustainable Solutions, Sustainability in our Education, Outreach and Partnerships, and Engaging our Community on Sustainability.
Annual Sustainability Report 2023-24
In the Times Higher Education 2024 Impact Rankings , Queen’s was ranked in the top 10% (101-200 out of 1963 universities worldwide) in the SDG areas.
#201-300 out of 2031 Institutions Ranked
#43 out of 1108 Institutions Ranked
#101-200 out of 1026 Institutions Ranked
#19 out of 628 Institutions Ranked
#9 out of 741 Institutions Ranked
#90 out of 825 Institutions Ranked
Queen's sustainability journey commenced in 2010 ensuring our campus now has sustainability embedded across the campus.
Sustainability has been addressed across a number of different areas - construction, energy, waste, water, biodiversity, travel and community engagement.
Our green and sustainable campus activities
Our researchers work across disciplines and sectors to address local and global challenges, incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and driving real-world impact in climate change.
View our Sustainability Research
We prepare our students for leadership and citizenship in a global society, committed to sustainability and social responsibility.
Our educational programmes are increasingly focused on embracing the ethos of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals at a local, national and global level.
By supporting meaningful engagement between students, research leaders and innovators, we equip students with the skills to improve lives for future generations.
Staff, students and our local community share a range of expertise and perspectives related to sustainability.
The university host a range of events that enable our community to sharing best practice on how we as a society can address our climate and biodiversity crises.
Talks and Conversations
Locally our staff and students have been working on a wide range of programmes within our community to embed the SDGs.
Taking direction from our Social Charter we work with a range of community organisations through our Science Shop, bring our students and the community together through our volunteer programmes and provide funding to bring the green ideas of staff and students to life.
More on our Outreach and Engagement programmes
The University is committed to supporting SDGs through wellbeing policies and programmes for staff and students, to assist them with their physical, emotional and mental wellbeing.
A range of programmes have been delivered throughout the year including WOW events (Wellbeing on Weekday) for students and Lunch and Learn sessions for staff.
See more about our Wellbeing and Diversity initiatives
Queen’s University Belfast are committed to progressing positive sustainability change within Queen’s campus and beyond.
To achieve sustainability action, staff and student support is needed throughout campus, within teaching, research, operations and the students’ union.
On this page we have included information on those groups, staff and students who are key to decision-making and the delivery of key sustainability strategies and initiatives.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/public-engagement/civic/social-charter:
Queen’s University’s Social Charter is a set of principles which guide and inspire our engagement with local partners.
The Social Charter, aligned to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals , represents our civic commitment to give back to society, and to provide a place of Sanctuary.
The Social Charter shines a light on the significant contribution we can make and the positive impact we can have.
It was endorsed by our Vice-Chancellor, staff members and student representatives, during the signing of the Social Charter at our Civic Mission Launch event.
Our Social Charter is based on three core principles: 1.
Providing leadership locally and globally 2.
Promoting a positive impact on society through our research and education 3.
Equality and social justice
Our Social Charter is based on three core principles:
We will realise these core principles through:
The Charter is a podcast series which reflects The Social Charter of Queen's University Belfast.
This podcast features interviews with students, staff and partners involved in projects making a great contribution to our communities here at home and farther afield.
Follow the link below to listen or subscribe on Apple Podcasts , Spotify or Google Podcasts.
Listen and Watch Now
The original Social Charter Brochure was produced in 2017 and features 19 signature projects which were chosen to bring the Social Charter to life.
While some of these projects have now finished, they encapsulate the breadth of the activity that Queen's students and staff carry out on a daily basis.
View Brochure

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/public-engagement:
Public Engagement implements the University’s Social Charter while promoting the values of Queen's locally and globally.
Public Engagement ensures the work of the University is reflected across the community, political sphere and business sector, building relationships with groups, leaders and organisations.
Our main areas are: Public Affairs; Community Engagement; Business Engagement; Charities Committee and the Chief Executives' Club at Queen's.
Public Affairs is the central coordinating hub for the University’s outreach activity with elected political representatives and government.
Public Affairs provides support to senior management and acts as a point of contact for politicians and officials seeking to engage with the University, and as a first port of call for staff who require help with regard to any engagement with elected representatives and government officials.
The aim is to ensure that the strategic business of the University remains high on the political agenda and that Queen’s continues to play a leading role in shaping the educational, economic, cultural, and social development of Northern Ireland.
Neighbourhood Engagement aims to enhance relationships between the University and the local community.
The team works with a range of stakeholders in promoting positive student and community interventions and is also the point of contact for the community, civic, voluntary, statutory, and other stakeholders seeking engagement with the University on a range of issues.
Neighbourhood Engagement coordinate schemes and initiatives which include: educating students on living as part of the community; improving community relations between students and residents; and promoting student volunteering.
Queen’s University aims to connect, enhance and strengthen partnerships between University and the Northern Ireland business sector.
Business engagement acts as a central coordinating hub for the University’s links with key business membership organisations across Northern Ireland.
We work to improve communication to the business community to ensure they are better informed about what Queen’s can offer and the contribution of the University to the Northern Irish economy.
We collaborate with colleagues across the University; the team aims to increase participation at and representation by the University at key external Northern Ireland business events.
Driving the Social Impact and Civic Responsibility agenda, the Civic Engagement team is responsible for the development and oversight of the University’s Civic Mission sub-strategy; for maintaining relationships with external stakeholders who will help shape the strategy and for nurturing internal relationships to support its implementation.
Discover how we are approaching the journey to becoming a Civic University.
Through this we are committed to supporting our migrant, refugee and asylum seeker communities on our path to University of Sanctuary status.
The Queen's Charities Committee coordinates all external charitable fundraising requests and activities across the University
The Social Charter shines a light on the significant contribution made by our students and staff and the positive impact we have on our society.
Queen’s is playing a leading role in shaping the educational, economic, cultural, and social development of Northern Ireland.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure:
Sir Ian has been President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast since August 2018.
He is the Chief Executive Officer of the University reporting to the Senate responsible for the executive leadership of the Institution.
Sir Ian is the Chair of the University Management Board and is the line manager for the leadership team.
Sir Ian has extensive experience of university innovation driving regional economic growth.
This includes cross-sector developments both in Northern Ireland and England, and specifically the Belfast Region City Deal Innovation Pillar, driving innovation in key sectors for the local economy, such as health innovation, data science & analytics, and advanced manufacturing.
He is passionate about the importance of social responsibility and inclusion to the University’s mission, particularly widening participation, diversity & inclusion and civic engagement.
He is a strong advocate for collaboration across and between sectors.
His leadership has developed or expanded partnerships across the island of Ireland, the UK, the Middle East and the USA.
He is a past President of Universities Ireland, promoting collaboration across the island, a member of the British Council’s Education Advisory Group, Founder of both the Health Innovation Research Alliance, Northern Ireland (HIRANI) and the Northern Health Science Alliance, and non-executive Director of Dubai Academic Health Corporation.
He is a Deputy Lieutenant of the County Borough of Belfast.
By way of background, he is a medical graduate of the University of Glasgow, with his research and clinical career in obstetrics & gynaecology, where he was recognised as an international authority on pregnancy complications, particularly thrombotic problems.
He has published over 400 Publications including 14 Books and 28 Clinical Guidelines.
He has held senior leadership positions in several UK Universities, and was Vice-President of the University of Manchester, immediately before moving to Queen’s.
He was made a Knight Bachelor in the King’s Birthday Honours 2023 for services to education and the economy.
Vice-Chancellor's Executive Personal Assistant Mrs Louise McGrath (0)28 9097 5130 Email: vc.pa@qub.ac.uk
Richard has been Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast since March 2025.
He is the Chief Academic Officer of the University and leads its academic operations.
He is Chair of the Academic Council, Vice-Chair of the University Management Board and line manager of the Faculty and Portfolio Pro-Vice-Chancellors.
He also deputises for the Vice-Chancellor in his absence.
Richard is strongly committed to Queen's, through excellence in education, research, and innovation, playing a pivotal role in meeting the needs of the diverse communities that it serves in Northern Ireland, United Kingdom and globally.
He is passionate that Queen's should offer a transformative experience for its student body, academic staff, and external partners.
An ancient historian and archaeologist by academic training, Richard has written books and articles on different aspects of Roman and Carthaginian culture as well as directing excavations in Tunisia, Serbia, Italy, and the United Kingdom.
Having written and presented documentaries for Channel Four and BBC, Richard has a keen interest in the broader translation and dissemination of academic research.
Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor's Executive Assistant Rebecca Magee Email: provost.ea@qub.ac.uk
Paddy Anderson is Vice-President and Chief Finance and Resources Officer at Queen’s University Belfast.
He has responsibility for the directorates of;
He is also Co-Sponsor of the Belfast Region City Deal Programme.
Paddy serves as a member of the University’s Management Board.
A Chartered Accountant with a PLC background, Paddy was previously Group Chief Financial Officer at Translink and has an extensive range of experience at Board level in both the private and public sectors.
Paddy is a Board member of the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry and is a member of the Bank of England’s Decision Maker Panel.
He is also a Fellow of Chartered Accountants Ireland and the Institute of Directors.
Professor Bruce is Pro Vice Chancellor, Faculty of Medicine Health and Life Sciences at Queen’s University Belfast, an NIHR Senior Investigator Emeritus and Professor of Rheumatology at The University of Manchester.
Ian qualified in Medicine from Queen's University Belfast in 1988 and carried out his clinical training in medicine and rheumatology in Northern Ireland, completing his MD Thesis in 1995.
From 1996-1998 he was the Geoff Carr Lupus Fellow at the University of Toronto.
He then moved to Manchester in 1998 and was appointed Professor of Rheumatology at the University of Manchester in August 2010, and an NIHR Senior Investigator in April 2013.
From April 2017-Feb 2024 he was Director of the NIHR Manchester Biomedical Research Centre.
His research focuses on long-term damage in SLE as well as personalised medicine in rheumatic diseases, especially SLE.
He described the association between early atherosclerosis and SLE and demonstrated endothelial dysfunction in the context of SLE.
His work also showed how treatment of SLE improves biomarkers of cardiovascular risk.
With the Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics (SLICC) group his work has highlighted the role of disease activity and glucocorticoid exposure on metabolic syndrome and how clinical, inflammatory and therapeutic factors (including glucocorticoids) contribute to long-term damage in lupus patients.
He leads a global study, funded by The Lupus Foundation of America, to revise and update the SLICC/ACR Damage Index to reflect current medical practice and improve its utility as an outcome measure in trials and cohort studies across the full age spectrum.
Prof Bruce also leads the British Isles Lupus Assessment Group (BILAG) Biologics Register; a cohort of >1700 patients with SLE treated with biologics in the UK.
BILAG-BR demonstrated the real world safety and effectiveness of rituximab and supported the introduction of belimumab in England and Wales.
Studies from the BILAG-BR have also identified risk factors for infection in SLE.
His most recent collaboration is with the University of Nairobi, Kenya and the University of Liverpool to study risk factors for infection in SLE patients in Low and Middle Income Countries to seek to address the global health inequities in SLE.
Professor Clements is responsible for leading the University’s research and enterprise portfolio.
As PVC, he is a member of the University Management Board, and is responsible for leading the development and implementation of the University’s research strategy.
Professor Clements chairs the University Research and Innovation Committee and other decision-making bodies involved in research and enterprise.
He is the academic lead for implementation of the Belfast Region City Deal, and provides oversight of our preparations for REF 2029.
He provides leadership for a range of projects relating to research culture and performance.
Professor Clements provides academic leadership for our partnerships with a number of other universities and higher-education institutions and chair the University’s European Union strategic engagement working group.
He also line manages the Research and Enterprise office, which provides support to research, business engagement and research commercialisation activities across the university.
He is a board member of QUBIS, the university subsidiary company responsible for managing spin-out companies and our research commercialisation pipeline.
Professor Clements joined Queen’s University Belfast in December 2023 as Pro-Vice-Chancellor (PVC) Research and Enterprise.
Prior to joining Queen’s University Belfast, he held leadership roles at University of Plymouth, Curtin University in Western Australia and the Australian National University.
He has been a researcher at University of Queensland and Imperial College London, and was awarded his PhD in 2006 by the Royal Veterinary College, University of London.
He also has a Master’s degree from the University of Glasgow and a Bachelor’s degree from the University of Sydney, both in the field of veterinary science.
Professor Clements is an infectious disease epidemiologist and has studied the spatial epidemiology of parasitic, bacterial and viral diseases, predominantly in tropical regions of the world.
He has also worked on community-based intervention studies exploring the role of multi-component, integrated strategies for sustainable infectious disease control.
As of July 2024, he has co-authored over 320 peer-reviewed publications, supervised 30 PhD students to completion, and been a chief investigator on competitively awarded research grants valued at over £18M.
Prof.
dr.
Geert Dewulf is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Engineering and Physical Science at Queen’s University.
Between 2020 and 2024, he was the Chief Development Officer and a member of the Strategic Board of the University of Twente.
He is also Professor of Civil Engineering and Management.
He has been Dean of the Faculty of Engineering Technology of the University of Twente between 2013 and 2020 and served as vice-Dean of the Faculty between 2008 and 2012.
He was the Chairman of the Deans of Engineering of the Netherlands between 2018 and 2020.
From 2002 until 2012, he was the Head of the Department of Construction Management and Engineering.
In 2012-2013, he was the UPS Foundation Visiting Professor and Visiting Fellow in 2013-2019 at Stanford University.
Before he joined Twente University, he worked at TNO and Delft University of Technology.
He holds a PhD from the University of Utrecht.
He was a Visiting Fellow at Harvard University in 1990-1991 and the GEAN Visiting Professor at IIT-Madras in 2016.
Geert Dewulf has written numerous publications on Urban Planning, Engineering Project Management and Public-Private Partnerships.
He has been awarded with the Pathfinding Award and the Distinguished Service Award of the Engineering Project Organization Society.
He has received various grants from EU Horizon, the Dutch NWO, the US National Science Foundation and from public and private companies.
He is also Board Member and one of the Founders of the Fraunhofer Project Center of Advanced Manufacturing.
Dr Ryan Feeney is a member of the University Management Board with executive responsibility for Governance, Administration, and External Affairs.
He has oversight of the following directorates:
As Registrar, he is also Secretary to the University’s Senate, Academic Council, and Governance and Nominations Committee, and is responsible for central institutional coordination, reporting to the President and Vice-Chancellor.
Additionally, he is Chair of the University’s Professional Services Management Committee and Chair of the Civic University and External Committee.
Prior to his appointment as Vice-President, he was Director of Civic Engagement and Social Responsibility at Queen’s and, before that, Director of Strategic Communication and Engagement at the Police Service of Northern Ireland.
He was previously Head of Public Engagement at Queen’s University and served as a Visiting Professor in Governance and Public Policy at Ulster University.
Dr Feeney was also an independent member of the Northern Ireland Policing Board from 2011 to 2018, where he was the lead member for Human Rights and Professional Standards.
He has organised and curated six major international conferences, including events marking the 20th and 25th anniversaries of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, held at Queen’s, Yale University, and Columbia University in New York.
He also led a three-day international seminar in partnership with the University of Chicago and the United Nations, focused on international human rights and refugees, as well as the Global Innovation Summit organised with the Council for Global Competition in 2024, with the theme of Global Sustainability and Economic Inclusion.
A graduate of St Mary’s University College, where he studied Business and History, he also holds an MA in Irish History and Politics from Ulster University, an LLM in Law, Governance and Public Policy from Queen’s University, and a Doctorate in Governance from the TJ Whitaker School, Institute of Public Administration, National University of Ireland.
His doctoral research specialised in law and public policy, with a specific focus on the Strand Two structures of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement.
Dr Feeney was the Executive Producer of the RTÉ/BBC documentary The Agreement , a two-part series focused on the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement negotiations.
He was also Executive Producer of The Negotiator , a major international documentary film chronicling the life and work of Senator George J.
Mitchell.
Additionally, he is a trustee of Politics in Action, a charity focused on enhancing the participation of young people in politics and civic leadership.
He is also a member of the CBI Northern Ireland Regional Council, a board member of the Centre for Cross Border Cooperation, and a council member of the British Irish Chamber of Commerce.
Nola is internationally recognised as a thought leader on science, technology and innovation policy and is an independent member of the Science, Research and Technology Honours Committee of the Cabinet Office.
Her research focusing on innovation systems and the effect of public sector intervention to enhance innovation activity, technology commercialisation and business success, has been published consistently in world-leading journals.
Having been involved in over 30 externally funded research and consultancy projects her most recent is ‘Smart Nano NI’, a £63.9m project where she brings social science to an engineering project on advanced prototyping and smart manufacturing methods for nano-photonics.
This she conducts alongside a program of research for the Department for Economy (NI) and Invest NI on science and innovation policy.
Having held various public appointments, Nola is currently holds a Prime Ministerial appointment to the Board of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT), with responsibility for an £8.87bn per annum research and innovation budget.
Her intellectual standing is evident in appointment as a full Panel member of the UK REF2021 exercise as well as subject expert for the International Academic Journal Guide.
She also currently serves on the International advisory board at the University of Turku, Finland.
She has advised various public sector organisations including the Northern Ireland Assembly, the former Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, EU, OECD, Government of Mexico through the World Bank, been a Research Fellow of the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (London), a UK thought-leader with UKRI on the role of social sciences in industry, and was advisor to the Northern Ireland Minister for Finance and Personnel on public sector reform.
Nola was previously Dean and Head of Queen’s Business School, leading the school in acquiring international accreditation and recognition, in delivering excellence in teaching, research and business engagement.
Her leadership of Queen’s Business School was recognized by the Institute of Directors award of ‘Public Sector Director of the Year (NI)’.
In her role as PVC, Margaret has responsibility for:
She is also Professor of French and Intercultural Communication, and her current research centres on debates around: travel, migration and mobility; cross-cultural communication and representation; and the public value of the Arts and Humanities.
Her recent book, The Humanities Pandemic: Towards an Essential Services Approach (Palgrave, 2023) argues for the importance of the Humanities in tackling global challenges such as Covid.
Margaret is also involved in a range of social innovation initiatives, both within Queen’s University and in the wider community.
She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Turnaround Project (and was Chair for 3 years), a charity providing transitional employment opportunities for people coming out of the justice system.
She is also involved with a range of projects with cross-community youth organisations in Belfast creating opportunities for young people to achieve their potential.
Margaret completed her undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at Oxford University and previously worked in Oxford, Bangor and Cardiff Universities.
Judy is the Pro Vice Chancellor for Education and Students at Queen’s University Belfast with a portfolio that focuses on transformative student experiences, delivering Education for the Future and developing a Global Institute of Educational Excellence.
She is passionate about driving positive change and shaping the future of higher education.
Judy excels in teaching, holding both a National Teaching Fellowship and Principal Fellowship demonstrating her personal commitment to delivering teaching excellence.
At the heart of Judy’s work are students, she is committed to working in partnership with our students to explore solutions and drive success that enables every student to reach their potential.
Judy’s approach to providing outstanding Learning and Teaching provides a continuum of support, for those early in their career through to colleagues stepping into leadership, to make a step change in teaching excellence.
Judy is dedicated to promoting excellence, diversity and innovation in all aspects of university life.
Judy’s passion for academic enhancement began over 20 years ago whilst at the University of Manchester, developing support packages for early career academics.
She set up the Centre for Academic and Researcher Development, working nationally with Vitae and internationally with the Medical Research Council to deliver pipeline programmes to produce the next generation of academic leaders.
Caroline is Vice-President, Students and Corporate Services at Queen’s University Belfast.
She is responsible for the directorates of;
Her role is centred on our students, providing strategic leadership of those functions and services that define and enrich their time at Queen’s, from initial application through to graduation.
This includes student recruitment and admissions, educational support, academic affairs and the many aspects of campus life such as Queen’s Sport, Student Accommodation and campus food and drink,  amongst others.
During her 19 years at Queen’s, Caroline has held a number of senior roles including Director of Accommodation and Hospitality and Director of Student Plus.
Caroline is a committed advocate for students, working closely with the Students’ Union to ensure that we provide a positive and holistic experience for all of our learners.
Prior to Queen’s, Caroline has extensive senior management experience in the hospitality, service and leisure industry throughout the UK and Europe.
Caroline is passionate about volunteering and is a Non-Executive Board member of Choice Housing, Visit Belfast and a Governor of Victoria College Belfast.
Find out more about Students and Corporate Services
As Chief of Staff, Claire provides high-level strategic, operational, and policy support to the President and Vice-Chancellor as well as University Management Board.
She plays a critical role in aligning the University’s executive priorities, ensuring governance excellence, and facilitating effective institutional leadership.
Claire also manages the Chancellery Operations Team, providing strategic and executive support to the Vice-Chancellor, Provost, Portfolio PVC Team, and Senate, as well as management of institutional events.
The Professional Support Structure comprises of three sections which manage the non-academic operations of the University reporting to the President and Vice-Chancellor.
Professional Support Directorate Management
THREE FACULTY GROUPINGS
Each are headed up by a Pro Vice-Chancellor, and there are 15 Schools each led by a Head of School.
Faculty Director of Operations: Shannon Caldwell
Faculty Director of Operations: Colleen Spence
Senate, university charter and statutory governance.
University Governance

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/strategy:
Strategy 2030 sets out our ambition for the next ten years to Shape A Better World through life-changing education and research
Since 1845, Queen’s University staff, students and alumni have made a difference to societies locally, nationally and internationally.
Today, we are one of the UK and Ireland’s leading universities and continue to shape and serve the world around us through our research and teaching.
Queen’s has always been a generator of knowledge.
We tackle the issues faced by individuals and societies at a local, regional and global level and we are an engine of progress that is central to the socio-economic success of Northern Ireland.
Strategy 2030 sets out our ambition for the next ten years to shape a better world through life-changing education and research across our disciplines, investing in our people, both students and staff, to ensure excellence and impact.
Our Strategy has been developed through extensive engagement with staff, students and external stakeholders at a time of unique global crisis - the COVID-19 pandemic.
Strategy 2030 sets out our ambition for the next ten years to shape a better world through life-changing education and research
Strategy 2030 defines the response of the University in this crisis as we drive the social and economic recovery of Northern Ireland, a recovery that must be based on inclusion and sustainability.
The role of Queen’s in the recovery underlines our vision to meet the needs of Northern Ireland, driving social and economic change with global resonance.
Our ambition for 2030:
From our hub in Belfast we will build partnerships and collaborations across the globe, attracting the brightest and the best, being known for our exceptional record in diversity, inclusion and sustainability.
Climbing the Global league tables and ranked in the top 175 in the world.
An education that inspires and delivers the engaged global citizens of tomorrow with flexible and broad based learning opportunities that are lifelong, coupled with outstanding support.
A university known for research of the highest quality, with impact and exceptional translation driving strong partnerships with industry and business.
A leading employer for equality, diversity and inclusion with an organisational culture that supports and empowers staff to produce their best.
An anchor institution in Northern Ireland that takes pride in social and civic responsibility supporting progressive social change and economic growth in an environmentally sustainable way.
A university that is financially sustainable, with the capacity to invest to deliver the best opportunities for students, staff and society in a changing world.
Our ambition is built on our proud history of global impact:
The University’s success is a reflection of the success of our people.
Our core values will underpin all that we do, and academic freedom will ensure respectful enquiry, debate and progress.
Our Strategy is centred around our people with four Strategic Priorities, which build on our rich heritage of innovation, both economic and social, and focus on true global challenges aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
These resonate with the specific needs of, in particular, Northern Ireland and also more widely on the island of Ireland and in the UK, and are underscored by the impact of the pandemic.
A Queen’s education will provide our students with a sense of purpose and the competencies to shape their own lives and to contribute to the lives of others.
We will develop our students as global citizens with the skills to work internationally, but the opportunity to build a career locally, meeting the needs of the economy in key sector areas and supporting the growth of the knowledge-based economy in Northern Ireland.
Goals:
Our ambition for 2030 is to further enhance our impact by strengthening our research position and working with industry to broaden our translational impact and innovation, ensuring we deliver high quality, world-leading research, which addresses local and global challenges.
Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative and world-leading research that has changed people’s lives.
At Queen’s, we will foster an environment where local impact and global ambition pervades all our activities.
We will enhance our international reputation as a world-class research and educational institution, communicating our distinctive impact to the world.
Through our global reputation, we will also promote the international profile and connectivity of Northern Ireland.
Universities are uniquely placed to shape the world in which we live, by helping to solve the challenges faced by individuals and communities at a local, regional and global level.
They also have a pivotal role to play in underpinning the economic, social and cultural growth of their region.
Queen’s is central to the socio- economic success of Northern Ireland; we are a University for Northern Ireland and will be both accessible, agile and responsive to the needs and priorities of our region and our world.
Universities are uniquely placed to shape the world in which we live.
You can find more information on each of the priorities in our Strategy 2030 document.
The Strategic Priorities will be underpinned by four enablers – Our People, Financial Sustainability, Infrastructure, and Technology – to ensure we have the optimum environment, resources and systems needed to deliver our vision.
We will create a vibrant organisational culture, based on our core values, and will further our sector-leading role in equality, diversity and inclusion.
We will implement organisational change to improve our effectiveness and resilience and will strengthen our financial position through income growth and diversification.
Our campus will be further enhanced, providing a welcoming environment, open to the community for the benefit of the region.
We will develop an integrated digital strategy to maximise the organisational benefits of embracing leading-edge technology and enhance our digital infrastructure.
We will assess our progress towards realising our Vision and delivering Strategy 2030 using the following indicators.
Be among the leading universities for equality, diversity and inclusion.
Educating global citizens through a transformative student experience.
Invest in our staff and enhance pride in the University.
Be ranked in the top 175 in global league tables.
Be a destination of choice for talented students, growing international recruitment and diversity.
Be among the UK’s leading research-intensive universities.
Be a top 50 university for our global impact.
Develop further our outstanding track record in innovation and technology transfer.
Deliver our commitment to widening access and sustainability.
Generate an annual surplus for reinvestment.
You can find more information in the Strategy 2030 document.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/Faculties-and-Schools:
There are three Faculty groupings, each headed up by a Pro-Vice-Chancellor, and there are 15 Schools each run by a Head of School, supported by a School Manager.
Faculty Homepage

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/Professional-support-directorates:
Brian McCaul (Interim)
Mary Donnelly (interim)
Queen's Global
QUBIS
Sarah McKegney

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/University-department-list:
Schools, centres and institutes within the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
Schools, centres and institutes within the faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences
Schools, centres and institutes within the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences
Administrative and business related departments involved in the day to day running of the University.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Why-Study-at-Queens/rankings-and-reputation:
Founded in 1845, we have a rich history of leading change and are the only Russell Group university in Northern Ireland.
Queen's is ranked in the top 200 universities in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026).
We are ranked the #1 university in the UK (StudentCrowd University Awards 2025).
We have 21 subjects in the top 200 in the world (QS World University Rankings 2025).
Four of those subjects are in the World Top 100 (QS World Rankings by subject 2025): Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Nursing, Performing Arts; and Social Policy and Administration.
In the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU, 2024), we have 15 subjects in the top 200 in the world.
We have over 4000 international students from over 90 different countries.
We’re 6th in the world for international outlook (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025).
As a member of the Russell Group, Queen’s is one of the UK’s 24 leading research-intensive universities.
We are ranked 13th in the UK for research intensity (Complete University Guide 2026).
Our researchers use world-class facilities to tackle Global Challenges such as health, food, conflict and technology.
In REF 2021, 99% of Queen’s research environment was assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent, and we were ranked:
Pharmacy and Pharmacology
Nursing
Performing Arts
Social Policy and Administration
At Queen’s University, we’re all about creating a warm, inclusive environment that celebrates the diversity of our community.
We offer a range of opportunities designed to boost your employability, develop your skills, and help you overcome any obstacles to reaching your full potential.
We’re proud to be the first university in Ireland—and only the second in the UK—to earn an Athena Swan Gold Award for our commitment to gender equality.
In recognition of our ongoing efforts to advance gender, race, and disability equality, we received the Silver Diversity Mark in 2021.
93% of Queen’s graduates were in employment and/or further study 15 months after completing their course (HESA Graduate Outcomes 2022/23).
We are ranked 10th in the UK for graduate prospects (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Queen's is ranked 9th in the UK for Graduate Prospects – Outcomes (Complete University Guide 2026); and ranked 1st in the UK for career prospects for Biomedical Science, Medicine and Midwifery (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Belfast is ranked in the top 10 fastest growing tech cities in the UK (UK Digital Economy Council, 2021).
Find out how Queen’s can enhance your employability .
We are renowned for our strengths in enterprise and innovation.
Queen’s is ranked 2nd in the UK for entrepreneurial impact (i2i University Spinout Ranking 2024).
We are one of the leading Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) providers in the UK and a recent report by London Economics found that Queen’s has an estimated annual economic impact of over £3 billion.
Through QUBIS Ltd , our commercial arm, we have created over 100 spin-out companies, generating £323m in revenue.
Queen’s is ranked in the top 10 universities in the UK for number of spin-out companies (Royal Academy of Engineering and Beauhurst, 2025).
Belfast is a city with a passion for progress and global innovation – a passion shared by Queen’s University Belfast.
The prevalence of venture capitalists, business angels and private investors mean that young, high potential companies are booming in the city and Belfast is ranked in the top 10 fastest growing tech cities in the UK (UK Digital Economy Council, 2021).
We are nurturing a culture of sustainability to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 and are a signatory to the UN Accord .
Queen's is ranked in the top 100 in the world in the QS World University Rankings 2025: Sustainability and in top 200 in the world in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024.
Individually, Queen's is ranked 9 out of 741 institutions for SDG15 Life on Land (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024).
Through research , education, and leadership we are taking the lead in equality, diversity and inclusion, sustainable procurement, and a commitment to disinvestment from fossil fuels, incorporating the SDGs and driving real-world impact in climate change.
94% of current international students at Queen’s were satisfied with the eco-friendly attitude to the environment at Queen’s (International Student Barometer 2024).
Queen's is now one of the top sporting universities in the UK and Ireland.
Queen's was ranked 4th out of 30 UK universities for social facilities (International Student Barometer 2024).
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024), making it one of the best places to be a student.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Work-at-Queens:
At Queen’s, our people are at the centre of everything we do.
As a Queen’s employee, you’ll be part of a supportive, collaborative community that has ambitions to shape a better world through our teaching, research and influence.
We’ve been innovating since 1845.
We are a member of the prestigious Russell Group of UK research intensive universities.
We know our success is down to our outstanding staff who share our commitment to excellence and our student-centred ethos.
Our support for the personal, professional and career development of our researchers has led to us retaining the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award.
We understand the importance of investing in people, so you’ll receive great benefits and rewards and access to cutting-edge resources and to a community of over 4,000 staff and 24,000 students.
The leafy Queen’s Quarter, just a short walk from Belfast city centre, is perfectly laid out to help you maximise work-life balance, with a cinema , art gallery , gym,  swimming pool and wellbeing spaces right on your doorstep.
Get some headspace in Botanic Gardens in your lunch break, which is next door to Queen's main campus buildings or taste the flavours of the world on Botanic Avenue.
Campus and Facilities
We are committed to providing a positive culture throughout the University that celebrates diversity and is welcoming and inclusive.
Staff networks include PRISM LGBT+ and iRise BAME and International staff.
Queen’s is the first university on the island of Ireland and only the second in the UK to achieve Athena Swan Gold status, an accolade that recognises our commitment to progressing gender equality.
At Queen’s, you will find a working culture that supports and celebrates remarkable women and provides an opportunity for women to aspire to leadership roles.
We were awarded the Silver Diversity Mark by Diversity Mark in December 2021, in recognition of our commitment to advancing gender diversity, and the progress made at Queen’s in advancing gender, race and disability equality, and its ambitious plans to do more in these spaces.
Thanks to a multimillion pound economic growth programme, there has never been a better time to live and work in Belfast.
At Queen’s, you’ll be working in a capital city with innovation at its heart; a mine of knowledge, investment and enterprise.
As one of Northern Ireland’s biggest employers, we enable our staff to achieve by embracing change, applying new technology and investing in the advancement of knowledge.
Staff Cost of Living
At Queen's University we have a bold ambition to lead the way in the challenges we see ahead.
Everyday we touch thousands of lives in our pursuit of excellence.
ANNUAL REPORT

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/clearing:
If you wish to apply for a clearing vacancy at Queen’s or have a query regarding your current application, please submit your enquiry via the enquiry portal .
Please have your UCAS number ready, evidence of your qualifications and official results.
Enquiry Portal
Alternatively, if you wish to speak to a member of the Admissions and Access Service about your current Queen’s application, you can contact our Admissions Support line on +44 (0) 28 9097 3838
*Please see call centre opening hours .
Guaranteed accommodation places available for all Clearing students.
Queen’s students are more satisfied than ever.
The 2025 National Student Survey shows overall satisfaction has risen to 83%, up from 81% in 2024.
This improvement reflects gains across every survey category, highlighting our commitment to delivering an outstanding student experience.
More students are thriving here, and you can too.
All students who receive an offer via Clearing will be invited to join us online for a Moving to Queen’s virtual event on Monday 18 or 25 August.
Discover top tips on studying and life at Queen’s from pre-arrival to settling in.
Feel confident and prepared as you embark on this new chapter.
As a Russell Group University Queen’s is one of the UK’s 24 leading research-intensive universities.
Top 200 Universities in the world
QS World University Rankings 2026
Ranked the best Students' Union in the UK
Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Have questions about Clearing?
Check out our most frequently asked questions below.
You can also head over to our full FAQ section for more information.
Clearing is a service that helps people without a university or college place to find suitable vacancies on higher education courses.
Clearing is open from 5 July.
Clearing Vacancies available at Queen's are listed on our website at www.qub.ac.uk/clearing .
The pages are regularly updated during the Clearing period, and include information on what people should do if they need to make use of the Clearing process.
For vacancies at other institutions please visit the UCAS website .
Most people who use Clearing have already applied through UCAS but have not secured a place on a course.
You will be able to go through Clearing if:
Please note that candidates who made a single choice application are not eligible for Clearing unless they pay an additional fee.
Candidates in this position should contact UCAS .
The Clearing process helps to place students who applied late or have not secured a place on courses where there are still spaces.
You will need to be available to discuss and make decisions about your own application.
We cannot accept applications from parents/guardians on your behalf.
In Clearing, you can apply for any course that has places left.
You do not need to keep to the same subjects for which you first applied.
Vacancies available at Queen's will be published on our website at https://www.qub.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-vacancies/ .
Our vacancies, along with those for other institutions, will also be published on the UCAS website .
Check the lists for courses that interest you and then contact the university or college to ask if it will accept you.
It is a good idea to do this yourself because clearing staff will want to speak to you personally, not a parent or teacher.
If you have received an offer you will be asked to refer your application to the university using your UCAS Hub account.
DO NOT refer your application to a university or college unless they ask you to do so.
If you find a place through Clearing, UCAS will update your UCAS Hub account accordingly.
Do not panic if you did not get the exam grades you had hoped for and your offer is not confirmed.
If you are flexible and you have reasonable exam results, there is still a good chance you could find another course through Clearing.
If you are eligible for Clearing, you do not need to ask UCAS for details.
UCAS will make the details available to your via your UCAS Hub account.
Make a note of your Clearing Number and UCAS Personal ID number.
You will need to quote these during Clearing.
Talk to your careers adviser, parent(s) or guardian(s) about which courses and subjects would be most suitable for you, particularly if your original UCAS application was unsuccessful.
Next, find out which courses have vacancies and make a note of the ones in which you are interested.
Vacancies available at Queen's will be published on our website at www.qub.ac.uk/clearing .
As a parent, guardian, or carer, we know you want to do everything you can to help your young person navigate the university application process.
Results day is when they will find out if they have secured a place at their chosen university and while it is often a day of celebration, it can also feel overwhelming if the plans for university change.
Prepare yourself with our step-by-step guide.
Study a foundation degree or other higher education qualification at one of Northern Ireland’s six further education colleges then progress to complete your degree at Queen’s University or other local institutions, or enter full time employment.
"From the moment I got through, the team was incredible; friendly, supportive, and efficient.
They reassured me and talked me through the process, and within what felt like moments, I was accepted onto the course."
"I was also advised on how to apply for accommodation.
As a GB (Great Britain) student, Queen’s guaranteed me a place, and they made sure I got the accommodation I was hoping for.
It was a huge weight off my mind knowing that side of things was sorted."
"When I first got through to the Clearing Call Centre, the person I spoke to was so friendly and efficient, congratulating me on my results, even though I felt negative about them.
The process was super easy and not intimidating whatsoever."

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-vacancies/ni-roi:
Places are still available on degree courses starting in 2025.
Check our course options* below.
*Course vacancy listing is subject to change.
(includes NI, ROI and EU nationals who have Settled or Pre-settled status in Northern Ireland.)
Course vacancies in Clearing change as applicants make their decisions about taking up the place they have been offered.
Please continue to check back for updates.
If you have received your grades and you are interested in one of the courses listed below, please submit an enquiry form on the enquiry portal .
Please have your UCAS number ready and evidence of your qualifications.
Please note that in all cases GCSE English Language at grade C/4, or an equivalent qualification acceptable to the University, must be offered.
The University accepts Level 2 Essential Skills in Communication in lieu of a grade C/4 in GCSE English Language (subject to acceptance by regulatory bodies).
The above grades should be treated as a guide only as variation may occur in certain circumstances.
Please note that the University will take into consideration the outcome of any studies beyond A-level (or equivalent acceptable to the university) in reaching a decision.
For applicants offering the Irish Leaving Certificate the following table can be used as an approximate equivalence for the A-level requirements.
This should be treated as guide only as variations can occur in certain circumstances.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-vacancies/gb:
(includes EU nationals who have Settled or Pre-settled status in GB and Islands.)
For applicants offering the International Baccalaureate the following table can be used as an approximate equivalence for the A-level requirements.
A-level grades
International Baccalaureate Diploma
AAA
36 points overall including 6,6,6 at Higher Level
AAB
34 points overall including 6,6,5 at Higher Level
ABB
33 points overall including 6,5,5 at Higher Level
BBB
32 points overall including 6,5,5 at Higher Level
BBC
30 points overall including 5,5,5 at Higher Level
BCC
29 points overall including 5,5,5 at Higher Level
Our exclusive GB Scholarship is available for students commencing their undergraduate degree at Queen’s in September 2025.
The University will pay £2,500 towards Queen's Accommodation (or alternative contracted provider) and £500 to support flights and costs associated with moving to Belfast in your first year of study.
There is no need to complete an application form to be considered for the GB Scholarship.
If you have met the eligibility criteria you will be identified automatically after enrolment on an approved undergraduate degree programme.
For more information and full terms and conditions, visit Queen's University Belfast GB Scholarship 2025

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-vacancies/international:
Check our course options below.
Course vacancy listing is subject to change.
If you are an International/EU (non-ROI) student and you do not meet the entrance requirements, you may wish to consider a preparation course at the Queen's University Belfast International Study Centre , which will prepare you for successful study on these degree programmes.
The Queen's University Belfast International Study Centre is based on the University campus and offers a varied range of courses.
Further information can be found on the International Study Centre website.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/case-studies:
Queen’s has a proud history of conducting innovative, impactful, and world-leading research changing people’s lives for the better.
These case studies showcase a range of our academic research, working across disciplines and sectors and making a real difference to economies, societies and cultures across the globe.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/180:
In 2025, we will celebrate the real-world impact of our research, education, and partnerships - told through the voices of those we've helped, and focused on the following key themes:
From medical breakthroughs and improving cancer care, to protecting the online security of internet users and transforming the education sector in Northern Ireland, Queen's touches the lives of thousands of people every day.
Since the biennial prizes were first awarded in 1994, Queen's has been the recipient of seven awards, underlining our status as an outstanding UK educational institution and a centre of excellence.
"Had it not been for the research that was done 15 years before I hit the operating theatre and the post treatment that I got, I simply would not be here."
"What we have is a gold standard community garden which is designed to be as accessible as it can be."
"The time with lecturers, staff, and students builds and enhances relationships and makes young people believe in themselves."
"I think the sanctuary movement has made a huge difference.
Personally, sanctuary to me is where you feel safe, where you feel heard, and where you feel valued."
Professor Sir Ian Greer
Over the last 180 years, we have welcomed and produced some of the world's most influential figures.
From Nobel-Prize winning poet Seamus Heaney and former President of Ireland Mary McAleese to Professor Franklin Pantridge who invented the portable defibrillator, our halls have been home to leaders in literature, politics, science, engineering and beyond.
As we celebrate this milestone, we reflect on the people who have shaped and been shaped by Queen's.
We joined the prestigious, research-intensive Russell Group in 2007, making us one of the UK's 24 leading research-intensive universities.
Today, we are particularly well known for our research into agri-food, sustainable energy, medical research and our innovative cybersecurity work.
In REF 2021, 99% of our research environment was assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
We have been recognised for our innovating teaching methods and commitment to student satisfaction, receiving accolades such as the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education.
From the day we opened our doors 180 years ago to the present, our university has continued to evolve to meet the needs of each new generation.
Our once-modest institution has transformed into a world-class centre for education and research, allowing staff and students to push the boundaries of knowledge.
Through a £700m, 20-year capital development programme , Queen's has carefully preserved its heritage while embracing innovation, creating one of the finest campuses in the UK and Ireland.
Explore how our facilities have changed, blending history with cutting-edge advancements.
Our Facilities
Inspiring positive change for 180 years
Celebrating them women from Queen's Past, Present and Future
Learn more about how we plan to continue Queen's success now and into the future

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Undergraduate/open-days/september-open-day:
Join us in Belfast on Saturday 6 September, 9.30am - 3pm to explore what sets Queen’s apart.
You’ll find out more about our courses, meet current students and staff, and get a real feel for student life here.
With Northern Ireland having the lowest student living costs in the UK and overall living costs £178/month cheaper than the UK average (Save the Student 2024), Queen’s is one of the most affordable university destinations in the UK.
Belfast is easy to get to, with frequent trains and 24-hour bus services from across the region.
Whether you're coming from Derry, Newry, Monaghan or Dublin, Queen’s is well connected and simple to get to.
Parents and Teachers: Register here Students: Register here
Chat with current club and society members in the SU foyer at One Elmwood and discover how joining one of 220+ clubs and societies can help you meet new people, explore new interests, and make the most of uni life.
Our Students’ Union is ranked No.1 in the UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025).
Talk to a member of Queen’s Sport at one of our information stands to learn about our incredible sporting opportunities.
Discover why we’re a premier sporting university.
Take a ten-minute walk through Botanic Gardens to see our advanced Physical Education Centre, with tours running throughout the day.
Explore our beautiful campus!
Walking tours will depart from the Welcome Centre throughout the day, led by our friendly Student Ambassadors who will share their university experiences with you.
The tour will include main campus facilities such as the Lanyon Building, McClay Library, and One Elmwood Student Centre and Students’ Union.
Learn more about the courses you’re interested in at one of our subject information talks.
Our academics will provide an overview of what you can expect to be taught.
You’ll also have the opportunity to hear first-hand from current students and teaching staff at our subject information stands.
Chat with our support staff to learn about the wide range of services available at Queen’s, including wellbeing, admissions, accommodation, and careers.
You can also attend a short talk for an overview.
Queen’s is ranked 8th in the UK for career prospects after 15 months (Guardian University Guide 2025) making it an excellent option for students across the island of Ireland.
Attend one of our accommodation tours to get a sense of what it’s like to live at Queen’s.
Buses will leave from the main campus every 20 minutes to take you to our BT1 city centre or BT9 Elms Village accommodation.
Enjoy some downtime relaxing on our beautiful lawns.
Have lunch at our food trucks or one of our cafés and food outlets located throughout the campus.
Take part in our lawn games and take fun photos in our 360 dome.
Don’t forget to grab some free popcorn and pick ‘n’ mix.
NORTHERN IRELAND HAS THE LOWEST STUDENT LIVING COSTS IN THE UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024)
RANKED THE BEST STUDENTS' UNION IN THE UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025)
Photographs and/or video footage will be taken throughout this event, by confirming your attendance you are confirming your consent.
This footage could be used by the University for marketing and publicity, including and not limited to, publications, campaigns, social media and on our website.
Please contact studentrecruitment@qub.ac.uk in advance of the event if you have any concerns or if you wish to be exempted from this activity.
Find out more about the support available to you
Look around our campus and state-of-the-art facilities for yourself with our 360 degree videos.
Explore the city and see why you will love your time in Belfast.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/media/podcasts:
As part of the University’s commitment to achieving Net Zero by 2040, ‘The Ripple Effect’ will shine a spotlight on the incredible initiatives taking place right here at Queen’s, the challenges we face, and how we can all make an impact.
Each month we will be joined by fantastic guests, each making their mark on the sustainability space at Queen’s.
Listen on Spotify and iTunes
Where academia meets industry, Think Future is the only podcast dedicated entirely to Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
Join us as we dive into the cutting-edge world of innovation and collaboration at Queen's.
Listen to insightful conversations with the brightest minds who are using academic research to drive change in businesses across the UK and Northern Ireland.
Discover how KTP can catapult your career or business and contribute to shaping a more productive and sustainable future.
Whether you're a student, graduate, business leader, or academic, this podcast has valuable insights to motivate and inspire you.
Listen and subscribe now on Spotify or Apple Podcasts.
Advancements in health mean we are now living longer.
The environment we live in, work in and play in can have a huge impact on ageing and it's important we explore this, especially in the face of the climate crisis and our changing environment.
Through the course of this podcast series we will be speaking to some of the researchers from both the SPACE project at Queen's University Belfast and researchers from similar projects around the world.
For more information on our research visit: www.qub.ac.uk/sites/space This work was supported by UK Research and Innovation [ES/V016075/1]
Listen on Spotify & iTunes
The stories of asylum seekers and immigrants who have made Belfast their home.
Improve your wellbeing, and receive support during your time at Queen's - either as a student, or as a staff member.
Professor Michael Semple speaks with key figures as Afghanistan seeks to rebuild under a new Taliban government, 20 years after the former Taliban rulers were overthrown.
Hear from current students, staff and special guests so that you can make an informed decision about studying at Queen’s
Conversations from The Graduate School.
A podcast series from Careers, Employability and Skills.
Official podcast of Queen's University.
A podcast from the Institute for Global Food Security on COVID-19 and food.
Hear people who are interested in philosophy talking about their subject.
Michael Duffy and Ciaran Mulholland discuss the longer-term mental health implications of the pandemic.
Two of the UK's leading academic experts on Brexit explore the latest developments in the process and discuss the big issues yet to be addressed.
Professor Richard English speaks with a host of people from the worlds of history, politics and culture.
In this anniversary podcast series, we will reflect on our university’s journey and how our staff, students, and alumni have shaped a better world.
This podcast series looks at conflict and peace-building around the world, from Afghanistan to Ireland, Colombia and South Africa to the Middle East.
QUB Voices showcases PhD research at Queen’s, giving postgraduate researchers an opportunity to share, discuss and promote their projects.
A podcast from the Institute for Global Food Security.
A podcast from the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Untold stories of generations of Irish women who saw their American Dream become a nightmare.
A podcast from The Mitchell Institute
A podcast from Queen's University Belfast and Pivotal Public Policy Forum
The Good Business podcast from Queen's Business School goes beyond the bottom line and examines the ethical, social and environment responsibilities of businesses.
A podcast from The School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
A podcast from the Postdoctoral Development Centre at Queen's University Belfast
A podcast on the impact of our Social Charter.
A podcast from the School of Law
A podcast from The Graduate School.
A podcast from The Seamus Heaney Centre
A podcast from The School of Nursing and Midwifery.
'How did they get to were they are now?"- A series of interviews with Queen's alumni.
The AHSS Digital Learning Team invite academics, professional services staff, and students to join the conversation about their experiences of online, digital and blended learning.
Reflections on the unfolding coronavirus crisis on refugee communities in Europe and further afield.
Professor Richard English speaks with experts working in the areas of conflict resolution, peace-building, security and justice.
The series examines the ongoing debate around the constitutional future of Northern Ireland.
APOD is apodcast all about Anthropology.
It reflects the work and interests of Queen's Anthropology staff and students.
Find out about living in Riddel Hall in the 1960s.
Education, research, professional practice, and student experience in the areas of pharmacy and pharmaceutical science.
Learn about the opportunities, experiences and challenges of studying overseas.
This podcast series is all about the philosophy of free speech.
Each week QCASTs will feature powerful accounts from the lived experience of dealing with daily challenges ranging from substance use, mental health, and suicide as well as the very real impact the cost-of-living crisis is having in our schools.
Queen's academics and guests reflect on issues raised by Partition over the past 100 years.
Stories of Accidental Environmental Activism in Northern Ireland.
How Northern Ireland’s past continues to impact the way young people consume and share “truths” about their nation’s history.
The Post-Brexit Governance NI project team met recently to share their thoughts on what happens next for the Protocol/Windsor Framework in light of the recent democratic consent vote in the NI Assembly and to discuss what we can expect to see happen in 2025 and beyond.
This series celebrates, and examines the challenges for, women making theatre in Northern Ireland from the 1980s to the present day.
This work was undertaken by Dr Shonagh Hill and supported by the Arts and Humanities Research Council [grant number AH/X004414/1].
Welcome to the Advisor Exchange podcast!
Demystify processes and share best practices.
Whether you're new to the role or seeking to enhance your understanding, tune in to gain valuable insights and enjoy some enlightening conversations.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Visit-Us/Campus-Tours-Meet-Us:
Our Campus Tours run on Mondays and Fridays at 10am, 12pm and 2pm, and are led by our wonderful Student Ambassadors.
They'll show you where you'll study, where you will live and the facilities you will get to use as part of your student experience.
Please note that our Campus Tours are generic and not subject specific.
If a subject meeting is required, our faculty staff can organise that for you – please contact them on one of the following email addresses, stating your subject interest and the date and time of your campus tour:
Right to Cancel Campus Tour Disclaimer
Queen’s University Belfast reserves the right to cancel or reschedule any campus tour at its discretion due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather conditions, safety concerns, or other operational reasons.
In the event of a cancellation or change, we will make reasonable efforts to notify registered participants as soon as possible via the contact information provided at the time of registration.
We recommend checking your email and our official website for updates before your scheduled visit.
Please note that if you arrive more than 10 minutes late to your scheduled tour, you will forfeit your place.
Walk-ins are not permitted – you must reserve your space in advance using the booking form.
Queen’s University Belfast is not responsible for any travel expenses or other costs incurred due to cancellations or changes.
Thank you for your understanding, and we look forward to welcoming you to our campus in the future!
BOOK NOW
The tour itself is a walking tour that lasts around 90 minutes and takes in the main facilities of campus.
The main Lanyon building was opened in 1849 and is a Northern Ireland landmark.
Named after its architect, Sir Charles Lanyon, the striking building is the central part of the campus and has been voted one of the most beautiful university buildings in the world.
Opened in 2006, the stunning Library sets the benchmark for university study hubs, with over two thousand reader spaces set over four floors.
We'll show you the private study areas, the millions of books for all subjects and take you through the Narnian wardrobe door to the CS Lewis Study Room, named after one of Belfast's most noted literary sons.
The Physical Education Centre in Botanic Gardens is a state-of-the-art space.
Our facilities cater for all mainstream indoor sports.
On your tour you’ll see some of the famous sporting faces whose careers were nurtured at Queen’s Sport.
These facilities are all available to new students of the University.
BT9 is a dedicated student village, offering a range of modern, comfortable and secure accommodation just 15 mins walk or a short bus ride from Queen’s main campus.
You’ll be shown around a typical bedroom, kitchen/common room, and the Treehouse, the hub of the village, with reception, a coffee bar, and other student amenities.
Elms BT1 and Elms BT2 are an ideal choice if you’d like to live in the bustling city centre, close to shops, cafes and restaurants, but only 20 mins walk or a short bus ride from Queen’s main campus.
The new state-of-the-art building brings together student services with the Students' Union and a range of facilities so students can access services, collaborate in shared spaces, get support and advice, and socialise in first class venues.
Everything you need is in one place.
It provides a whole new exciting space to catch up with friends, study in a tech-friendly space, grab lunch from the SU Shop, enjoy a pint in the Union Bar, or take in a gig in the brand new Mandela Hall.
Begin your own journey with our 360 degree tours of our beautiful campus and Belfast City Centre.
Find out more about our upcoming undergraduate information events and open days that are hosted in June and September every year.
Find out more about our upcoming postgraduate information events.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/cost-of-living:
Queen’s University has announced a multi-million support package of £7.69 million for students and staff facing the current cost of living crisis.
As students and staff face into a winter of financial uncertainty, it has been our priority to develop a series of measures to support the Queen’s community during the escalating crisis.
We will continue to develop additional proposals to support both students and staff through the cost of living crisis and we will announce further interventions in due course.
Drop ins, 1-1 advice and a range of services designed to support student wellbeing and offer financial advice.
Support is available across the university for all our staff.
Find out how to access information, advice and support.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/research-reveals-impact-great-irish-famine-on-human-height.html:
New research from Queen’s Business School and Edinburgh Business School has examined the impact of the Great Irish Famine (1845-1852) on human height.
The research found that in the regions hardest‑hit by the Famine, survivors surprisingly did not display the expected stunting in height (a proxy for early-life well-being) usually associated with malnutrition and disease.
In some regions, the survivors' average adult height was comparable to - or even slightly greater than - that of individuals born before or after the Famine.
The study used the historical data of 14,500 individuals, with different exposures to Famine conditions and drawn from two prisons in Dublin and Tipperary, born before, during, and after the Famine.
The findings were recently published in Economic History Review, coinciding with the 180 th anniversary of the beginning of the Great Irish Famine, one of the defining events in Irish history.
The study revealed two effects occurring simultaneously, but to different extents:
“Individuals born in severely affected regions such as Tipperary exhibited no evidence of stunted growth, indicating that the Famine disproportionately eliminated the most vulnerable,” explained Dr Chris Colvin from Queen’s Business School .
“In contrast, stunting is observed only in areas with lower excess mortality such as Dublin, where selective pressures were weaker.
With the weakest in society succumbing to disease and starvation, this left only the healthiest to survive into adulthood.
They grew up to be significantly taller than average.”
Professor McLaughlin from Edinburgh Business School at Heriot-Watt University said: “This research reshapes how we understand the long-term effects of humanitarian disasters like famines.
By distinguishing between scarring (lasting damage to survivors' health) and selective mortality, it challenges simple assumptions that crises always leave a uniformly weakened population.”
Dr Matthias Blum , Honorary Professor of Practice at Queen’s Business School and Economist at the German Medical Association, commented: “The work deepens public and academic understanding of how the Great Irish Famine shaped the Irish population—not just in terms of death and emigration, but in the long-term health legacy it left behind.”
Dr Colvin added: “These findings contribute to debates on the biological consequences of extreme catastrophic risks, demonstrating how selection effects can obscure long-term health deterioration.
More broadly, our study provides a methodological framework for assessing selection in historical anthropometric research.”
The research team included Dr Chris Colvin from Queen’s Business School, Professor Eoin McLaughlin from Edinburgh Business School at Heriot-Watt University, and Dr Matthias Blum, Honorary Professor of Practice at Queen’s Business School and Economist at the German Medical Association.
For more information, please visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fptLMWCMrq8
Media enquiries to Zara McBrearty at Queen’s Communications Office on email: z.mcbrearty@qub.ac.uk or Mob: 07795676858

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/brain-powered-computer-game-stroke.html:
Queen’s University researchers are calling on 50 stroke survivors to take part in a study to explore whether a wireless brain-powered computer game can help people regain movement in their arms.
Stroke is one of the leading causes of adult disability in Northern Ireland and for those who survive, up to 80 per cent experience arm or hand weakness.
This makes daily tasks like getting dressed, cooking, or writing extremely difficult.
However, brains are adaptable and through a process called neuroplasticity, other parts of the brain can take over lost functions.
This can be very successful when the right kind of rehabilitation is used.
Focusing on this, the Queen’s researchers, who work in the University’s School of Psychology, are kick-starting a one-year project using a new method.
Dr Kathy Ruddy is one of the lead researchers on the project.
She explains: “We are looking for 50 stroke survivors to take part in our new study.
We will be asking them to wear a simple headset that reads brain activity while they imagine moving their affected arm.
“The brain signals are picked up and used to control a computer game.
This form of “motor imagery” activates the same brain areas as real movement and it may help keep these body parts healthy and active after a stroke, even when actual movement isn’t yet possible.”
The project is being funded by Northern Ireland Chest Heart & Stroke: NICHS
A special information event will take place at Riddel Hall, Stranmillis, on Thursday 7 August from 11am-3pm.
Stroke survivors, carers and healthcare professionals are welcome to attend and find out more about the new rehabilitation research project.
For more information visit https://forms.office.com/e/zbK3pRXfRY or contact Caoimhe McCarney at cmccarney07@qub.ac.uk.
For media queries, please contact emma.gallagher@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/wip-students-return.html:
This week, eight Queen’s students returned from the prestigious Washington Ireland ‘Emerging Leaders’ Program having spent the past eight weeks on work placement in Washington DC.
Throughout the transatlantic programme, students gain exposure to US public administrative and advocacy systems and learn about US-based social challenges in settings such as Capitol Hill offices, nonprofits, research labs, and advocacy organisations.
The Washington Ireland Program was first initiated in 1995.
Each year, 30 emerging leaders are selected, who have demonstrated passion and ability to spark change in communities across the island of Ireland.
They are each assigned a high-profile placement in Washington DC, matched with respective students’ skills and interests.
Lauren Clements, a Psychology student at Queen’s spent her time in the States on placement at Capitol Hill for Congressman John Mannion from New York's 22nd District.
Lauren arrived at the University through its Widening Participation’s Pathway Opportunity Programme which supports students from underrepresented backgrounds on their journey to Queen’s.
Lauren shared: “The Pathway Programme at Queen’s was the perfect prerequisite to WIP.
Both experiences have really built my confidence, and WIP has grown my understanding of how policy and politics work in action through my work placement, and the many forms of leadership we were exposed to.
“I am passionate about advocating for a person-centred approach to medical care for vulnerable patients and WIP really instilled in me that leadership doesn’t have to be perfect to be powerful, and this concept, combined with the endless generosity shown to me by my host family, will forever inspire me to strive to create meaningful change.”
Declan McKeown just completed his third year of Physics with Astro-Physics at Queen’s.
He couples his interest in how the world operates at the most fundamental physical level, with a marked curiosity on what drives people at both an individual and societal level.
Having spent his time in Washington on placement at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Declan said: “These past eight weeks have been completely transformative both personally and professionally.
Meeting Dr.
Norah Patten who is set to become the first Irish woman in space and Eric Fanning, the former Secretary of the US Army and CEO of Aerospace International Associations, were some of my key highlights, as was delivering a quantum mechanics masterclass to my WIP peers.
“The programme constantly encouraged me to grow and step outside my comfort zone.
My host family’s curiosity and storytelling sparked so many inspiring conversations, I’ve gained lifelong friends, greater confidence, and a renewed drive to make a positive impact on others.”
The full list of Queen’s students participating in this year’s program are:
Notable Queen’s Alumni include deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland, Emma Little-Pengelly MLA (2002), Member of the Legislative Assembly and former Minister for Justice, Claire Sugden (2010), and former Seamus Heaney Centre Fellow, Tara McEvoy (2014).
For media enquiries contact alana.fisher@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/barriers-to-integrated-education-says-new-queens-research.html:
Schools in Northern Ireland wishing to transform to integrated status are experiencing significant barriers, despite recent legislation introduced to enhance provision of integrated education, new research from Queen’s has found.
Increasing numbers of schools in Northern Ireland are expressing interest in transforming to an integrated model, particularly since the Integrated Education Act 2022, which requires the Department of Education (DE) and the Education Authority (EA) to actively support integrated education.
But a new report from Queen’s, The Strengths and Weaknesses of the Integrated Education Transformation Process , identifies a number of road-blocks.
These include a lack of financial support for schools undergoing transformation; an unduly long time period before a decision on transformation is given by the DE; overly onerous application processes; and a lack of clarity around qualifying pupil numbers.
The report makes a number of recommendations, including:
According to the latest figures, around 70 out of 1,000 primary and post-primary schools across Northern Ireland are now integrated.
Of these, over 30 have transformed from controlled or Catholic-maintained schools (the majority from controlled).
The impetus for transformation usually comes from parents or a board of governors.
If enough parents are then demonstrated to be in support, a parental ballot will be held.
If the ballot is successful, a Development Plan is developed by the school and submitted to the DE as a formal application.
Earlier this year, Northern Ireland’s largest school, Bangor Academy, was turned down for transformation, reportedly because of concern the school would not be able to attract enough Catholics.
This was despite more than 40% of its intake being a mix of Catholic, other faiths and no religion; and a parental ballot of almost 80% said to be in favour of transformation.
Rathmore Primary School, also in Bangor, was similarly turned down in recent months, despite over 80% of parents and guardians reportedly in favour of transformation.
Report co-author Professor Joanne Hughes from the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work (SSESW) at Queen’s said:
“Schools do not undertake the decision to transform lightly, and the current process is lengthy, onerous and rigorous, requiring support for application from a whole school community.
“In a transitioning society, with increasing diversity and against the Minister’s recent decision to block two schools from transforming, our research suggests that it may be time to consider how integrated education is defined and communicated to reflect the core values of inclusion and diversity.”
Co-author Dr Rebecca Loader , also from SSESW at Queen’s added:
“There have been changes in the profile of schools electing to transform in recent years, with increasing numbers of sustainable schools, Catholic maintained schools and nursery schools passing ballots for transformation.
Our research highlights the need for a process that is responsive to the school’s context, size and scale of change, and can provide timely decisions.
“Moreover, if schools are to be supported to transform, in line with current legislation, then available funding must be adequate.”
Despite the challenges of transformation, however, all of the schools in the report sample regarded it as ultimately worthwhile, citing benefits including improved educational experience for pupils, better community relations and a stronger school brand.
All schools consulted also felt well supported by statutory and third-sector agencies, particularly the EA, NICIE and the Integrated Education Fund (IEF), which provide guidance and training on transformation.
One area where the report found some divergence was in the interpretation of the term ‘integrated’.
While some transforming schools adopted a ‘reconciliation’ model, based on ideas of peacebuilding between the two main religious and cultural traditions in Northern Ireland, others focussed on inclusion across a broader range of indicators including socio-economic background and academic ability.
The report recommends stakeholders consider an updated definition of ‘integrated’ in the context of a society that has seen many changes and become significantly more culturally diverse since the first integrated school, Lagan College Belfast, was established in 1981.
It also suggests training in multi-cultural education to minimise “well-intentioned but tokenistic approaches that can … reinforce boundaries between pupils of different backgrounds”.
The report was commissioned by the IEF and NICIE and includes a review of existing literature plus interviews with staff from transformed and transforming schools, including head teachers, teachers and governors; parents; and representatives from stakeholder groups.
Interviews were carried out between Nov 2023-March 2024, while the literature review and school census data spans 2010-2022.
Inquiries to Una Bradley u.bradley@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/warm-temperatures-water-peatlands.html:
European peatlands, which contain around half of Europe’s soil carbon, need a combination of warm temperatures and a water table of around 10 cm to thrive, a new study by Queen’s University Belfast researchers has found.
Peatlands form where there is a sustained build-up of partially decomposed plant matter, and they play a very important role in locking away greenhouse gases and absorbing industrial pollution.
In Europe, peatlands contain approximately five times more carbon than its forests.
However, they have been damaged by human activities including pollution, draining and climate change.
In a bid to understand the conditions needed to restore peatlands, Professor Graeme Swindles from the School of Natural and Built Environment at Queen’s University has been leading a team to calculate peat accumulation rates over the past 2,000 years.
They have been studying cores from 28 peat bogs across Europe.
The study, which has now been published in PLOS One , reveals that the fastest peat accumulation – nearly 0.5 cm per year – occurred around the Baltic Sea, at sites in Denmark, Poland, Sweden, and Finland which experience warm and humid summers.
The slowest peat accumulation was measured in northern Sweden, which experiences cold winters and a short growing season.
Across all sites, peat accumulated fastest in regions with warm summer temperatures, which improves plant growth, and a water table around 10 cm below the surface.
If the water table is too high, plants struggle to grow, and if the water table is too low, decomposers can rapidly break down peat as it develops.
Professor Swindles comments: “ Our study suggests that warmer summer temperatures could boost growth rates in European peatlands – but only if the water table stays high enough.
“We also found that maintaining a water table around 10 cm below the surface is key to allowing peat to grow quickly and store carbon over the long term.
These findings strengthen current evidence and have important implications for how we restore and rewet peatlands as part of global efforts to tackle climate change.”
Professor Swindles is also suggesting that previous peatland restoration programs should be evaluated to determine if their relative successes or deficiencies corroborate these findings.
The full paper is available here .
For media enquiries, please contact emma.gallagher@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured-research/queens-academic-elected-to-british-academy.html:
Professor Fionnuala Ní Aoláin from the School of Law has been elected to the British Academy's Fellowship for outstanding contribution to humanities and social sciences.
The only academic to be elected from a Northern Ireland university in 2025, Prof Ní Aoláin (pictured, below right) joins 58 new Fellows from 25 universities across the UK.
This year’s cohort sees an increased number of UK Fellows elected, due to new Fellowship places for candidates whose research spans more than one discipline.
There are also 30 new international Fellows spanning the United States, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, Singapore, China, Australia, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, and Cyprus.
Four Honorary Fellows have also been elected for 2025 in recognition of their exceptional achievements in music, art, journalism and librarianship.
Among this year’s newly elected Fellows are pioneering academics Professor Lily Kong BBM, PPA, FBA, the first Singaporean woman to lead a university in Singapore, and Professor Jonathan D Jansen FBA, the first Black Vice Chancellor and Rector of the University of the Free State, now Distinguished Professor of Education at Stellenbosch University.
They all join a community of over 1,800 scholars who share a commitment to advancing the humanities and social sciences.
Current British Academy Fellows include classicist Professor Dame Mary Beard, the historian and China expert Professor Rana Mitter and philosopher Professor Baroness Onora O’Neill.
The Academy also counts Professor David Olusoga, Baroness Brenda Hale, and Professor Gary Younge among its Honorary Fellows.
Commenting on the news, Prof Ní Aoláin said:
"I am really grateful for all the support Queen's has given me to undertake my research and teaching work, to achieve this honor.
I hope it will enable even greater reach and impact for my work and for Queen's School of Law."
Professor Susan J Smith PBA, new President of the British Academy, added:
"One of my first acts as the incoming President of the British Academy is to welcome this year’s newly elected Fellows.
What a line-up!
With specialisms ranging from the neuroscience of memory to the power of music and the structural causes of poverty, they represent the very best of the humanities and social sciences.
They bring years of experience, evidence-based arguments and innovative thinking to the profound challenges of our age: managing the economy, enabling democracy, and securing the quality of human life.
“This year, we have increased the number of new Fellows by nearly ten percent to cover some spaces between disciplines.
Champions of research excellence, every new Fellow enlarges our capacity to interpret the past, understand the present, and shape resilient, sustainable futures.
It is a privilege to extend my warmest congratulations to them all."
For the full list of all 92 Fellows elected in 2025, see British Academy website.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured/body-donation-programme-reopens.html:
The programme, which was temporarily paused in 2023, will welcome new expressions of interest, and resume acceptance of eligible donors currently on their registration list.
Body donations facilitate essential anatomy study for medical, dental and science students at the University.
Work under the scheme is carried out in compliance with the Human Tissue Act (2004).
Professor Alan Smyth, Dean and Head of School for Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, said:
“Our students and staff are profoundly grateful for the generosity of participants in our body donation scheme and their families.
Queen’s upholds the highest standards of care and professional practice in the examination of donor remains.
Our donors are ‘silent teachers’ for the next generation of doctors and health professionals.
This gift greatly enriches the teaching of anatomy for our students.
We are delighted that the scheme has reopened”
Further information on eligibility and time parameters for donations can be found here on Queen’s website , or by contacting anatomy@qub.ac.uk
For media enquiries contact comms.office@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/featured/steam-scheme-2025.html:
Queen’s University Belfast is proud to once again partner with the Market Development Association to deliver the STEAM Scheme, a summer programme aimed at empowering young people from the Market community of inner-south Belfast.
Running from 18–22 August, the initiative immerses participants in engaging educational experiences across the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM).
This year’s programme includes hands-on sessions in Queen’s world-leading facilities, including the cutting-edge medical simulation facility, the KN Cheung SK Chin InterSim Centre; and the Marine Laboratory in Portaferry.
The young people also experienced interactive outdoor activities hosted by the Queen's Community Archaeology Programme NI (CAPNI) and the Co-centre for Climate Biodiversity and Water.
The week will culminate in a special graduation ceremony on Friday 22 August to celebrate the participants' achievements.
Co-designed by Queen’s University and the Market Development Association, the STEAM Scheme is a flagship project of Queen’s Communities and Place (QCAP), a long-term initiative rooted in collaboration between academia and the local community.
By exposing young people to new academic and creative possibilities, the scheme aims to unlock potential and raise aspirations.
Dr Ryan Feeney, Vice-President, Strategic Engagement and External Affairs and Registrar at Queen’s, said:
“ Universities play a crucial role in shaping the communities they serve.
This initiative is a powerful example of how partnerships between academic institutions and local communities can drive meaningful, lasting change.
“The STEAM Scheme highlights Queen’s dedication to supporting the next generation.
It goes beyond enhancing education, it’s about fostering stronger, more connected communities.
“By working together, Queen’s and the Market Development Association are making education more inclusive and impactful, ensuring that young people from all backgrounds have access to the opportunities they need to thrive.”
The Market Development Association's Education and Training Manager, Ciaran Hargey, said:
“We’re proud to be working alongside Queen’s to bring this exciting STEAM programme to young people in the Market again this year.
"Opportunities like this spark curiosity and give them the confidence to see themselves as the next generation of innovators, problem-solvers, and leaders.
"Together, we’re giving our youth the chance to step into spaces they might not otherwise access and showing them that they belong in these places of innovation and discovery.”
Media inquiries to Queen’s Communications Office via email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk or tel: (028) 9097 3091.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/undergraduateopenday.html:
Our Undergraduate Open Day is the best way to get a taste of life at Queen's.
On Saturday 6 September from 9.30am - 3pm you’ll learn more about our courses that you can study with us, plus you’ll have the opportunity to hear first-hand from our current students and teaching staff about learning and living in Belfast.
You will be able to experience our world-class education, unique location and rich history for yourself.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/studentcampustour.html:
Explore the Queen’s campus and get acquainted with key locations to help familiarise yourself before you start classes.
There will be a maximum of 10 places per tour, allocated on a first come, first served basis.
You can join the tours from the Reception Desk on the ground floor in One Elmwood (our team will be wearing red jerseys).
The tours will be at 10am and 11am respectively

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/belfast-region-city-deal:
Through Belfast Region City Deal, our vision as a civic university is to bring lasting economic and social benefits to the people of Northern Ireland and beyond.
We are harnessing huge opportunities through collaboration with industry, government and communities.
The Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre, Momentum One Zero, and iREACH Health
We’re proud to be a key partner in the highly ambitious Belfast Region City Deal which will unlock £1billion of transformative co-investment to deliver over 20 ambitious projects and programmes.
With forward-thinking people and proven excellence in research capability we are well-placed to drive progress for generations to come through our data-driven Innovation Centres in advanced manufacturing, clinical research and secure, connected digital technologies.
City Deal is creating up to 20,000 new and better jobs and helping to make the region a global investment destination over the next decade.
We want to ensure the Centres help fulfil the vision for inclusive, sustainable economic growth that delivers more and better jobs.
Using cutting-edge technologies our experts are building on a track record of research excellence.
We’re working with forward-thinking partners to identify and address challenges within our factories, farms and clinical facilities.
Technology is key but it will always need skilled people to ensure it works in the best way.
Our Centres are focussed on looking to the future to ensure that Northern Ireland has the skilled workforce it needs to continue to innovate and drive technological advances.
Addressing economic and social challenges requires doing things differently, changing significantly and innovating continuously.
Solving big problems requires unprecedented levels of partnership.
Working with forward-thinking partners locally, nationally and globally we’re transforming our digital economy, reinvigorating our region’s industrial potential and supporting Northern Ireland’s ambitions to be a global leader in life and health sciences.
The Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre, Momentum One Zero and iREACH Health build on the areas where Queen’s has demonstrated research excellence.
These Centres are designed to address societal challenges by bringing together the ingenuity of the private sector, the enabling capacities of central and local governments, and the creativity and problem-solving capabilities of our global experts.
They will deliver on industry and regional priorities, drive civic and economic development for the people of Northern Ireland through the creation of 4,000 jobs, and impact the wellbeing of the world.
AMIC is a £100m collaborative, innovative powerhouse of advanced manufacturing set to elevate our region globally.
It is supporting economic growth and prosperity for Northern IreIand by creating high quality jobs and increasing inward investment through high value manufacturing innovation clusters.
iREACH Health is a £62m integrated clinical research centre which is patient-centred, pro-innovation and digitally enabled.
It brings together the expertise of clinicians, life scientists and data scientists with experienced industry partners to drive improved economic, health and social care outcomes.
Significantly expanding facilities at the Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT) the £70m project builds on proven research and capability in cybersecurity, wireless innovation and AI to tackle some of the world’s toughest challenges.
Together we will catalyse, commercialise and apply innovation to elevate our region, long famed for its inherent entrepreneurial spirit.
With planning permission secured for the Factory of the Future, AMIC’s appointed contractors, Henry Brothers, have started construction on our state-of-the-art Factory of the Future.
iREACH Health recently appointed Graham as construction contractor and main construction work has started on the Lisburn Road.
Momentum One Zero has received full planning approval and is consulting with partners to advance plans for new collaborative working spaces and tech infrastructure at its Titanic Quarter hub.
‎
EY Economists project that the three Queen’s Innovation Centres will deliver:
4,000+ JOBS
IN EXCESS OF £4BN ADDITIONAL GDP OVER 30 YEARS
18% PRODUCTIVITY UPLIFT
Our Innovation Centres are already live and delivering impact across the region, from a Smart City-Zens project in the Belfast Market area providing digital technology to tackle common urban problems, to supporting students in local schools to learn new skills for the jobs of the future.
Contact the Belfast Region City Deal team at Queen's University for more information, or if you'd like to be involved.
Email us at brcdinnovation@qub.ac.uk or get in touch with specific team members.
Sign up to our newsletter Follow us on Twitter Follow us on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/impact-on-society:
We have a responsibility to society to ensure access to education is fair and flexible, and that we embed key principals such as Sustainable Development Goals into our work.
We are invested in adding to a diverse and skilled society, with an excellent global reputation.
Our Annual Report 2021-2022 illustrates our achievements and progress in line with the objectives we have set under Strategy 2030.
Our Strategic Priorities show a commitment to and achievements in:
We provide enhanced wellbeing services and support in our new Student Centre and Students’ Union , #QUBeWell activity across campus delivering wellbeing projects and focus on fair and flexible access to an education through our Widening Participation programme.
Our diversity and inclusion programmes include work to support the participation and progression of women in Queen’s, resulting in 15 Athena Swan awards .
Subjects ranked in the top 10 in the UK
In the UK for graduate outcomes
Our new Postdoctoral Development Centre supports our Postdoc researchers and the new Agility Fund supports a range of research activity.
Find out more about innovation at Queen’s .
Of our research environment was assessed as world-leading or internationally recognised
most entrepreneurial university in the UK in 2022
We’re committed to making a meaningful impact on the world, attracting the brightest minds to research the global challenges of our age , enhancing our reputation and global partnerships, and improving our ranking on global league tables.
Ranked as one of the Top 200 universities in the world for impact
Total international students
We lead on innovative projects and adding value to the wider economy.
A key element is the progression of the Belfast Region City Deal with Queen’s leading on three innovative projects.
Queen’s has pledged a multimillion pound investment in a Sustainability Action Plan to help play its part in tackling the global climate emergency.
And Queen’s continues to have a local impact on our city and region.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/belfast:
Belfast stands as an inviting capital city that's easy to get around and affordable, making it an ideal location for students to study.
The city flourishes as a vibrant hub for great cuisine, culture, arts and shopping, and our university holds its place at the centre of Belfast's social and cultural life.
Delve into Belfast's capitivating journey to its present-day status and uncover its history and evolution.
The history of Belfast
Going to university is a major milestone, but the costs of studying and managing money effectively can be a concern for many students.
See how Queen's University compares with other universities in key costs including tuition fees, accommodation, weekly groceries and travel expenses.
Student Living Costs
Queen's Quarter, named after the university, is the southernmost quarter in Belfast and as a student, you'll be spending a lot of your time in and around this area.
Not only is this quarter home to our university, but while you're not in lectures you can visit many of the amazing coffee shops, restaurants, museums or the Queen's Film Theatre.
Find out what our students love most about Queen's Quarter.
Here in Belfast, there are endless things to do - whether you want to soak up the history of the city, visit famous landmarks, or catch a show, there's plenty to keep you busy.
With input from our student bloggers, we have created a map that is your ticket to uncovering some of Belfast's top things to do and see while studying here.
Things to do as a student in Belfast Beyond Belfast:Exploring Northern Ireland
Worried about how to get here?
Here's what you need to know about arriving in Belfast.
We share everything you need to know about living in Northern Ireland as someone who has never been here before.
Discover firsthand from our students what the experience of studying in Belfast is all about, and hear about their journey at Queen's University so far.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Awards-and-accreditations:
We are a member of the Russell Group of 24 leading UK research-intensive universities committed to maintaining the highest standards of research, education and knowledge transfer.
Russell Group universities are major international institutions which also have a strong national and regional role and influence.
Russell Group Universities
Queen's is ranked top 200 in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026) ranked 6 in the world for international outlook (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025); and 99% of our research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021).
Rankings and Reputation
We have been awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education on seven occasions.
This was for our work in strengthening global cyber security, for Northern Ireland's Comprehensive Cancer Services programme and for world-class achievement in green chemistry, environmental research, palaeoecology, shared education and law.
Queen's Anniversary Prizes
Queen's University currently holds a prestigious Athena Swan Gold Award.
The University also holds 15 Departmental Awards (3 Gold, 6 Silver and 6 Bronze).
The Advance HE Athena Swan Charter is used internationally as a framework to support the advancement of gender equality within higher education and research.
The Charter was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research.
Queen's University Belfast has been a member of the Athena Swan Charter since its formation in 2005.
Gender Equality at Queen's
QAA checks how UK universities and colleges maintain the standard of their higher education provision.
Read the latest report
The University has retained the European Commission’s HR in Excellence in Research Award following a two year self-assessment.
The award endorses the support provided for our research staff to develop their skills and career development opportunities, and providing a clear plan of action for future developments.
Including, a focus on mentoring and induction for research staff and developing faculty specific professional and career development activity.
Queen's has been awarded the Silver Diversity Mark by Diversity Mark in December 2021, in recognition of its commitment to advancing gender diversity, and the progress made at Queen’s in advancing gender, race and disability equality, and its ambitious plans to do more in these spaces.
The Diversity Charter Mark accreditation is awarded to organisations following an independent assessment process and the Silver Award reflects significant progress since the University was awarded Bronze almost three years ago.
Queen’s is one of only 10 organisations to achieve the Silver Diversity Mark sharing a platform with other leading employers such as Belfast City Council, Danske Bank, FinTru and Liberty IT.
Diversity and Inclusion
The National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) – part of GCHQ – awarded us Silver recognition for first-rate cyber security education on campus and promoting cyber skills in its community.
In addition, Queen’s Management School was awarded the prestigious EQUIS accreditation for management and business schools, becoming one of only 197 such schools worldwide to achieve this distinction.
Find out more
Queen’s has been recognised for a second consecutive year in the Green Flag Awards after becoming the first university in Northern Ireland to be recognised by the scheme.
The Green Flag Award is the benchmark national standard for parks and green spaces in the UK.
It was first launched in 1996 to recognise and reward the best green spaces in the country and is an internationally recognised certification for environmental quality management for parks and open spaces.
We've also achieved Platinum status for the third year running in the Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey.
By paying the real Living Wage, employers are voluntarily taking a stand to ensure their employees can earn a wage which is enough to live on.
Queen’s has already been paying its employees the Real Living Wage since 2022, and the recent accreditation officially recognises the University’s commitment to ensure employees and any regularly contracted workers are paid the living wage hourly rate.
Queen’s University Belfast is first and only university in the UK to be awarded a Sustainability Tracking, Assessment and Rating System (STARS) rating, a significant milestone that highlights our dedication to sustainability within higher education.
STARS is a globally recognised, transparent and comprehensive framework that measures the sustainability performance of colleges and universities across their research, education, outreach and operational activities.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QueensGenderInitiative/AthenaSwan:
Queen’s University Belfast has been awarded a prestigious Gold Athena Swan Award, conferred in January 2024 by Advance HE.
The Queen’s Equality Survey, conducted from 24 March to 26 April 2023, offers insights into staff experiences, highlighting successes and areas for growth.
The results are summarised in three bitesize documents:
Your feedback continues to shape our strategies, inform our Equality Charters, and guide initiatives like the Athena Swan Charter and Race Equality Charter.
This work also contributed to our recent success in achieving the Institutional Athena Swan Gold Award in January 2024.
Explore the survey results and learn more about our ongoing commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion.
"Congratulations on Queen's achieving Athena Swan gold status.
Such a well-deserved recognition.
Please extend my gratitude to Professor McCloskey for her leadership.”
The Advance HE review panel recognised the University’s extensive experience in undertaking gender equality work and addressing gender inequality, and awarded the University the highest score possible across all six criteria.
Welcoming news of the Gold Award, Queen’s President and Vice Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer said:
“We are absolutely thrilled to become the first university on the island of Ireland and the second in the UK to achieve an institutional Athena Swan Gold Award.
The wider Equality, Diversity and Inclusion agenda underpins everything that we do here at Queen’s.
Many might think of EDI as some modern, contemporary idea but it’s been a foundation principle at this University for more than 100 years – embedded within our historic Charter, and today stands as a cornerstone of Queen’s Strategy 2030.
“As we celebrate this incredible achievement, it’s important to also reflect on how far we’ve come – opening in 1845 with men-only enrolment for more than three decades, to today standing as an institution that leads the way in gender equality and with a woman at the helm as Chancellor.
I extend my warmest congratulations to all of my colleagues across Queen’s who have worked hard to deliver what is truly a remarkable feat.
And this work will of course continue.”
Adding to the Vice-Chancellor’s comments, Professor Karen McCloskey, Former Director of Queen’s Gender Initiative and Professor of Physiology, Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research said:
“Colleagues, both past and present, have worked tirelessly to make these vital improvements to ensure people at Queen’s can thrive in an inclusive and supportive culture.
I would like to acknowledge the ongoing contribution of committed champions and networks of staff and students who build on the legacy of outstanding women graduates and leaders.
Our ambitious Gold action plan challenges us to extend our reach, to nurture future leaders and further advance  gender equality.
The Gold award is a fantastic achievement for the University and will spur us on to continue this important work.”
On Thursday 30 May 2024, Queen's held a programme of events to celebrate its institutional Athena Swan Gold Award, and the University's progress and commitment to gender equality.
The Athena Swan Gold celebration event was held in the Whitla Hall and included keynotes, a poetry reading, lightning talks, musical items and a dynamic panel discussion.
Lunch and ice-cream were also provided from food trucks at the Lanyon Building.
A second celebration event – 'Reflections: A 25-year Journey in Gender Equality' – was held earlier that day in the Canada Room and Council Chamber, featuring ‘in conversation’ reflections with current and former key members of Queen's Gender Initiative (QGI) and Athena Swan committees.
The event also featured a formal lunch for key stakeholders, enabling deeper conversation on the University’s ethos of active inclusion.
Read more on the celebrations here .
This was to update staff on the Athena Swan programme and gender equality activities at Queen’s.
This included areas of progress and priorities for the next five years.
In addition to an institutional Gold Athena Swan Award, Queen's also holds 15 School Awards comprising 4 Gold, 6 Silver and 5 Bronze.
Much of the University's work aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and the work of QGI particularly identifies with Goal 5.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Awards-and-accreditations/Queen's-Anniversary-Prizes:
Through its model of cross-sectoral school collaboration, using a strong academic research base, Shared Education has become a core pillar of education policy and practice in Northern Ireland and has been adopted by educators and policymakers in other divided societies across the world.
Beginning as a pilot programme with just 12 schools in 2007, Shared Education has grown in over a decade to more than 700 schools and over 60,000 pupils now involved in regular, shared classes with Schools from different denominations.
More about Shared Education at Queen’s >
Honoured for its work in protecting online activity of billions of internet users around the world, the Centre for Secure Information Technologies (CSIT) is home to the UK’s largest cyber-security research cluster
It has developed breakthrough innovations, including anti-counterfeit technology to prevent internet fraud; and new processors to deliver filtered internet to homes and businesses, stripping out viruses, malware and malicious content.
In partnership with the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, the University-led Comprehensive Cancer Centre was recognised for its cancer research and services
A team of scientists and clinicians has achieved improved survival rates for cancer patients through better screening and a range of therapies, including research into making radiotherapy less harmful to healthy tissue, the development of personalised medicine, and genetically determining how patients will respond to cancer treatments.
Queen’s University Ionic Liquid Laboratories (QUILL) are world leaders in ionic liquids – liquid salts that act as a clean alternative to more polluting solvents as they do not release fumes
QUILL’s work is helping the UK chemical industry move to greener and more profitable production.
In 2011, Professor Ken Seddon and Dr John Holbrey ranked first and second in the Times Higher Education’s 100 Top Chemists of the Past Decade.
The Palaeoecology Centre’s research into environmental history has played a pivotal role in researching and developing techniques for dating the past
It combines an internationally acclaimed tree-ring dating laboratory, a carbon dating facility and an archive of dated wood from the British Isles.
These enable the Centre to study past environmental events, analyse more recent environmental change and measure future change.
The QUESTOR Centre conducts environmental research into problems associated with industrial pollution
The Centre’s work includes water and wastewater treatment, environmental remediation and monitoring, and production of energy from biomass; encouraging close collaboration between academics and industry in Europe and further afield
The Servicing the Legal System (SLS) programme provides information on the law and the legal system in Northern Ireland
Through providing courses, talks and publications, the SLS addresses issues arising from numerous constitutional changes, not only benefitting members of the legal profession but a wide range of other professional groups.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/website/privacy-and-cookies:
Queen's University Belfast is committed to transparency and to complying with its responsibilities under the data protection legislation.
The following information will help you to understand how the University manages and protects personal data.
Whether you are a student, member of staff, service user or an organisation, your privacy is important to us.
Our privacy notice(s) aim to advise you on the way we look after your data at various stages.
Find out more and search for a specific privacy notice .
The University has a dedicated Information and Compliance Unit which is responsible for overseeing University compliance with Freedom of Information, Data Protection legislation and best practice in information governance.
For more information please visit the Information and Compliance Unit website .
A cookie is a small text file that is downloaded to your personal computer, mobile phone or other device when you visit a website.
When you return to a website it uses this cookie to 'remember' some of the things you did during a previous visit.
For example, if you are using the same computer, and previously took an action to dismiss a prompt or alert message on a certain area of a website, you will not see that prompt or alert message again (assuming that you haven't deleted the related cookie).
Cookies typically store the name of the domain or website you are visiting, the duration or lifetime of the cookie, and one or more unique and randomly generated content values.
Cookies are used in places on this website to store your preferences and to improve the overall user experience.
Please be aware that some areas of our website will not function as expected if you do not consent to the use of cookies.
Queen's University Belfast does not use cookies to collect or store any personal information such as your name, date of birth, email address or home address.
You can choose to manually disable cookies on your computer, or delete existing cookies by adjusting your browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit www.allaboutcookies.org .
Strictly necessary cookies These will generally be used to store a unique identifier to manage and identify the user as unique to other users currently viewing the website, in order to provide a consistent and accurate service to the user.
Functionality cookies Will typically be the result of a user action, but might also be implemented in the delivery of a service not explicitly requested but offered to the user.
They can also be used to prevent the user being offered a service again that had previously been offered to that user and rejected.
Performance cookies These are limited to performance and website improvement.
Targeting/advertising cookies These contain a unique key that is able to distinguish individual users’ browsing habits or store a code that can be translated into a set of browsing habits or preferences using information stored elsewhere.
Please find below a list of cookies used on the University website and online environments.
_gid Used by Google Universal Analytics to store and update a unique value for each page visited.
Cookies necessary for login, search and session management.Plus additional cookies associated with Google Analytics.
(This site will automatically create more cookies through its interactions with Amazon (7 cookies), Google (2 cookies) and Myilibrary (3 cookies) if you avail of specific sections of the site.
These are outside the control of the University.)
Dynamics365PortalAnalytics
Critical service cookie to analyse service usage anonymously and aggregated for statistical purpose.
From time to time we may link from our website to external websites that set cookies on your machine, please note such websites are outside the University’s control and are not covered by this cookie statement.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/website/accessibility-statement:
Queen's University Belfast is committed to making its website(s) accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to content published by the University’s Web Content Management System (Web CMS) to https://www.qub.ac.uk .
This statement does not apply to content on sub domains, for example, service.qub.ac.uk, or other systems or services that publish content to the www.qub.ac.uk subdomain.
Digital accessibility is a primary consideration in our web development practices as we want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Parts of this website are not fully accessible.
For example:
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
Not applicable.
PDFs and other documen ts
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents do not meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be structured so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
This does not meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role value).
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Live video
Live video streams do not have captions.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.4 (captions - live).
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Archived Websites
There is a small number of websites published via the CMS that are currently set to archive status.
These websites are not used to provide any services and they are no longer updated.
Third-Party Content
The University has a varying number of pages which contain content that is externally embedded or integrated.
This externally embedded content can include but is not limited to information from social media platforms, chatbots, online forms and peer platforms.
This is third-party content that is neither funded nor developed by us, nor under our control.
This statement was prepared on 9 March 2020.
This website is tested via the Siteimprove Digital Governance Platform, which crawls our website every seven days, and checks our content against the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2.
The websites, pages and content crawled and tested are as follows:
The statement was last reviewed on 3 April 2025.
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please email: digital@qub.ac.uk .
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please email: cms@qub.ac.uk .
The Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) .
We are continually reviewing the accessibility of our website using automated tools and other testing methods where necessary.
This will provide us with the insights required to assess and improve aspects of our websites that do not conform to level AA of the WCAG 2.2.
An Accessibility section has been added to the Web CMS website and includes an Accessible Content Guidance resource for staff to refer to and follow when creating content within the Web CMS.
We have updated our core 'content template' guidance , so that content creators and editors are more aware of how these Web CMS assets should be used in order to conform with accessibility requirements.
We introduced a registration process in October 2020 , for website owners and content editors within the CMS, to access and use the Siteimprove digital governance platform.
As part of this process, registrants received access to their dedicated website(s) and dashboard reports.
These reports highlight any accessibility issues and has assisted Web CMS users with taking necessary remedial action.
Registrants also receive scheduled accessibility reports for their website(s) via email on a fortnightly basis.
We have continued to improve integrations between both platforms (Web CMS & Siteimprove) to make the process of implementing accessibility fixes easier for website owners and content editors in the Web CMS.
Our guidance continues to evolve with these changes.
We are also reviewing our website governance practices and will be implementing advisory and control protocols to ensure that University staff are aware of their obligations when creating content for the University’s website.
This is also part of our work under the institutional Disability Action Plan and Equality Scheme Action Plan.
We are also moving our web content into newer templates which have accessibility features built into them from the start.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/information-compliance-unit/foi:
Freedom of Information Act 2000 The Freedom of Information Act 2000 gives you the right to request recorded information held by the University, for example records of meetings, expenditure and research.
Queen's University Belfast is subject to the Freedom of Information Act and, as such, is committed to ensuring that information held by the University is made available to the public whenever it is possible and/or appropriate to do so within its terms.
The University's policy on Freedom of Information can be accessed here .
Environmental Information Regulations 2004
The Environmental Information Regulations 2004 give you the right to request environmental information held by the University, for example information on emissions and/or energy use.
Requests for Information Under Freedom of Information, members of the public are entitled to request, in writing, information that is held by the University and, subject to certain exemptions, to have that information supplied to them within 20 working days.
Requests for information under the Environmental Information Regulations may be made verbally, however, in order to process your request as effectively and efficiently as possible we recommend these are also provided in writing.
To make a request contact the Information Compliance Unit providing your full name, contact details, and describe in as much detail as you can the information you would like.
Please note that a full name is required for a request to be valid.
Email: foi@qub.ac.uk
Or write to:
Information Compliance Unit University Secretary's Office Queen's University Belfast Belfast BT7 1NN
Is the information you are seeking already available?
The University proactively publishes a wealth of information on our website.
Before making a request, save time by checking if the information is already available by using the search function on our website.
Published information
The Freedom of Information Act also requires the University to make certain types of information publicly available through our "Publication Scheme".
In most cases this information is accessible on our website.
If you would prefer not to access the information via the internet, or have an accessibility requirement, please contact the Information Compliance Unit.
Information about yourself
Data Protection legislation gives you the right to request the information the University holds about you - this is referred to as a subject access request.
To find out more about how to make a subject access request please check our our dedicated page here.
Contact
For further information on Freedom of Information at Queen's contact:
Sandra McDonald/Shauneen Killyleagh Information Compliance Unit University Secretary's Office Queen's University Belfast Belfast BT7 1NN foi@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/modern-slavery-statement:
Modern Slavery is a crime, and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We are committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
Find our current and previous Modern Slavery Statements below:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/HumanResources/diversity-and-inclusion:
The diversity and inclusion team is helping to create a culture that is inclusive at all levels, in every system and process.
Here, you will find a confidential source of advice and support to individual staff members on equality, diversity and inclusion issues as well providing the appropriate equality, diversity and inclusion training for staff.
Queen's is committed to equality, and to promoting and celebrating equality and diversity in the workplace and on campus generally.
Find out more and view the calendar
The University's staff networks have been established to connect staff and celebrate the diversity of our community.
Find out more and join a network
Our objectives are aligned with the Corporate Plan and our Staff Charter .
For practical application of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policies, contact your HR Business Partner .
For confidential advice, please contact:
Tel: 028 9097 3039 or 028 9097 1046
Email: eqdiv@qub.ac.uk
Diversity and Inclusion Unit undertakes a wide range of data analysis and reporting.
Some of this activity is driven by our statutory responsibilities to help shape our workplace policies, processes and equality/ diversity training for staff.
Please click on the links below to access more information.
Please note that some of these webpages are under development and may not be active yet.
If you require any information in alternative formats, please contact Leeann Matchett or Heather Callighan .
The Equality Screening page has been produced for staff, to help them understand the importance of equality screening.
Queen's is at the forefront of gender equality and a recognised leader in equality initiatives.
We currently hold four Gold, six Silver, five Bronze Departmental Athena SWAN Awards and a Silver Institutional Award.
We support the principle of equal pay for work of equal value and recognise that we should operate a pay system that is free from bias and based on merit.
The University undertakes an equal pay audit of all contracted employees every three years and develops an action plan of recommendations to address any identified equal pay gaps.
Please click on the link below for summary findings from our most recent Equal Pay Audit.
If you require any further information in relation to the audit please email us at eqdiv@qub.ac.uk
Equal Pay Audit 2023
The University voluntarily began monitoring its workforce in 1988 and under the Fair Employment Legislation has a statutory duty to monitor the religious composition of its workforce and applicants for employment.
The University has been submitting annual returns on this data to the Equality Commission since 1990.
The scope of the Fair Employment Monitoring Regulations includes leavers and promotees.
Please click on the links below to download statistics for full-time University staff:
The Equality Commission for Northern Ireland recommends that public authorities commit to conduct an annual review of progress on the implementation of their Equality Schemes.
Section 75 Annual Progress Report 22-23

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/policies:
The University is committed to ensuring that it makes investment decisions responsibly and with integrity, taking into account the legal view that the Trustees’ primary and overarching duty is to further the purposes of the University and its Trust funds.
The Planning and Finance Committee approved the latest version of the Policy at is meeting on 6 March 2024.
The Policy is reviewed on an annual basis by the Investment Committee and any recommendations for change are considered by the Planning and Finance Committee whose membership reflects key stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International:
Connect with us via live online events or chat, to find out about studying in Northern Ireland, and life at Queen’s University Belfast.
Virtual tours Latest Events

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites:
This area contains sites that are hosted by the University and are transient in nature.
Generally they will have their own look and feel, different from core University sites.
Current sites in this category include:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/ProfessionalSupportJobs:
If you are interested in INTO jobs please click here .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/AdministrationOfficerJobs:
Current Administration Officer Vacancies
Find out more >>
The Application Process
Total Reward at Queen's
﹒
We particularly welcome applications from males, as they are currently underrepresented in administration roles across the university.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/CasualAdministrativeWork:
The University will on occasion require temporary administration support to cover short-term employment gaps as a result of sickness absence, holidays, special projects, etc.
The period of employment can vary from a few days to a few weeks (normally a maximum of 12 weeks).
To view current opportunities please use the following link which will take you to QWork: https://www.q-work.co.uk/
Through QWork, you can register your interest in working on a casual basis on QUB Campus, search and apply for work, manage your assignments, accessible from anywhere at any time through the QWork portal.
For queries regarding this please contact qworkadmin@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/CasualTechnicalWork:
The Faculty of EPS will, on occasion, require temporary technical support.
Applicants on the casual register will provide short-term cover for employment gaps as a result of sickness absence, holidays, special projects, etc.
The period of engagement for casual technicians may extend up to a maximum of 12 weeks.
To register your interest for casual electrical, mechanical, IT and general lab technicians please register for QWork via the link below and highlight your job preferences within your profile.
Through QWork, you can register your interest in working on a casual basis on QUB Campus, view opportunities, apply for and manage your assignments, accessible from anywhere at any time through QWork portal.
How do I register to undertake casual work in QUB?
If you wish to undertake casual work on campus you should follow QWork link to register on the system - https://www.q-work.co.uk/
QWork performs best using the latest version of Google Chrome.
On the website you will see the below page.
Click on red button ‘Join QWork’, it will direct you to either student / non student registration, please chose the one relevant to you by clicking on the photo above the details to progress to registration.
You will need (as a minimum):
https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/articles/national-insurance-numbers
https://www.gov.uk/apply-national-insurance-number
As soon as your NINO is available, please send it to QWorkAdmin@qub.ac.uk to ensure your tax and NIC calculations are accurate.
You MUST input your bank account details to ensure you can progress in the registration and to ensure you can be paid.
Once you are fully registered you will receive a Welcome Email from QWork detailing how to complete your Right to Work check.
Please check your junk mail.
You must have completed the registration process in full to receive the Welcome email.
For further details and any queries relating to this please contact: qworkrecruitment@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBJobVacancies/Contactus:
People and Culture Queen's University Belfast, BT7 1NN.
Email: resourcing@qub.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 28 9097 3044

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/HumanResources/managers/recruitment-and-selection:
The University is committed to adhering to recruitment best practice and providing equality of opportunity for all applicants.
This is intended to ensure that the University appoints the best person for every post and that decisions are based on job related criteria.
It builds upon principles which will promote equality of opportunity.
Below you will find the answers to some of the most common questions we are asked by candidates.
If you can't find the answer you are looking for here, please contact resourcing@qub.ac.uk and the team will be happy to help.
If you are a Hiring Manager at Queen's and need information on Recruitment and Selection, please visit our Staff Intranet.
Our current vacancies are advertised here .
Further guidance on applying is available by clicking here .
Current members of staff must apply via Employee Self Service.
After accessing Employee Self Service click on the person icon in the top right hand corner, choose  Useful Links and select the Web recruitment - All jobs link.
Please use the 'Forgotten your password?
' link which will inform you of your username and allow you to create a new password.
Should you enter your login details incorrectly 3 times your account will be locked.
In this situation you should email hrhub@qub.ac.uk to request the account is re-activated.
The closing date for all jobs is clearly stated within the Job Details and Candidate Information for each post.
The deadline for receipt of applications is 11.59pm on the closing date.
Check that you’ve completed all mandatory fields.
On the Application Summary page there should be a tick next to each page of the application form.
If you don’t have a tick, click on the page, and enter information into the mandatory field you’ve left blank .
Once you have done so, the apply button should be activated.
Unfortunately, once you hav e submitted your application online, you cannot make any changes to it .
We advise all candidates to check their application fully before submitting .
Once the deadline has passed, no further applications will be accepted.
You can register your interest in temporary posts by visiting our Q Work website here .
In accordance with the University’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy, we seek to ensure that all candidates, regardless of disability, can participate fully in the selection process.
The University will provide reasonable adjustments to disabled applicants throughout the recruitment process.
Forms are available in a range of formats, font size or in Braille or audio formats.
If applicants require any support during the selection process, they will be asked to disclose at application or they can contact resourcing@qub.ac.uk .
For further information regarding Equal Opportunities matters visit the Diversity and Inclusion section of this site.
You will receive a confirmation email from us after submitting your application .
You wil l be kept up to date via email with any progression through the recruitment process.
This error message usually appears when one and/or two things occur:
Please try again, taking note of the above.
Once the vacancy has closed the shortlist panel will review all applications and agree which candidates they would like to invite for interview.
After shortlisting has been completed, all candidates will receive an email confirming the outcome of their application.
Feedback by People and Culture is not provided to unsuccessful applicants at shortlisting, due to the high volume of applications received.
After the closing date for the job vacancy, all applications will be considered by the selection panel at the shortlisting stage.
For senior posts, or job vacancies that have a very large response, this may be preceded by an initial long-listing stage to identify applicants who meet the essential criteria.
Candidates who are not long- or short-listed will be informed by email.
Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend the next stage in the selection process and will usually be given at least one weeks’ notice to prepare for this.
Anticipated interview dates are often listed on the Candidate Information document.
This stage usually involves an interview and may also include other selection methods as appropriate, such as a presentation or a work-based exercise; full details will be provided when candidates are invited to attend.
References will also be taken up at this stage for academic posts but will only be requested with your prior permission.
If you are unsuccessful at any stage in the process, you will receive an email confirming this.
Unfortunately, due to the volume of applications received, we are unable to provide feedback at shortlisting stage .
Applications are shortlisted based on the criteria detailed in the Candidate Information.
The application process for academic roles requires you to provide the contact details of two referees who can be contacted with your prior permission, to provide an employment reference regarding your suitability for the job.
For all other roles , references will be requested at the point of a job offer.
As part of our focus on digital provision and sustainability, Queen’s University Belfast will endeavour to utilise virtual interviewing where possible.
Details regarding the location of your interview will be displayed when you log in to select an interview slot.
This will be sent to you by the panel prior to the interview date.
Please ensure you check your junk mail folders.
If you haven’t used Teams before for a meeting, you need to select ‘Join’ and leave your camera and microphone on.
For further information on Microsoft Teams please refer to our instruction summary: How to use Teams – Candidate
Please click here for further information on travelling to the University .
A campus map is also available on this website.
We seek individuals for a diverse range of teaching support, professional services and operational roles for both students and non-students.
QWork promotes exclusive access to a wide range of work across the University.
The University’s Real Living Wage is £12.00 per hour from 1st April 2024.
Current Vacancies and News items can be viewed on the QWork website.
Please follow the links below for more information on Teaching Assistants:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/HumanResources/work-at-queens/international-staff-support:
Our University has many international staff working alongside colleagues from across the United Kingdom and Ireland.
The International Staff Support Team provides prospective and current Queen's University Belfast staff with immigration and other relevant advice and signposting to support and assist them.
Queen’s is a globally connected and networked University with strategic partnerships across the world, helping us to expand our impact on wider society locally, nationally, and globally.
We welcome staff and students from across the globe and our international staff are an intrinsic and valued part of our academic life, university community and wider society here in Belfast and Northern Ireland.
As Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast, I am delighted you are interested in a position with the University.
Queen’s is an exciting place, a place that delivers both local and international impact.
This makes us a global top 200 university, based in Belfast, a modern capital city known for its welcome and accessibility.
It is a great place to live and work and we are immensely proud of what our city and our University will offer you.
Professor Sir Ian Greer President and Vice-Chancellor
This guide will help you as you prepare to embark on your new journey at Queen’s.
Dr Ving Fai Chan discusses his recent Staff Excellence Award win for Making an Impact and what it meant to him.
Dr Eiman Abdel Meguid is now a Reader (Education) in the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences.
BLOG: '"Its people have learned to adapt their lifestyle to suit the river": The living heritage of Majuli'
Based in the McClay Library, Liang performs a dual academic and professional support role for the University, centred around language support.
BLOG: 'Our Civic Mission'

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/HumanResources/pay-reward-and-benefits:
From competitive salaries and generous annual leave to an attractive pension scheme and extensive professional development opportunities, Queen's is dedicated to fostering a supportive and rewarding work environment.
Employees also enjoy access to health and wellbeing initiatives, family-friendly policies, and a vibrant campus community.
We are committed to being a great place to work for our staff.
Discover our comprehensive employment package and competitive pay.
Explore our two main pension schemes, the Retirement Benefits Plan (RBP) and the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS).
Enjoy a generous holiday entitlement of 8.6 weeks a year (25 days annual leave, 9 closure days and 9 bank holidays).
Access a range of policies and services to support parents and carers, including flexible working and our Staff Carers Network.
Empower yourself to take charge of your development and career progression through the diverse opportunities we offer.
Experience our commitment to recognising employees for their outstanding performance, significant contribution, and accomplishments through a range of recognition awards.
Prioritise your well-being with our approach under four key themes: Healthy Mind, Physical Health, Home Life, and Be Connected.
Take advantage of our on-site childcare services and Summer Scheme for a family-friendly work environment.
Access a range of staff discounts, including our Employee Discounts Scheme, and enjoy discounted rates at Queen's Film Theatre, Queen's Welcome Centre, Open Learning, and Queen's Sport membership.
Benefit from relocation expenses and events and resources designed to support your financial well-being.
Explore where historic buildings meet modern study spaces, including our world-class facilities and the new Student Centre and Students' Union.
Join us in our commitment to Sustainable Travel with offerings like the Cycle to Work Scheme and interest-free loans for staff purchasing public transport travel cards.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QueensGenderInitiative:
Queen’s Gender Initiative (QGI) is a female-focussed entity that works to enhance the participation and visibility of women in all aspects of University life.
QGI was established following the work of the Women’s Forum that was set up in 1999, with the support of the then Vice Chancellor, to progress gender equality in Queen’s.
A series of listening exercises, led by a group of senior women, engaged with women at all grades across the University and resulted in a portfolio of recommendations to address inequalities.
These were adopted in full and work over the last 26 years continues to address gender imbalance through initiatives, projects and influencing structures and policy.
Queen’s work in gender equality has been externally reviewed and recognised in a series of Athena Swan awards (Advance HE) to the Institution and our individual Schools.
QGI'S OBJECTIVES:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/StaffNetworks:
The networks provide an opportunity for colleagues to meet in a friendly, informal way, enabling them to discuss ideas and experiences, share knowledge and support each other.
A NETWORK FOR STAFF WHO HAVE A DISABILITY OR LONG-TERM CONDITION
The Staff Disability Support Network was established in 2020 as an opportunity to improve the experience of disabled staff through peer support and shared experiences, to raise awareness and feedback to the University on relevant matters.
A NETWORK FOR STAFF WITH PARENTING RESPONSIBILITIES
The Parents Network is an inclusive, welcoming group set up in September 2022 to offer a virtual space in which staff with parenting responsibilities can provide a support network to each other and share advice.
THE UNIVERSITY'S LGBT+ STAFF NETWORK
Launched in November 2018, the purpose of PRISM is to provide a safe, welcoming space for LGBT+ staff in Queen's to regularly meet during work hours, to discuss LGBT+ issues, work matters and to plan social events both on and off campus.
THE UNIVERSITY'S BLACK, ASIAN, MINORITY ETHNIC (BAME) AND INTERNATIONAL STAFF NETWORK
Established in June 2019, iRise promotes the University as a welcoming place to work for BAME and International staff and represents the interests of BAME and International staff to the University.
A NETWORK FOR STAFF WITH CARING RESPONSIBILITIES
The Carers’ Network for Queen's staff was established in 2020 to bring staff together in a welcoming space to support each other, share experiences and information and feedback to the University on relevant matters.
TECHNICIANS MAKE IT HAPPEN: A NETWORK FOR TECHNICIANS AT QUEEN'S
Queen’s University Belfast is a founding signatory of the National Technician Commitment, a national initiative which aims to ensure visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians across all disciplines working in higher education and research.
CONNECTING RESEARCH ACTIVE MEMBERS OF STAFF WHO ARE AFRICA-BORN OR OF AFRICAN DESCENT
The African Scholars Research Network (AfSRN) is for members of staff Africa-born or of African descent in Northern Ireland who are research active, including those reading for their postgraduate degree, researchers and academics.
Its vision is to become a collective voice and home for African scholars to flourish.
CONNECTING RESEARCH AND INNOVATION SUPPORT PROFESSIONALS
The Research and Innovation Professionals Network is open to Queen’s staff at all grades who support or enable research and innovation activity as part of their job, including those in professional services, technical, clerical, and administrative roles.
The Network aims to connect research and innovation support professionals to share experiences and best practice, discuss common challenges towards effective solutions, innovate, and develop stronger working relationships.
For any further information on the Network, please email rpo@qub.ac.uk .
A STAFF NETWORK FOR LINGUISTIC DIVERSITY AND MINORITY LANGUAGES
This is a peer network open to all staff who are interested in celebrating and promoting minority languages and linguistic diversity on campus.
CONNECTING COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING PROFESSIONALS ACROSS QUEEN'S
The Communications and Marketing Staff Network has established an MS Teams group as a virtual space in which communications and marketing staff across Queen's can share relevant information, including events and campaigns; find out about training opportunities that might be of interest; and get to know other communications and marketing professionals at the University.
Communications or marketing professionals at all grades are welcome.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/staff-charter:
At Queen’s University, our people are at the centre of what we do and how we do it.
Our core values, Excellence, Connectivity, Ambition, Respect and Integrity, were developed in 2016 to support the University’s vision, shape our culture and reflect the behaviours that are valued at the University.
In simple terms, the values describe how we do things at Queen’s.
Our Staff Charter, developed by and for our staff, describes the practical application of our core values through our behaviours, translating them from words on a page into meaningful and relevant actions and scenarios within our daily working lives.
“We have a large and diverse team of colleagues at Queen’s, all working in different areas and in different roles.
And yet each of us is striving in our own way to ensure that our University is a great place to learn, to teach and to work.
Everyone who contributes to the success of Queen’s – irrespective of the nature of their work, how long they are with us or whether they are working full or part time – should feel valued, respected and an integral part of our University community.”
“The Staff Charter has come at the perfect time for Queen’s as we continue to develop and embed our 2030 strategy and reconsider some of our traditional approaches to working life through agile working.
Our central purpose is to provide quality teaching and learning, and to conduct world-class research and innovation.
However, by focusing more on how we achieve this, on the way in which we conduct ourselves and interact with one another, we can approach both the delivery and support of our aims through a different lens, and one that recognises the importance of the people who ensure our success.”
The Staff Charter has been developed in direct response to staff feedback regarding our effectiveness at managing inappropriate behaviour.
Rather than focus on the negatives, we want to re-write the story and recognise, reward and celebrate the positive experiences of those who work here.
The Charter is brought to life through the stories told by our colleagues that demonstrate the positive behaviours and experiences in action and wide-ranging impact that we, the Queen’s community, have collectively.
Everyone who is part of our community plays an important role in contributing to our success, and everyone should feel valued, respected and an integral part of our University.
Our five core values have been developed by staff and students.
They express our shared understanding of what we believe, how we aim to behave and what we aspire to be as an international organisation.
Click on each value below to find out more and watch our staff stories.
We strive for excellence within ourselves and others, providing solutions to new and existing challenges.
We work best when we are collaborative, working together to contribute to the Queen’s community.
We strive together for improvement and innovation, looking ahead to see the bigger picture.
We treat everyone in our community equally and how we would want to be treated ourselves.
We are open, honest and fair.
We take ownership of the way we work and how we treat each other.
Have you got a story to tell about how you or your team have put the Staff Charter behaviours into practice?
Whether it’s an exciting project or initiative, a new idea that you are proud of or a more personal story, we want to hear from you.
Register your interest to share your story either through video or in writing and play your part in shaping the next chapter for Queen’s.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews:
COMMUNITY | 22 August, 2025
SUSTAINABILITY | 20 August, 2025
Queen’s has become the first and only university in the UK to be awarded a Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS) rating, a significant milestone that highlights the University’s dedication to sustainability.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 19 August, 2025
A delegation from Queen’s University Belfast travelled to Cairo this week to meet with Palestinian educators from Gaza for a series of discussions focused on rebuilding and shaping the future of education in Palestine.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 August, 2025
The Open Learning Programme at Queen’s is now open for Autumn/Winter enrolments, offering a wide range of courses for learners of all ages and experiences.
Cultural Life, Education, History, Languages
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 13 August, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast will co-lead major cross-border collaborations tackling cybersecurity, language and identity, and Parkinson’s disease, after securing £3.6 million in funding through the North-South Research Programme.
Cultural Life, Cyber Security, Health, Languages
Funding success | 8 August, 2025
A research team from Queen’s University Belfast has received funding to lead a new UK network that will aim to reduce helminth parasite diseases, also known as worm infections, in the UK and worldwide.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Health, Health data, Public Health
Philanthropy  | 8 August, 2025
Queen’s is proud to announce the establishment of the Kathleen Mary McGuckin Scholarship, a transformative new award created in memory of a beloved teacher and mother.
RECOGNITION | 7 August, 2025
Two members of staff from Queen’s University Belfast have each been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship (NTF) in recognition for their outstanding impact on student outcomes and the teaching profession.
Chemical Engineering, Education, Leadership, Nursing & Midwifery
HISTORY & ECONOMICS | 6 August, 2025
Business, Economic History, Economics
4 August, 2025
Psychology
STUDENT NEWS | 31 July, 2025
Food Safety  | 30 July, 2025
Queen's University Belfast will work with the Food Safety Research Network (FSRN) to tackle the UK’s most pressing foodborne risks, by connecting science with those who feed the nation.
Animal Welfare, Biological Sciences, Food Integrity
30 July, 2025
Education, Society
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 29 July, 2025
Baroness Sue Gray and Dr Feargal McCormack have been announced as Pro-Chancellors on Queen’s University’s Senate whilst Ms Anna Beggan and Mr Lyle Watters have also been appointed as Lay Members.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 28 July, 2025
The partnership strengthens Queen’s reputation as a leading UK university for commercialisation of research and nurturing spin-outs capable of global impact.
Environment | 24 July, 2025
Environment
Sustainable campus | 23 July, 2025
Queen's Business School has scooped a second, major architecture award for its innovative design and environmental credentials.
Sustainability
Academic distinction | 23 July, 2025
Law
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 23 July, 2025
Queen’s has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the University of Gdańsk in Poland, providing opportunities for student and staff exchanges and the enhancement of joint research projects.
Autism Spectrum Disorders
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 July, 2025
Queen’s is once again offering upskilling and reskilling opportunities through SKILL UP- a transformative initiative that delivers free training opportunities to help people across NI reskill, upskill, and thrive in a rapidly changing job market.
Queen’s University Belfast is one of 12 leading universities and research institutions to be awarded £4.35 million to deliver the UK Government’s new Global Talent Fund, a landmark investment to bring top researchers from across the world to the UK.
HEALTH | 17 July, 2025
Researchers are hoping to understand how a particular DNA change can contribute to a person developing breast cancer, and why it increases the risk of the disease in men more than in women, thanks to funding from Breast Cancer Now.
Cancer, Cancer Research
Funding success | 16 July, 2025
Queen's has been selected to participate in the landmark initiative, which connects UK scientists with researchers in more than 30 other countries.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 16 July, 2025
Queen’s University convened some of the world’s most influential business minds in Belfast this week for a high-level Economic Forum, aimed at putting Northern Ireland at the centre of the global AI-driven economy.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 9 July, 2025
The University has recorded its third consecutive year of growth in the National Student Survey (NSS), with students reporting their most positive experience yet.
HEALTH | 8 July, 2025
A new large-scale study led by researchers from Queen’s University has shown that combined wastewater testing and testing of individuals is the most effective way to track SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.
Coronavirus, Health
Graduation | 4 July, 2025
She Yen Yew is graduating today with a degree in Psychology from Queen’s University Belfast, having moved 10,000km from her home in Malaysia, overcoming homesickness, cultural differences, and mental health challenges to complete her degree.
GRADUATION | 3 July, 2025
Dr Ebenezer Veerasingam, from Sri Lanka, is graduating today with a PhD, having completed his research during a global pandemic while navigating personal loss, economic upheaval and the challenges of studying far from home.
Abby Conroy, Hannah Kunnath and Maleeha Silveira are graduating today with Law degrees, having balanced their studies with pro bono legal research for a national social care charity supporting vulnerable people.
Graduation
Sophie Crumlin is graduating today with a degree in Law with Politics from Queen’s, having used her time at university to advocate for underrepresented students, support widening participation initiatives and champion equal access to legal careers.
HEALTH | 2 July, 2025
The Queen’s University Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR) today released the official statistics on cancer diagnosed in Northern Ireland during 1993-2022.
Cancer, Health, Health data
GRADUATION | 2 July, 2025
Nelisiwe Shabalala, from Johannesburg, is graduating today with a degree in Sociology, having balanced the demands of university life with motherhood and caring responsibilities as a mature international student.
Jamie-Lee Beggs, from Bangor, is graduating today with a degree in Social Policy with Quantitative Methods from Queen’s, having balanced her studies with being a full-time carer to her daughter Freya, who has autism and learning disabilities.
GRADUATION | 1 July, 2025
Dr Steph Craig is graduating today with a PhD, having progressed from undergraduate to lecturer while co-leading a groundbreaking initiative to embed domestic abuse training in the nursing curriculum.
RECOGNITION | 30 June, 2025
Qonita Anjani, Research Fellow at Queen’s University has been announced as the joint winner of the 2025 ‘Outstanding Pharmacy Early-Career Researcher Award'.
Health, Pharmacy
GRADUATION | 28 June, 2025
Blessing Chukwuka, from Nigeria, is graduating with a PhD in Business and Management from Queen’s Business School today.
Blessing’s PhD focuses on how workplaces can better support working mothers.
BUSINESS & ECONOMICS | 27 June, 2025
Queen’s academics Dr Michael Aldous and Professor John Turner from Queen’s Business School launch their new book The CEO: The Rise and Fall of Britain’s Captains of Industry - a deep dive into the history of Britain’s corporate leaders.
Business, Economic History, Economics, Politics
HEALTH | 27 June, 2025
The prestigious conference (which ran from 11 – 13 June) was held at the Titanic Belfast and brought together critical care researchers from across the world to present and discuss the latest breakthrough findings in the field.
Health
GRADUATION | 27 June, 2025
Abi Way from St Alban’s is graduating today with a degree in Product Design Engineering, succeeding in a highly visual course despite facing challenges from a visual impairment.
Elia Tutty from Co.
Waterford is graduating today with a degree in Pharmacy, having balanced elite-level cycling with her studies and led Queen’s first-ever women’s cycling team to national victory.
Abhiram Padavala, from India, is graduating with a Master’s in Construction and Project Management with Industrial Internship, becoming the first person in his family to earn a university degree.
Aung Khant Kyaw is graduating today with a degree in Mechanical Engineering from Queen’s University Belfast.
Engineering, Mechanical engineering
GRADUATION | 26 June, 2025
Dr Piangfan Naksukpaiboon, from Thailand, is graduating today with a PhD in medicine, with a journey to date which spans four countries and has been breaking new ground for disabled students.
Jenna McCarlie is graduating today with a degree in Dentistry, having balanced her studies with captaining Queen’s hockey team to their most successful season and representing Ireland internationally.
Millie Nunn is graduating today with a degree in Food Science and Nutrition, having begun her studies just days after losing her mum and persevered through grief to reach this milestone.
Mhairi Cowan is graduating today with a degree in Medicine from Queen’s, having championed planetary health throughout her studies by helping to embed climate-conscious thinking into medical education and advocating for sustainability in healthcare.
Environment, Graduation, Health
RECOGNITION | 25 June, 2025
Dr Garry Laverty, an academic from the School of Pharmacy at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded a prestigious Royal Society Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship for 2025.
Pharmacy
GRADUATION | 24 June, 2025
Queen’s University is recognising a number of high-profile honorary graduates this summer for their outstanding contributions to the arts, science, medicine, public service, business, journalism and the global community.
ARTS & CULTURE | 24 June, 2025
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast announced Amelia Loulli as the winner of the Seamus Heaney First Collection Poetry Prize 2025, supported by the Atlantic Philanthropies.
Creative Arts, Poetry
COMMUNITY | 20 June, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast is proud to mark Refugee Week 2025 with a programme of events that celebrate community and diversity, including a celebration event to formally recognise Queen’s becoming a University of Sanctuary.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 June, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast held a series of Dublin-based engagements this week, highlighting the impact of all-island impact on climate research, healthcare, and business innovation.
RANKINGS | 19 June, 2025
Queen’s University ranks among the world’s top universities in global and UK league tables, highlighting its excellence in research, education, and real-world impact.
Research Impact, Sustainability
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 June, 2025
The University has announced the appointment of Professor M.
Satish Kumar as inaugural Dean of its new campus in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), India.
HEALTH | 18 June, 2025
Scientists have unlocked new details on important ‘receptor’ proteins –promising targets for the creation of novel drugs for metabolic conditions ranging from diabetes to obesity and inflammatory disorders.
Biomedical Science, Experimental Medicine, Pharmacy
ARTS & CULTURE | 18 June, 2025
The School of Arts, English and Languages at Queen’s recently hosted the 13th International Conference on the Inspiration of Astronomical Phenomena (INSAP) on the theme of Celestial Connections across Time and Space.
Astronomy, Languages
17 June, 2025
Incorporating the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) into Northern Ireland legislation is to be the subject of high-level discussions at Queen’s University Belfast today.
Children's Rights, Human Rights
HEALTH | 16 June, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast announce role in major new €6 million European project that will revolutionise how adolescents and young adults manage the long-term effects of testicular cancer.
Cancer, Cancer Research, Health, Health data, Nursing & Midwifery
HEALTH | 11 June, 2025
A world-first ultrawide-field eye imaging study in adults with Down syndrome has found that abnormal blood vessels in the retinal periphery of the eye can be seen before clinical symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease begin to show.
11 June, 2025
Foundations of a large building, believed to be part of Moira Castle and dating back to the 17th or 18th century, have been uncovered during a community archaeology dig, led by experts from Queen’s, in partnership with Lisburn Museum.
RECOGNITION | 11 June, 2025
Professor Karola Dillenburger, a leading expert in behaviour analysis and autism, has been elected as a Fellow of the Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABAI).
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 9 June, 2025
Five finalists from Queen’s travelled to London to take part in the final with lingerie startup Dainty Grace taking the top prize.
QUEEN'S SPORT | 6 June, 2025
Irish Olympian and Queen’s Business Management student, Nathan Timoney has taken home the top prize at this year’s Queen’s University, Deep RiverRock Blues awards.
COMMUNITY | 5 June, 2025
Queen’s Honorary graduate and former professional boxer Carl Frampton surprised a group of Year 10 pupils attending their own graduation at Queen’s following completion of a three-year sports programme.
Science | 4 June, 2025
A group of astronomers from across the globe, led by Queen’s University Belfast, have revealed that millions of new solar system objects will be detected by a brand-new facility, which is expected to come online later this year.
Astronomy
HEALTH | 4 June, 2025
The 2025 Frederick Price Lecture at Queen’s University Belfast was recently delivered by The Rt.
Hon Professor Lord Ajay Kakkar KBE.
QUEEN'S 180 | 4 June, 2025
Queen’s University has officially launched a new feature video to mark its 180th anniversary, celebrating nearly two centuries of education, innovation and real-world impact.
EDUCATION & SOCIETY | 4 June, 2025
The number of Northern Ireland schools offering exams in home, heritage or community languages is on the rise according to new British Council research.
Language Policy, Languages, Modern languages
2 June, 2025
Staff at Queen’s University and their families are set to benefit from world-leading inclusive software worth around £250,000.
HEALTH | 2 June, 2025
New research has found that those who consume a diverse range of foods rich in flavonoids, such as tea, berries, dark chocolate, and apples, could lower their risk of developing serious health conditions and have the potential to live longer.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Diabetes, Health Sciences, Public Health
HEALTH | 1 June, 2025
Published in the New England Journal of Medicine, a world-first trial involving 889 people with colon cancer from six different countries, including the UK, has shown that a structured exercise regime can significantly reduce the risk of colon cancer
Cancer, Cancer Research, Health
RECOGNITION | 30 May, 2025
Professor David Jones, Professor of Pharmaceutical and Biomaterial Engineering from the School of Pharmacy at Queen’s University, has been awarded the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) 2025 Hanbury Medal.
COMMUNITY | 30 May, 2025
Wildflower Alley embodies Queen’s commitment to sustainability and civic focus by fostering community partnership, local empowerment and sustainable practices in the area surrounding the University.
29 May, 2025
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast is marking the 50th anniversary of Seamus Heaney’s landmark collection 'North' – which saw the Nobel Prize-winning poet directly address the ‘Troubles’ for the first time.
Creative Arts
HEALTH | 29 May, 2025
Queen’s has launched a major €6.8 million (£5.7m) PEACEPLUS-funded project aimed at transforming support for people living with substance use and mental health challenges across Northern Ireland and Ireland using digital interventions.
SOCIETY | 29 May, 2025
New research by leading scholars from across the island of Ireland proposes a new justice framework and reform of key legal processes to better meet the needs of victims and survivors of non-recent institutional abuses.
Criminal justice, Law, Northern Ireland, Social Justice
28 May, 2025
The School of Nursing and Midwifery at Queen’s University Belfast recently celebrated the success of the inaugural Ambition to Success programme, a transformative initiative designed to empower the next generation of nursing and midwifery leaders.
Education, Nursing & Midwifery
27 May, 2025
A large group of psychologists, patients and health and social care professionals, have come together from all over the island of Ireland to discuss the critical role of psychology in improving health and wellbeing.
ENVIRONMENT & SOCIETY | 27 May, 2025
Attitudes towards climate change in Northern Ireland differ from those recorded in the UK and Europe, the Northern Ireland Life and Times (NILT) survey has revealed.
Society
ARTS & CULTURE | 26 May, 2025
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen's University Belfast has announced the shortlist for the 2025 Poetry Prize for a First Collection, supported by Atlantic Philanthropies.
FOOD SECURITY | 26 May, 2025
A first-of-its-kind study led by Queen’s University Belfast reveals contaminated crops on farms could be costing poultry organisations over £150,000 in losses annually.
Biological Sciences, Food Integrity
23 May, 2025
Five distinguished academics from Queen’s have been officially admitted to the Royal Irish Academy in recognition of their outstanding academic achievements in the humanities and social sciences.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 23 May, 2025
The What Uni?
Student Choice Awards are the largest annual awards in the UK where the outcome is decided exclusively by students.
22 May, 2025
A major philanthropic gift from the Burdett Trust for Nursing will support a new scholarship programme at Queen’s University Belfast, aimed at empowering the next generation of nursing leaders.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 21 May, 2025
Over 250 primary schoolchildren were on Queen’s campus today, celebrating their successes in workshop sessions across the fields of physics, law and drama, planning, and modern languages under the University’s Professor Fluffy Programme.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 May, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast officially launched its 180th anniversary year today, bringing together students, staff, alumni, community partners, and civic leaders to celebrate the University’s enduring legacy and future ambitions.
20 May, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast has officially been recognised as a University of Sanctuary, through its facilitated support it provides to local refugee, asylum-seeker and migrant communities, and the enhanced opportunities to access higher education.
SOCIETY | 16 May, 2025
The initial impact made by the Safeguarding the Union deal in reassuring unionists about Northern Ireland’s unique post-Brexit arrangements has been reversed.
This has been particularly notable among those identifying as ‘slightly unionist’.
Brexit, Northern Ireland, Politics, Society
BUSINESS | 15 May, 2025
As part of the Business Breakfast Insights series, Queen’s Business School hosted an event exploring what the global trade tariff changes mean for Northern Ireland and the wider global economy.
Business, Business Engagement, Economics
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 15 May, 2025
The University's stand this year will offer interactive exhibitions and science experiments including a range of visual experiments, hands-on microscope activities, the Marine Lab’s touch tank exhibit, and engaging DNA extraction demonstrations.
HEALTH | 14 May, 2025
A new report "Harnessing the Power of Data to Transform Cancer Research, Care and Innovation across the Island of Ireland”, has launched today in Dublin at the Inaugural All-Island Cancer Summit at Croke Park.
Big Data, Cancer, Cancer Research, Health data
ARTS & CULTURE | 14 May, 2025
Queen’s recently hosted the British Academy lecture ‘"It's not what you know, it's who you know": The Problem of Social Capital’.
13 May, 2025
A group of archaeologists from Queen’s have teamed up with volunteers and school children to uncover the site of a 12th century monastery near Downpatrick.
Archaeology
HEALTH | 6 May, 2025
Higher intakes of black tea, berries, citrus fruits and apples could help to promote healthy ageing, new research has found.
Biological Sciences, Food Integrity, Health, Health Sciences
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 1 May, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast has been awarded ‘Ambassador’ status, the highest of three tiers, in Belfast City Council’s Belfast Business Promise initiative.
Staff Recognition | 29 April, 2025
Two Queen's software engineers have been singled out for a prestigious award from the Institute of Physics (IOP) for their work in discovering cosmic explosions, understanding their physics and playing leading roles in major international sky surveys
Astronomy, Astrophysics
HEALTH | 28 April, 2025
Multiple sclerosis (MS) research in Northern Ireland (NI) is to be boosted by the launch of a new research hub dedicated to tackling the condition.
Health, Health data
Science | 28 April, 2025
Earth’s atmosphere is much more sensitive to ripples of radiation from the Sun than scientists previously believed, new research by Queen’s University Belfast has found.
26 April, 2025
Universities play a major role in ensuring women achieve their potential, former President of Ireland Mary Robinson told a gathering of women graduates at Queen’s University Belfast today.
16 April, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast is looking for local Donegal students to apply for scholarship opportunities to study healthcare and innovative healthcare technologies.
Young people were urged today to remain on the island of Ireland and use their ‘truth and dreams’ to sustain the peace that has been enjoyed for the past 27 years.
HEALTH | 16 April, 2025
The Queen’s University Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR) today (Wednesday 16 April 2025) released data on routes to diagnosis for cancer patients diagnosed in 2018-2021.
PARTNERSHIP | 15 April, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast and Historic Royal Palaces (HRP) at Hillsborough Castle have announced a new strategic partnership harnessing expertise from two leading institutions in Northern Ireland, with the shared ambition to inspire positive change.
15 April, 2025
A pioneering new approach to ‘wave science’, aimed at improving outcomes across global healthcare, the environment, engineering and economics, has been published by a group of international researchers led by Queen’s University Belfast.
Astrophysics, Physics
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 15 April, 2025
With the backdrop of Prime Minister Keir Starmer’s AI Action Plan, senior policymakers, AI researchers, and industry leaders joined a major seminar at Queen's to explore how AI can support and transform public services.
Technology
HEALTH | 15 April, 2025
Leading cancer experts warn the UK cancer care system is facing a critical breaking point, in a call for radical action to head off deepening financial pressures.
Cancer, Cancer Research, Health, Health data
ARTS & CULTURE | 11 April, 2025
Actor, director, and singer Adrian Dunbar has gifted the Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s Happenstance, a book of poetry and art created by the painter Brian Ballard, and the founder and former director of the Centre, poet and writer Ciaran Carson.
SOCIETY | 7 April, 2025
Queen’s recently hosted a colloquium exploring the political thought of the principal architects of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, John Hume and Lord David Trimble.
Global peace, Northern Ireland, Peace studies
4 April, 2025
The Bar of Northern Ireland has announced a commitment of £100k in scholarships and bursaries to support law students at Queen’s.
3 April, 2025
The KN Cheung SK Chin InterSim Centre has announced the appointment of three new Fellows to expand the delivery of their simulation-based healthcare training at Queen’s.
PARTNERSHIP | 3 April, 2025
Queen’s is one of the leading UK academic institutions driving forward a major graduate employment partnership programme, generating £50 million for the Northern Ireland economy and creating over 500 jobs over the past 30 years.
A first-of-its-kind study, led by Queen’s University Belfast, exposes the potentially harmful materials found in gum that are going unnoticed.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Health, Health data, Health Sciences
ARTS & EDUCATION | 2 April, 2025
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s hosted an event to celebrate International Children’s Book Day with young authors from local primary schools.
Creative Arts, Education
Society | 2 April, 2025
Parents who experience emotional neglect as children are more likely to have a hostile and controlling parenting style, new research has found.
Climate | 2 April, 2025
Warm temperatures and erratic rainfall due to climate change are taking a toll on Northern Ireland’s health and farming industry, a new study reveals.
SUSTAINABILITY | 1 April, 2025
Queen's University Belfast's Reach’25 festival is set to return this week, offering a platform for art to drive conversations on sustainability and climate change.
SOCIETY & HEALTH | 31 March, 2025
Ireland has a proud history of leading the way on public health but when it comes to protecting how our youngest citizens are fed in an emergency, we’re falling behind - according to a new report led by Queen's and Technological University Dublin.
Children's Rights, Health, Health data, Public Health
HEALTH | 31 March, 2025
A research team from the Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research at Queen’s University Belfast is part of a new £5.5m project which aims to transform bowel cancer care.
27 March, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast was delighted to host the annual SistersINSPIRE event today, (Thursday, 27th March) an initiative designed to inspire and empower young women by showcasing leadership, career pathways, and education opportunities.
Leaders and decision-makers in government, industry and education gathered at Hillsborough Castle to feed into Northern Ireland’s strategic approach to artificial intelligence implementation, adoption, and governance for the next decade.
Big Data, Cyber Security
RECOGNITION | 27 March, 2025
Professor Miguel Valvano from Queen’s University Belfast has been elected to The American Academy of Microbiology Class of 2025.
Outreach and Events | 26 March, 2025
Amateur astronomers and stargazers are invited to the Ulster Museum this weekend to view a partial solar eclipse with help from astrophysicists from Queen’s University.
25 March, 2025
The University sent a delegation stateside for a series of engagements, securing significant fundraising support for its global initiatives.
SOCIETY | 24 March, 2025
Queen’s recently hosted an ARINS (Analysing and Researching Ireland North and South) project event showcasing the results of the ARINS/Irish Times study of public attitudes to a range of constitutional and institutional issues.
Northern Ireland, Politics
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 21 March, 2025
The investment builds on Belfast's proud tradition of aeronautical engineering and will see the creation of a state-of-the-art laboratory at the University.
COMPUTING | 20 March, 2025
Northern Ireland High-Performance Computing – a national facility jointly managed by Queen's University Belfast and Ulster University – have teamed up with the Irish Centre for High-End Computing to launch a new cross-border initiative.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 March, 2025
Lord John Alderdice has been appointed as Honorary Professor of Practice to the Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice at Queen's.
Northern Ireland, Peace studies, Politics
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 19 March, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast has secured £57 million in research across the United States during the past five years.
Queen’s is offering an opportunity for adult learners to re-engage with the natural world again this Spring through a series of short courses designed by its Open Learning Programme.
Education
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 March, 2025
One of Belfast’s most thought-provoking and innovative festivals, the Imagine!
Belfast Festival of Ideas & Politics is returning this month.
17 March, 2025
The newly formed New York Alumni Chapter of Queen’s University marked its launch by becoming the first organisation of its kind from the island of Ireland to take part in the world’s oldest and biggest St Patrick’s Day parade.
14 March, 2025
Students and graduates from across the Queen’s global community are being celebrated as part of a new campaign.
13 March, 2025
Researchers at Queen’s University Belfast are set to lead a new £1.7m project which will help to drive forward engineering design by exploiting digital technologies.
Engineering
HEALTH | 13 March, 2025
The high-profile event was held in the world-renowned cancer institute, the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Centre in Georgetown, Washington DC during St Patrick’s week.
It was an all-women line up as postgraduate student Caitlin Chee and the Queen’s Women Graduates Association picked up the coveted Allstate Queen’s Student and Alumni Volunteer of the Year awards.
University News | 12 March, 2025
The event held in Washington DC was jointly organised by Queen’s and George Washington University, alongside the Smithsonian and Ulster Museums.
12 March, 2025
Queen's has been recognised as one of the world’s top universities, with 21 subjects ranked in the top 200 globally, as announced in the latest edition of the QS World University Rankings by Subject.
SOCIETY | 12 March, 2025
Elina Valtonen MP, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for Finland, recently delivered the 10th Harri Holkeri Lecture at Queen’s.
HEALTH | 12 March, 2025
Today, to coincide with No Smoking Day 2025, a team of students from Queen’s University Belfast have launched a new digital game to raise awareness about the dangers of smoking and vaping.
Nursing & Midwifery
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 10 March, 2025
Queen’s has celebrated two remarkable leaders in recognition of their exceptional contributions to diplomacy, business, and global society at a special Honorary Degree ceremony held in New York.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 7 March, 2025
Over 100 women graduates, students and supporters of Queen’s have gathered at the University to celebrate the Women of Queen’s: Past, Present and Future.
SOCIETY | 6 March, 2025
Queen’s, Belmont University, and Fisk University recently collaborated on the ‘Peace Summit 2025’ in Nashville, reflecting on the lessons of the past and honouring the victories and sacrifices in the ongoing fight for justice and equality.
Global peace, Peace studies, Society
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 6 March, 2025
This appointment highlights the University’s commitment to preparing the next generation of leaders and contributing to meaningful global discourse.
HEALTH | 6 March, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast, in collaboration with University of Limerick, has launched a new e-resource aimed at educating undergraduate healthcare students on the acute neurological condition of delirium.
Health, Health data, Nursing & Midwifery
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES | 5 March, 2025
A new study, led by Queen’s University Belfast, cautions that the removal of artificial barriers, such as dams and weirs, could pose new ecological and socio-economic challenges, if managed inadequately.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Health Sciences, Marine Biology
HEALTH | 4 March, 2025
A new study has shown for the first time how the antibiotic-resistant bacteria Enterobacter can hide in human cells without alerting the immune system.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 4 March, 2025
Queen's University Belfast and Stranmillis University College have officially renewed their long-standing academic partnership, reaffirming a collaboration that is set to strengthen the education ecosystem in Northern Ireland.
3 March, 2025
Researchers at the Centre for Secure Information Technologies (CSIT) at Queen’s have come together to discuss new developments and mark CyberNI Week.
HEALTH | 3 March, 2025
Developing new ways to help the NHS dramatically cut its carbon footprint will be the focus of a new UK-wide hub involving Queen’s University Belfast.
Biological Sciences, Health, Health Sciences
iREACH Health | 27 February, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast has announced a new partnership with Celerion, a global leader in early clinical research.
The agreement will see the US-headquartered company relocate its UK Phase 1 clinical research operations to iREACH Health.
SOCIETY | 26 February, 2025
A year-long series of events will celebrate ARK, a collaboration between Queen’s and Ulster University, as a source of trusted, independent and research-informed insights for Northern Ireland in a changing world.
Northern Ireland, Society, Sociology
HEALTH | 26 February, 2025
A new study led by researchers from Queen’s University Belfast and Ministry of Health Zanzibar has found that reading glasses vastly drove empowerment and improved well-being and livelihood for a group of older craftswomen in Zanzibar.
Health, Public Health
21 February, 2025
The Centre for Sustainability, Equality and Climate Action's 'Love Our Planet and Our Neighbours' event, hosted at Queen's, has created an opportunity to explore and expand pathways for inclusive action for climate and environment.
20 February, 2025
New research into ancient human remains discovered in Bellaghy has revealed that what was potentially thought to be a male, is in fact most likely a decapitated female aged between 17 and 22 years old.
An academic from Queen’s University Belfast has visited Stormont to raise awareness of the crucial role and huge potential physics brings to the NI economy.
iREACH Health | 19 February, 2025
The development of a £64 million world-class clinical research centre in Belfast took a major step forward today as construction work got underway.
RECOGNITION | 19 February, 2025
Professor Mark Lawler, a distinguished cancer expert and data scientist, has been appointed to the International Advisory Board (IAB) of The Lancet Oncology, one of the world’s most influential medical journals
Cancer, Cancer Research, Health data
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES | 19 February, 2025
A new study indicates animal populations living in urban areas show elevated resilience to stressful environmental conditions, with conservation implications.
Animal Welfare, Biological Sciences
SUSTAINABILITY | 17 February, 2025
Queen’s has today become a signatory to the new UKRI Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.
13 February, 2025
Researchers at Queen’s University Belfast have made a ground breaking discovery – they’ve created a simple way to make high quality proton beams using high intensity lasers.
Physics
HEALTH | 11 February, 2025
An international research team led by Queen’s University Belfast is developing a long-acting preventative treatment for malaria which will work as a “chemical vaccine” to protect users for at least three months after a single application.
SOCIETY | 10 February, 2025
38 care-experienced school children graduated at a special graduation ceremony at Queen’s on Saturday 8 February.
7 February, 2025
Students at Queen’s are making sure children don’t have to just grin and bear it when they need to visit the doctor.
The Teddy Bear Hospital Society teaches kids what healthcare settings are all about using their favourite cuddly as a patient.
SOCIETY | 6 February, 2025
The research study is the first comprehensive assessment of Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) among Northern Ireland's adult population, revealing significant levels of trauma that continue to impact all communities and across generations.
Criminology, Northern Ireland, Society, Sociology
HEALTH | 6 February, 2025
Professor Mark Lawler from Queen’s University Belfast teamed with Radiotherapy UK on World Cancer Day (4 February) in a campaign to deliver better treatment for cancer patients across the UK.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 6 February, 2025
World renowned artist Van Morrison has become the first musician to be named by Queen’s University Belfast as their ‘Artist in Residence’.
5 February, 2025
The School of Pharmacy at Queen’s University Belfast is ‘thrilled’ to have received an  Athena Swan Gold Award from Advance HE,  recognising it’s sustained commitment to gender equality.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 3 February, 2025
The University has made it clear there will be no compulsory redundancies as part of the voluntary scheme.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 31 January, 2025
Minister for the Economy, Conor Murphy MLA, has announced there will be a 20% uplift in student maintenance for students across Northern Ireland.
BUSINESS & ECONOMICS | 31 January, 2025
A new report finds that addressing Northern Ireland’s long-standing productivity gap will require a new strategic approach to policymaking, including closer inter-departmental co-ordination, and a long-term commitment to closing the productivity gap.
Business, Economics, Northern Ireland
30 January, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast is set to become the first UK Russell Group university to open a campus in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City, India), with the first cohort of students expected to start in January 2026.
Sustainability | 30 January, 2025
Almost 90 per cent of stadiums hosting the 2026 World Cup could face potentially dangerous levels of heat, Queen’s University research has revealed.
SOCIETY | 28 January, 2025
The report by researchers from Queen’s examined how the allocation of points for intimidation cases, particularly those linked to paramilitary activity, has impacted the fair distribution of housing in Northern Ireland.
Social Justice, Society, Sociology
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 23 January, 2025
Football legend met with a number of students before delivering a lecture as part of The Dr Declan Kelly, Consello Leadership Lecture Series, sharing his leadership insights from sport and business.
CORPORATE | 21 January, 2025
Politicians and policymakers had the opportunity to meet with a range of University academics and staff who are delivering world-leading research, groundbreaking innovation and life-changing work in the community.
ARTS & CULTURE | 20 January, 2025
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast has announced the appointment of Dr Susannah Dickey as their new Publishing Fellow, and Dr Shannon Kuta Kelly and Dr Hanna Slättne as the new Ciaran Carson Writing and the City Fellows for 2025.
HEALTH | 20 January, 2025
A research team from Queen’s University Belfast has mapped the introduction and spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus across Ireland using genetic networking techniques.
Coronavirus, Health, Public Health
COMMUNITY | 17 January, 2025
Almost €7m of PEACEPLUS funding has been awarded to a Queen’s University Belfast led initiative that will use digital technology to provide insights to guide the transformation of healthcare relating to substance use and mental health interventions.
17 January, 2025
A recent study has identified that kidney specialists around the world have significantly different approaches on when they feel a kidney biopsy is needed to diagnose their patients.
Medicine
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 16 January, 2025
This renewed partnership represents a pivotal moment for both Queen’s and St Mary’s as they work together to create a shared vision for the future of higher education in Northern Ireland.
ARTS & CULTURE | 16 January, 2025
Queen’s has launched a new interdisciplinary research facility focused on virtual production to drive R&D for the screen industries and further upskill the creative sector.
Creative Arts, Technology
RECOGNITION | 15 January, 2025
Queen’s University Belfast has been officially recognised for the extensive support it provides to students with experience of care.
14 January, 2025
Communities across the island of Ireland are key in supporting those who are dying, a paper by Queen’s University researchers states.
HEALTH | 9 January, 2025
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast have developed a first of its kind 3D printed cacao-based health supplement that acts as a nutrient and vitamin carrier, helping to boost the immune system.
BELFAST REGION CITY DEAL | 2 January, 2025
During the past year, significant progress has been made on the three innovation centres that Queen’s University is leading on, delivered through the Belfast Region City Deal.
Innovation
Research Breakthrough | 18 December, 2024
A giant ‘hiccuping’ star has been documented for the first time in the final stages of its life before exploding in a spectacular supernova by an international team of astronomers including from Queen’s University Belfast.
Sustainability  | 18 December, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast researchers are part of an international team that has been awarded £2.9 million to develop sustainable technologies for electronic (e-waste) recycling in Malaysia.
green chemistry, sustainability, technology, recycling, environment
Chemistry
SUSTAINABILITY | 18 December, 2024
Queen’s has been awarded Platinum status for the second consecutive year – the highest scoring level – in the 2024 Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey.
17 December, 2024
Two academics from the Centre for Wireless Innovation (CWI) in the School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Queen’s have been singled out for prestigious and rare Fellowships.
RECOGNITION | 17 December, 2024
Professor Stuart Elborn CBE, Honorary Professor of Medicine at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded the 2024 British Thoracic Society (BTS) Medal.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 16 December, 2024
The latest report showcases record-breaking research as well as achievements in gender equality, global partnerships, sustainability and civic engagement.
GRADUATION | 13 December, 2024
Yelyzaveta Razumovska graduates with a Masters in AI from Queen’s while her family remain in war-torn Ukraine, is now undertaking PhD.
Rower Ciaran Purdy is graduating from Queen’s today with a degree in Biochemistry, after winning gold in the U23 World Rowing Championships earlier this year, just days after his final exam.
SUSTAINABILITY | 12 December, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has been globally recognised for its commitment to integrating climate action into all activity by the prestigious QS Sustainability Rankings 2025.
ENVIRONMENT & SOCIETY | 12 December, 2024
Researchers from Northern Ireland’s social policy hub ARK, a joint initiative by Queen’s and Ulster University, have released a new policy brief exploring how a ‘Just Transition’ in Northern Ireland could be achieved.
Climate Change, Environment, Governance, Northern Ireland, Society, Sustainability
GRADUATION | 12 December, 2024
Aaron Smyth is graduating today having used his creativity throughout his studies to empower people with learning disabilities and help to advance inclusive healthcare education.
Caitlín Mooney graduates today with a degree in Midwifery after suffering the loss of her mother, she is now dedicated to supporting women and their families with compassion and care.
12 December, 2024
Glenn McDowell is graduating today having combined his passion for nursing with creativity to create game to enhance early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer.
Patrina Loughran is graduating today top of her class having balanced motherhood and caregiving with her studies, winning national awards and mentoring peers along the way.
Claire Thompson graduates today with a degree in Learning Disability Nursing, having introduced the ‘Makaton Mondays’ initiative to promote accessible communication for people with learning disabilities.
Abby Robinson is graduating today with a degree in Children and Young People Nursing and lands job in same hospital where she was cared for as a child.
Dr.
Mariam Mansouri is graduating today with a PhD in Medicine following a cancer battle, returning to Kuwait to take up a leadership role in public health.
GRADUATION | 11 December, 2024
Dr Natasha Kennedy is graduating with a PhD in English Literature after dealing with profound loss and grief during her studies.
Ruchira Rangaprasad is graduating today with a Master’s in Marketing as she looks to continue to grow her business.
GRADUATION | 10 December, 2024
Irish professional rugby player Iain Henderson is among those receiving Honorary Degrees from Queen’s University Belfast this December.
HEALTH | 10 December, 2024
Today marks the launch of a unique three-year partnership between two leading academic institutions on the island of Ireland focused on cancer research and innovation.
Dr Jessica White is graduating today having studied the biomechanics of those who faced mobility challenges in medieval Ireland, while recovering from her own serious injuries.
Caolan O’Neill is a Planning and Development Masters graduate who undertook a transformative planning project in Portstewart’s Cromore Estate during his studies.
10 December, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast is one of the lead partners in an ambitious new £10 million project which aims to build stronger, more resilient communities.
iREACH HEALTH | 10 December, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has awarded Graham a £39m construction contract to build two new state-of-the-art buildings beside the Belfast City Hospital as part of the planned 8,500m² iREACH Health facility.
GRADUATION | 9 December, 2024
Dr James Todd is celebrating completing his PhD at Queen’s University Belfast today, marking the culmination of a journey that has spanned decades of lifelong learning, overcoming health challenges, and supporting those in need.
HEALTH | 9 December, 2024
In the largest study of its kind in the UK, a research team from Queen’s University Belfast have discovered a new way to treat young babies who have a fever and could be at risk of sepsis or other serious bacterial infections.
5 December, 2024
Home grown global tech company Options Technology is set to have a transformative effect on the Queen’s Rowing Academy in a new partnership which will develop student athletes at the University.
ECONOMY & SOCIETY | 5 December, 2024
A research report from Queen’s Business School has found that the productivity gap in Northern Ireland has significantly widened, with its ranking dropping from 7th to 10th place out of the UK’s 12 regions.
Business, Northern Ireland, Society
HEALTH | 4 December, 2024
Economy Minister Conor Murphy has launched the Future Medicines Institute (FMI), a £55 million industry-led collaborative initiative aimed at advancing the north’s Precision Medicine sector.
Cancer, Health, Health Sciences
RECOGNITION | 4 December, 2024
Professor Alan Smyth from Queen’s University has been awarded ‘Outstanding Clinical Researcher’ at the Cystic Fibrosis Trust 60th Anniversary Awards
ANIMAL WELFARE | 3 December, 2024
Recent research reveals your pooch can detect when your stress levels are heightened, and that they subsequently mirror your emotions during this time.
3 December, 2024
Queen’s graduate, Founder and Managing Director of AES Engineering Group Chris Rea, has been announced as the University’s Allstate NI Graduate of the Year 2024.
SOCIETY | 2 December, 2024
The Oughley shed exhibition depicts the duality of the life of David Strain, through one of its most important aspects: his country shed.
History
2 December, 2024
29 November, 2024
Queen's scored a hat-trick at this week's Innovate UK national awards, which celebrate high achievement in Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) between universities and businesses.
Architecture, Natural and Built Environment, Planning
HEALTH | 28 November, 2024
Queen's University Belfast has secured a significant grant to lead a groundbreaking project aimed at establishing lung cancer screening programmes across the island of Ireland.
Cancer, Cancer Research, Medicine, Research Impact, Respiratory
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast and the University of Dundee have been awarded generous funding to investigate the causes and treatment for a subtype of oesophageal cancer.
HEALTH | 27 November, 2024
As part of a visit to Queen’s University Belfast and University College Dublin, US Congressman Tim Kennedy 
 announced a unique partnership between Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Centre in New York and the All-Island Cancer Research Institute.
SOCIETY | 27 November, 2024
Queen’s University recently hosted this year’s British Academy lecture, exploring anti-imperial epistemic justice and the politics of human rights.
Global peace, Law, Peace studies, Society
26 November, 2024
Two new portraits will feature in Queen's Great Hall alongside many great figures with connections to the University throughout its 180 year history.
HEALTH | 26 November, 2024
Sonrai Analytics (Sonrai), an AI precision medicine company, and Queen’s successfully hosted the 'AI in Cancer Diagnostics' event bringing together patients, medical professionals, and industry leaders to discuss the role of AI in cancer analysis.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 21 November, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast is collaborating with Aston University in Birmingham to offer dual award PhD degrees.
20 November, 2024
Former UTV political editor had received a Chancellor's Medal earlier this year for his services to journalism.
Male experiences of Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) is a major issue requiring immediate attention according to new research carried out at Queen’s.
Mental Health, Psychological trauma, Psychology, Social Justice, Society
FOOD SECURITY | 20 November, 2024
At a recent ceremony hosted in Copenhagen, Professor Rudolf Krska from Queen’s University Belfast was honoured with this year’s Nils Foss Excellence Prize.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Food Integrity
HEALTH | 20 November, 2024
The Queen’s University Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR) today released the official statistics on lung, bowel, breast, melanoma and upper gastrointestinal cancer diagnosed in Northern Ireland during 1993-2022.
18 November, 2024
Queen’s University and Ulster University have been successful in a major, UK government funding award to train a new generation of PhD students in the joint area of AI and bio-sciences.
Big Data, Biological Sciences, Health data, Public Health
HEALTH | 18 November, 2024
New research has found that women have a higher risk of developing cardiovascular issues, including stroke and heart failure, when undergoing dialysis for kidney failure.
Health, Health Sciences
15 November, 2024
The University has conferred six people as Honorary Graduates for their contributions to the arts, broadcasting, public life, community and agri-food industry.
14 November, 2024
RECOGNITION | 13 November, 2024
At a special ceremony held in Stormont on Wednesday, Queen’s University Belfast and Ulster University were delighted to award US Special Envoy for Northern Ireland Joe Kennedy III with two prestigious honorary doctorates.
13 November, 2024
As the Global Innovation Summit (GIS) 2024 continues, Day Two emphasises a critical pillar of long-term sustainable innovation: inclusiveness.
12 November, 2024
The highly anticipated Global Innovation Summit (GIS) 2024 ‘launched’ today with world-renowned physicist Brian Cox taking centre stage as the ‘star’ attraction.
8 November, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast is to partner in a major, all-Ireland geothermal-energy project designed to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in order to help meet Net Zero commitments.
Energy, Environment, Natural and Built Environment, Sustainability
SOCIETY | 7 November, 2024
The vast majority of voters have expressed strong views on how their MLAs should vote in the upcoming democratic consent vote on the core provisions of the Protocol/Windsor Framework.
Northern Ireland, Politics, Society
6 November, 2024
Professor Simon Doherty, Senior Lecturer at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded an Honorary Professor of Practice for his remarkable dedication to his field.
Animal Welfare, Food Integrity
HEALTH | 6 November, 2024
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast have discovered a cutting-edge way to track both human and avian flu variants using wastewater.
Biological Sciences, Health, Respiratory
SOCIETY & EDUCATION | 4 November, 2024
A major study, the first of its kind, has revealed key insights into the extent to which children aged 0-36 months, have access to digital technology in the home, how they use it and how it supports their language development.
Children's Rights, Education
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 1 November, 2024
The Northern Ireland Kidney Research Fund has donated the gift for research into kidney disease.
25 October, 2024
Governments and industry can be more confident in the security of future telecommunications networks with the launch of a major new training programme this week
Cyber Security
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 25 October, 2024
The new Centre for Public Policy and Administration (CPPA) will serve to further build on the University’s significant impact on global policy.
SOCIETY | 24 October, 2024
A new report reveals youth workers in emergency departments helped over 1,400 young people escape violence and exploitation in one year.
Criminal justice, Criminology, Sociology
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 24 October, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Masaryk University (MUNI) in the Czech Republic, building on the impactful community outreach work of Professor Karola Dillenburger.
SOCIETY | 23 October, 2024
Students from Queen’s Business School participated in a transformative community impact project with charity, Compass Advocacy Network (CAN), to transform their facilities.
SOCIETY | 22 October, 2024
Queen’s and Belfast City Airport recently hosted a special ‘Autism in the Air’ event, giving 17 children with autism and their families the opportunity to experience the full airport journey, including a flight across Belfast.
COMMUNITY | 16 October, 2024
To kickstart Hate Crime Awareness Week 2024, Queen’s Film Theatre (QFT) has hosted a special event to help promote understanding and combat hate crime.
Cultural Life, Film and Drama, Northern Ireland
16 October, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast and the Department for the Economy have signed the first Northern Ireland Higher Education Outcomes Agreement between them.
HEALTH | 15 October, 2024
Researchers from Queen’s University, the University of Dhaka, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and the British Geological Survey are combining their expertise to further develop a urine-based early detection test for bladder cancer.
INSTITUTE FOR GLOBAL FOOD SECURITY  | 14 October, 2024
This week, Queen’s University Belfast excitingly welcomes renowned American academic and animal behaviour expert, Dr Temple Grandin to campus.
Animal Welfare, Biological Sciences, Environment, Food Integrity, Research Impact
SOCIETY | 11 October, 2024
Professor Laura Lundy from Queen's led an expert group on student participation to advise the Department of Education in the Republic of Ireland on how best to improve its work involving children and young people in policy development.
Children's Rights
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 11 October, 2024
Professor Philip McGowan, from the School of Arts, English and Languages has been awarded a 2024–25 US-UK Fulbright Global Challenges Teaching Award from the American Association of Colleges and Universities and the US-UK Fulbright Commission.
iREACH HEALTH | 10 October, 2024
The Northern Ireland Clinical Research Facility (NICRF) recently featured two showcase days for anyone wanting to know more about clinical trial infrastructure to support clinical trials or clinical research.
RECOGNITION | 10 October, 2024
The latest research performance results from Queen’s University Belfast indicate 2023-24 was a record-breaking year.
Research Impact
Ireland's Minister for Health, Stephen Donnelly, has appointed Professor Mark Lawler as a new Board Member at the Health Research Board (HRB).
RESEARCH BREAKTHROUGH | 10 October, 2024
A massive black hole has torn apart one star and is now using that stellar wreckage to pummel another star or smaller black hole in a discovery that solves a mystery which had perplexed astronomers for years.
FUNDING AWARD | 8 October, 2024
A Queen's initiative is to benefit from a major, national investment by the UKRI Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) which has unveiled 31 projects to grow the UK heritage economy and safeguard heritage science for future generations.
Archaeology, Conservation and Ecology
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 8 October, 2024
Queen's and Ulster University have announced a joint Research Culture Initiative aimed at nurturing a collaborative research and innovation environment across Northern Ireland.
SOCIETY | 7 October, 2024
The three universities that make up the former Queen's Colleges in Ireland recently partnered with the Irish Institute of Boston College to explore US-Ireland relations and peacebuilding.
5 October, 2024
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING INNOVATION CENTRE | 4 October, 2024
A new NI Space Enterprise Lab (SEL) was launched at Queen’s AMIC Harbour site providing users with access to the latest collaborative technology, resources and expertise – the latest addition to the Satellite Applications Catapult’s UK-wide network.
Space
4 October, 2024
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, The Rt Hon Hilary Benn, has opened CSIT’s Cyber Security Summit highlighting its importance on the global cyber security stage.
SOCIETY | 3 October, 2024
The UK’s biggest celebration of social science research returns this October for its 22nd year.
The aim of the festival is to show how social science is key to understanding the world around us.
SUSTAINABILITY | 3 October, 2024
Belfast Lord Mayor Councillor Micky Murray and Infrastructure Minister John O’Dowd have visited Queen’s University Belfast to launch three unique on-campus cycle parking facilities at a ‘Transforming Travel Through Partnership’ event.
sustainability, active travel, cycling, bike parking
Space Research | 3 October, 2024
A Belfast-based astronomer is gearing up for the culmination of over 20 years of preparation when he takes part in the European Space Agency’s (ESA) first ever planetary-defence mission, to help ward off the threat of an asteroid crashing into Earth.
2 October, 2024
US Special Envoy to Northern Ireland for Economic Affairs, Joe Kennedy III, visited the Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast to officially open a room named in his honour.
Education, Poetry
SOCIETY | 2 October, 2024
An interdisciplinary team of researchers, led by Queen’s, has launched interim results of a landmark global project ‘Explaining Atheism’, which shows that the UK now has more atheists than theists and explains why atheism has grown across the globe.
Anthropology, Society
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 2 October, 2024
World-renowned experimental physicist Professor Brian Cox and Tech Women Today Founder Cecilia Harvey are among the big names speaking at a major conference being hosted at Queen’s University Belfast in November.
QUEEN'S SPORT | 1 October, 2024
Students and alumni of Queen’s University are in the spotlight for reaching the pinnacle of success in their chosen sports.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 30 September, 2024
Queen's has secured a £6.25m funding award from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), as part of its Building a Secure and Resilient World strategic theme, to model and reimagine supply chains across the UK in food, critical minerals and fashion.
City Deal, Sustainability
SOCIETY | 27 September, 2024
The Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice recently co-hosted a major international conference at Queen's 'Leaders Making Peace: Incentives towards Post-Conflict Peacebuilding'.
Global peace, Peace studies
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 26 September, 2024
George Mitchell attends unveiling of new plans for centre in his name at Queen’s and hears how he changed the life of a ‘peace baby.’
Applied Research | 26 September, 2024
A three-day visit to Belfast by leading experts and academics from across Europe is growing the city’s status as a model in 'nature-based solutions' for climate resilience
Conservation and Ecology, Environment, Environmental Planning, Natural and Built Environment
25 September, 2024
As Northern Ireland strives to build a more sustainable and competitive economy, Queen’s University Belfast has made a resounding call to prioritise retaining graduate talent within the region during the Labour Party’s Annual Conference in Liverpool.
Politics
ARTS & CULTURE | 24 September, 2024
A new digital archive capturing the artistic legacy of the Irish border has recently been launched by academics from Queen’s and Trinity College Dublin.
Creative Arts, Music and Sonic Arts
ARTS & CULTURE | 23 September, 2024
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s has announced the appointments of Fiona Benson, Jan Carson, and Declan Lawn and Adam Patterson as the new Seamus Heaney Centre Fellows for 2024-25.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 September, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has once again been crowned the number one university in Northern Ireland, according to The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
SOCIETY | 19 September, 2024
As part of Good Relations Week 2024, Queen’s recently hosted Cultivating opportUNiTY with Social and Community Farming, an event that explored the transformative potential of social and community farming in fostering good relations across NI.
Agriculture, Society
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 September, 2024
The Strategic Communications Directorate has been named the ‘in-house team of the year’ at the global PRCA Platinum Awards, dubbed the Oscars of the PR industry.
18 September, 2024
New research has found that those who consume more foods rich in flavonoids, such as berries, tea, red wine and dark chocolate, could lower their risk of dementia.
16 September, 2024
The Copty Scholarship is a fully funded scholarship by the the Copty family and Queen’s University Belfast, which today welcomed two scholars to Queen's.
RECOGNITION | 16 September, 2024
Professor Karola Dillenburger from the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work at Queen’s has been elected as the incoming President of the European Association for Behaviour Analysis (EABA).
HEALTH | 13 September, 2024
A major breakthrough in the fight against sepsis, one of the UK's most deadly health threats, has been announced today.
SOCIETY | 12 September, 2024
The diaries of David Strain, a linen merchant who documented the lives of gay people in 1930s Belfast, were discovered by Dr Tom Hulme from Queen’s and Professor Leanne McCormick from Ulster University and have been adapted into a BBC drama.
History, Irish history
HEALTH | 12 September, 2024
Laughter may be as effective as eye drops in improving symptoms of dry eye disease, finds a clinical trial published by The BMJ today.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 12 September, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast and Queen’s Students’ Union have signed up to a UK-wide programme aimed at prioritising student wellbeing around drug and alcohol use.
CULTURE AND ARTS | 11 September, 2024
The first edition of the BFI FAN CON starts today at Queen’s Film Theatre and Queen’s University in Belfast, a new conference bringing together over 150 members of the BFI Film Audience Network (BFI FAN) from the exhibition sector.
9 September, 2024
Queen’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, has urged for a more ambitious approach to investment in Higher Education in response to today's announcement.
Staff Recognition | 9 September, 2024
Two academics from Queen’s University have been elected as Fellows of the prestigious Academy of Social Sciences.
Human Geography, Social Justice, Society, Sociology
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING INNOVATION CENTRE | 29 August, 2024
The Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC) has been announced as the main sponsor for the upcoming Northern Ireland Manufacturing & Supply Chain Conference & Exhibition, the largest event of its kind in Northern Ireland.
City Deal, Innovation, Northern Ireland
SOCIETY | 28 August, 2024
Academics and practitioners from Queen’s, Ulster University, Co-operation Ireland and the Strategic Investment Board have published a new paper which explores the enduring presence and influence of armed and paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland.
Peace studies, Society
COMMUNITY | 23 August, 2024
This summer, two impactful initiatives highlight the pivotal role universities play in fostering community empowerment and collaboration to shape social change.
20 August, 2024
There’s a ticking time bomb on cancer care with UK cases predicted to increase by 30% by 2040.
However, without a designated cancer plan in place, there is fear that these figures could get significantly worse.
Biomedical Science, Cancer, Cancer Research, Health, Health data, Medicine, Public Health, Research Impact
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 August, 2024
The new Reboot gaming facility will have something for everyone - retro arcade classics and a board gaming suite, top-tier games consoles such as Nintendo Switch and Xbox S, plus a state-of-the-art Esports Centre.
SCHOLARSHIPS | 20 August, 2024
The studentship has been funded by Kenmare Resources Plc and offers students from Mozambique the opportunity to further their education at the University's School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics.
New findings from researchers at Queen’s University Belfast reveal that the late phase of a solar flare has a greater potential to disrupt Earth's communication systems than previously understood.
Astronomy, Astrophysics, Physics
EDUCATION | 15 August, 2024
This autumn/winter, the Open Learning programme at Queen’s features a rich and diverse range of courses, including one that explores the extraordinary life of social activist Mary Ann McCracken and other remarkable Belfast women.
HEALTH | 14 August, 2024
A new study published today highlights that many of the current 20 million cancer survivors across Europe are being discriminated against in accessing financial services, including loans, mortgages, health and travel insurance.
13 August, 2024
The need for a more sustainable funding model in Northern Ireland to ensure a prosperous economic future was today highlighted by Queen’s University’s President and Vice Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 8 August, 2024
Queen’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, today urged young people not to put their personal futures at risk by partaking in violence and disruption.
RECOGNITION | 8 August, 2024
Three members of staff from Queen’s University Belfast have each been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship (NTF).
CORPORTATE NEWS | 7 August, 2024
The largest eco-friendly student accommodation on the island of Ireland is underway in Belfast City Centre as part of Queen’s University’s commitment to achieve nearly 3,000 beds to meet demand by 2029.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES | 6 August, 2024
Much of the foul-smelling, so-called algal mats banked up around the shore of Lough Neagh consist of bacteria primarily associated with faeces from livestock or human-effluent.
Agriculture, Animal Welfare, Biological Sciences, Conservation and Ecology, Environment, Health, Public Health
OUTREACH | 5 August, 2024
On Saturday 3 August, Queen’s University Belfast’s Marine Lab in Portaferry once again welcomed the public to its annual Open Day as part of the Portaferry Sails and Sounds Festival which celebrates the rich maritime culture of the region.
HEALTH | 2 August, 2024
A team of international cancer leaders have published a manifesto that highlights the immediate course of action needed to address the detrimental effects of armed conflict on cancer care, treatment and prevention.
EDUCATION & SOCIETY | 30 July, 2024
As part of the annual AHSS Summer School 81 students from the US were introduced to the history, culture, and politics of Northern Ireland through academic sessions, engaging with local people, and visiting a range of historical and cultural sites.
Research News | 26 July, 2024
A project to transform navigational tools on aircraft, submarines and autonomous vehicles is to go ahead at Queen’s University Belfast as part of a £160 million investment in ‘quantum’ technologies across the UK, it was announced today.
HEALTH | 25 July, 2024
In a groundbreaking discovery, a team of researchers from Queen’s University has successfully grown a mini version of human blood vessels from people with diabetes.
Diabetes, Health
24 July, 2024
Across the world, farmers and governments are under growing pressure to address emissions from livestock, leading to calls to reduce livestock numbers.
Climate Change, Food Integrity
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 22 July, 2024
The programme is celebrating its 30th year having been originally introduced to assist with the peace process in Northern Ireland.
RECOGNITION | 22 July, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast will send an unprecedented three students to Paris to compete in the 2024 Summer Olympics.
Queen's Sport
22 July, 2024
Planetary Astronomers at Queen’s University Belfast have conducted a study to uncover one of the Solar Systems biggest mysteries; what happened to Chiron?
Astrophysics, Mathematics, Physics, Space
BUSINESS & SOCIETY | 17 July, 2024
Mental health training for line managers is strongly linked to better business performance and could save companies millions of pounds in lost sick days every year, according to new research led by experts at Queen’s and the University of Nottingham.
Business, Management, Management Studies, Performance, Society
16 July, 2024
The Office for Students have recently published their National Student Survey findings on student sentiments and experiences of universities across the UK.
GRADUATION | 10 July, 2024
The University conferred 25 gradupets, which included a number of dogs, cats, and even a dwarf hamster, celebrating the furry friends who have supported their human through their time at Queen’s.
SCHOLARSHIPS | 10 July, 2024
The scholarship is designed to remove financial barriers for local students to undertake study opportunities in the USA during their degree at Queen’s to broaden horizons.
STAFF HONOURS | 9 July, 2024
Professor Steven Bell and George Burton from the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, have both won prestigious prizes from the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) – the only two awarded on the island of Ireland this year.
SOCIETY | 5 July, 2024
Professor Joe Duffy has been commissioned by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) in the United States to lead the research and development of a 'Specialized Curricular Guide on Service User Involvement in Social Work Education'.
GRADUATION | 4 July, 2024
During the final year of his undergraduate course in Planning, Environment and Development, Micheál Glynn faced a pivotal moment when Larne Football Club, recognising his talent on the field, recruited him as a left-back in 2023.
GRADUATION | 3 July, 2024
Dr Asmahan Saleh is graduating today with a PhD in Applied Behaviour Analysis, after an explosion at Beirut Harbour forced her and her family to flee their home in Lebanon.
Yumi Omori is graduating today with a PhD in Sociology from the Mitchell Institute at Queen’s and a deep love for the island of Ireland after 10 years of living here.
Zara O’Gorman from Monaghan, is graduating from Queen’s University Belfast today with a degree in Law.
Graduation, Law
GRADUATION | 2 July, 2024
China Medical University – The Queen’s University Belfast Joint College (CQC) in Shenyang has celebrated its graduating class of 2024.
2 July, 2024
Queen’s University’s Vice Chancellor Professor Ian Greer has said that investment in skills and education is vital for the long-term success of the Northern Ireland economy.
Reece Mills is graduating today with a Master’s in Marine Biology with Professional Studies having secured funding for a PhD.
Biological Sciences
In 2014, the Maths and Physics department at Queen’s introduced its first industry-based Engineering Doctorate (EngD) programme, in partnership with the University of Glasgow, Seagate Technologies.
and the Irish Photonic Integration Centre.
Engineering, Graduation
SOCIETY | 1 July, 2024
A researcher from Queen’s says farmers need to be listened to in the debate about reintroducing lynx and wolves to Britain and Ireland, centuries after they disappeared.
Agriculture, Environment, Society
Politicians, policymakers, researchers, thought leaders and members of civil society from around the island of Ireland recently came together to reimagine the concept and role of economic growth at the ‘Rethinking Growth Conference’.
Economics, Northern Ireland
GRADUATION | 29 June, 2024
Kate Lynch is graduating today with a degree in English and Politics and an exciting future continuing her work supporting young people through teaching.
Jessica Doak is graduating with an undergraduate degree in Adult Nursing from the School of Nursing and Midwifery at Queen’s today.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 28 June, 2024
This follows the University’s recent pledge to cut ties with Israeli companies and companies on the UN blacklist following negotiations with stakeholders including the Students’ Union and Trade Unions.
ARTS & CULTURE | 28 June, 2024
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s announce David Nash as the winner of the Seamus Heaney First Collection Poetry Prize 2024, supported by the Atlantic Philanthropies.
GRADUATION | 28 June, 2024
Aodhan Murray is graduating today with a degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering as he looks to build on the success of his QUBIS-supported spinout company.
Caitlin Chee is graduating today with a Master’s in Product Design Engineering following a North American adventure on leadership and research programmes.
Mechanical engineering
SOCIETY | 27 June, 2024
Dr Jamie Pow from Queen’s was part of a team of political scientists from across the UK involved in the development of Vote Compass.
GRADUATION | 27 June, 2024
A Business Management student who has set up an adaptive clothing company for people who wear medical devices, is celebrating graduating from Queen’s University Belfast today.
Business, Graduation
Guilherme Santos is graduating today with a degree in International Business with Spanish after playing an active role in QBS Connect.
SOCIETY | 26 June, 2024
New research from the Northern Ireland Life and Times (NILT) survey reveals that the adult population hold views that would be considered as Left-leaning with respect to economic policies and Right-leaning with respect to social matters.
Northern Ireland, Politics, Society, Sociology
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 26 June, 2024
Professor Helen McCarthy will play a key role in coordinating a regional strategy on science and technology across Northern Ireland.
GRADUATION | 25 June, 2024
Leaders from across business, public service and academia are set to receive Honorary Degrees from Queen’s University Belfast during this year’s Summer Graduation.
HEALTH | 25 June, 2024
A new study published today highlights how a collaborative data science approach is revolutionising cancer research across the island of Ireland.
Big Data, Cancer, Cancer Research, Health, Health data
SOCIETY | 24 June, 2024
Queen’s today launched the first report focusing on the emotional and personal impact of the Lough Neagh blue-green algae ecological crisis.
Environment, Sustainability
BUSINESS & ECONOMICS | 21 June, 2024
The Northern Ireland Productivity Forum at Queen’s Business School hosted an event to mark 25 years of devolution in Northern Ireland, reflecting on productivity and skills in the region.
RECOGNITION | 21 June, 2024
Professor Charuhas V.
Thakar from Queen’s University Belfast has been awarded the prestigious American Society of Nephrology 2024 Distinguished Leader Award.
SOCIETY | 21 June, 2024
A new report from Queen’s reveals that for almost two-thirds of voters in Northern Ireland (NI) a candidate’s stance on the Protocol/Windsor Framework will be a deciding factor in their voting decision for the upcoming UK General Election.
Brexit, Northern Ireland, Politics
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 20 June, 2024
Queen's University Belfast has become an accredited Living Wage Employer.
BELFAST REGION CITY DEAL | 19 June, 2024
Up to 4,000 jobs will be created in NI as a result of Queen’s £230 million programme of innovation across 3 innovation centres as part of the Belfast Region City Deal, with a funding commitment of £170m from the UK Government and NI Executive.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 June, 2024
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s has opened a new landmark building that honours the legacy of Seamus Heaney and looks ahead to the future of poetry and creative writing on the island of Ireland.
SOCIETY | 18 June, 2024
Queen's recently co-hosted two international Conferences in Belfast with the University of Notre Dame.
Conflict, Conflict Transformation, Global peace, Northern Ireland, Peace studies
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 15 June, 2024
Honours are awarded by the King following recommendations by the prime minister or senior government ministers.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 14 June, 2024
The Market area’s Community Wellbeing Kitchen is a collaborative initiative between Queen’s University, the Market Development Association and residents from the Market community of inner-south Belfast.
RANKINGS | 13 June, 2024
THE Impact Rankings include metrics based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals across four broad areas: research, teaching, outreach and stewardship.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 12 June, 2024
A group of students from Queen’s University have left their mark on Wall Street with a series of visits across New York’s Financial District.
Business Engagement, Queen's Sport
HEALTH | 12 June, 2024
The largest of its kind, this study tracked the blood test results of over 3,500 participants for a span of 17 years.
Health, Health Sciences, Medicine, Mental Health, Research Impact
BELFAST REGION CITY DEAL | 11 June, 2024
Construction has started on a state-of-the-art Factory of the Future at Global Point in Newtownabbey led by Queen’s University Belfast, which is key to an exciting future for advanced manufacturing in Northern Ireland.
City Deal, Development, Engineering, Innovation, Northern Ireland, Planning
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 6 June, 2024
Today marked an important milestone for Queen’s as the University launches its civic mission by pledging to become a Civic University and University of Sanctuary.
RECOGNITION | 4 June, 2024
Professor Ryan Donnelly from Queen’s University has won three prestigious awards for his exceptional research contribution to pharmaceutical sciences.
SPORT | 4 June, 2024
This year’s top individual prize winner at the Queen’s Blues Awards is chasing Olympic glory.
HEALTH | 4 June, 2024
A new report by the Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR) at Queen’s has found red flag referral or screening routes provided patients with earlier cancer diagnosis & have been shown to provide better survival rates for people in Northern Ireland.
30 May, 2024
The Strategic Communications directorate at Queen’s has been named as ‘in-house team of the year’ at the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA) annual DARE awards.
Queen's University Belfast today hosted a celebration event in honour of being awarded the prestigious Athena Swan Gold status for its work in promoting gender equality in higher education.
The new pay deal will see a base salary increase of 13% over three years for all staff, a one-off payment and an additional day’s leave.
ENVIRONMENT  | 29 May, 2024
The first of its kind study suggests that changing seasons and dramatic shifts in extreme weather conditions are likely to impact sleep patterns.
Biological Sciences, Biology, Environment
29 May, 2024
Researchers at Queen’s University in collaboration with the Agri-Food and BioSciences Institute (AFBI) have demonstrated how the use of willow buffers along water courses can be effective in reducing the environmental footprint of farming.
28 May, 2024
The RIA is an independent, all-island learned society which elects a small number of members each year for their distinguished contributions to scholarship and research.
Public Event | 27 May, 2024
What is good science?
And what is ethical research?
A panel discussion at Queen’s University Belfast aims to address those very questions at an event open to the public.
CORPORATE | 24 May, 2024
A vibrant platform of life stories and experiences of older migrant women has been launched online by Queen’s University through an inspiring arts-based research project.
CORPORATE | 23 May, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast is set to take over the east coast of the United States this summer as part of a series of engagements across sport, community and business.
Queen's Sport, USA
HEALTH | 21 May, 2024
Professor of Ophthalmology at Queen’s University Belfast, Noemi Lois, has been honoured with The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh King James IV Professorship.
Health, Medicine
21 May, 2024
A new postgraduate scholarship at Queen’s University will offer students from Mozambique the opportunity to further their education at the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics at Queen’s (HAPP).
The Queen’s University Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR) today (Tuesday 21 May) released the official statistics on cancer diagnosed in Northern Ireland during 1993-2021.
HEALTH | 20 May, 2024
A new €7.5 million research project involving a team of academics from Queen’s University Belfast seeks to improve the care and quality of life for those with advanced dementia living in care homes.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 17 May, 2024
It’s Mental Health Awareness Week and this year’s theme focuses on movement with the University hosting a number of events throughout the week.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 16 May, 2024
From asteroid models to ‘build your own virus’ from clay, to a DNA extraction experiment with strawberries, visitors to this year’s Balmoral Show will be able to engage with a range of cutting-edge research and technology at Queen’s stand.
16 May, 2024
CSIT, the UK’s Innovation and Knowledge Centre for cyber security, and Rapid7, a leader in extended risk and threat detection, announced today a new security research partnership to drive innovation in cloud security.
Queen’s has climbed two places to reach the top 25 of universities in the UK and 28 subjects are in the top 20 in this year’s annual Complete University Guide rankings.
Queen's is at the centre of plans to harvest solar power in space to produce a potentially endless supply of net-zero energy and help turn around the world’s climate crisis.
Climate Change, Energy, Space
HEALTH | 15 May, 2024
A new “rising stars’ fellowships programme, co-led by Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) and Queen’s University Belfast, will enable six talented early career researchers to accelerate their careers for a future in health data science.
SOCIETY | 14 May, 2024
The latest results from the Northern Ireland Life and Times (NILT) survey have found that the majority of respondents (75%) rated their mental health and wellbeing to be good, very good or excellent.
Mental Health, Northern Ireland, Society
HEALTH | 14 May, 2024
Microbiologists at Queen’s University have made a breakthrough in bacteria research which could lead to increased effectiveness of currently available antibiotics, helping in the global fight against antibiotic resistance.
HEALTH | 13 May, 2024
A new research project called the PRESENT Study (PREgnancy loss, Self-compassion aNd Trauma), led by Queen’s University Belfast, will improve care and support for parents who have experienced pregnancy loss.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 9 May, 2024
Queen's University Belfast has today issued a statement reiterating the Vice Chancellor's call for an immediate ceasefire in the Palestine territory of Gaza.
HEALTH | 9 May, 2024
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast are taking to the roads in June to support local pancreatic cancer charity, NIPANC.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 8 May, 2024
The University partnered with Impact Training and Telefónica Tech UK&I on coding academy for 16-19 year olds from North and West Belfast.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 7 May, 2024
The annual fair provides a platform for final year students and recent graduates to explore potential careers with many graduate-level opportunities immediately available.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 3 May, 2024
The focus of today's visit has been on cross-border cooperation with the Taoiseach having the opportunity to hear more about key research initiatives being driven by the University and its role and investment in the Belfast Region City Deal.
RECOGNITION | 3 May, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has been ranked the 5th best university in the UK, and Queen’s Students’ Union has been ranked number 3 in the UK in the ‘Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024.’
HEALTH | 2 May, 2024
Researchers at Queen’s University have devised a new research method which used fictional characters with dementia to help people understand the condition in real life.
Ageing
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 2 May, 2024
The showcase included a one-day symposium reflecting on the role played by artists throughout the peace process and a performance of play Agreement at the Irish Arts Center in New York City.
SOCIETY | 30 April, 2024
Four academics from Queen's were recently invited speakers at a Yale University Colloquium, 'Building Peace Across Generations'.
CITIZEN SCIENCE | 25 April, 2024
Eagle-eyed, armchair astronomers have almost certainly made a number of thrilling discoveries, including two possible Jupiter-sized ‘exoplanets’ – planets outside our solar system – in an international, citizen-science project run out of Queen's
Astrophysics, Space
SOCIETY | 24 April, 2024
Queen’s welcomed Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Lonnie G.
Bunch III, for an ‘In Conversation’ discussion exploring the vital role museums play in dealing with difficult pasts and divided presents.
24 April, 2024
Today, Conor Murphy, Minister for the Economy, Northern Ireland and Dara Calleary, Minister of State for Trade Promotion, Digital and Company Regulation in Ireland will jointly launch the All-Island Oncology Industry Report.
AGRI | 23 April, 2024
Dr Simon Doherty ‘thrilled’ to take home the prestigious World Veterinary Association title.
Agriculture, Animal Welfare
HEALTH | 23 April, 2024
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast have created a new £12M research centre to improve clinical trials for rare diseases.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 23 April, 2024
The University is redoubling efforts through research and teaching, and through public and private spaces, to promote routes to peace, reconciliation and justice.
Professor Chris Johnson, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Engineering and Physical Sciences at Queen’s University, has today been announced as the UK Government’s Chief Scientist in the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology.
SUSTAINABILITY | 19 April, 2024
A new art exhibition which explores the impact of plastic waste on our oceans has kicked off a new sustainability and arts festival at Queen’s University Belfast.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 17 April, 2024
Permission for Northern Ireland’s first Passivhaus student accommodation has today been granted by Belfast City Council planning committee.
RECOGNITION | 17 April, 2024
Professor Maria Lohan from the School of Nursing and Midwifery at Queen’s has been appointed as the first UNESCO Chair in Gender Equality focusing on ‘Masculinities and Gender Equality.’
SOCIETY | 15 April, 2024
Queen’s hosted an event on ‘Policing and Politics in Divided Societies’ with guest speakers Dr Barbara Stephenson and Sir Hugh Orde.
Policing, Politics
15 April, 2024
A photography project in Market community is aiming to tackle issues at the root of addiction and trauma.
HEALTH | 15 April, 2024
An innovative new EU research project called I-SCREEN will help with early detection of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the most common cause of severe vision loss in individuals aged 55.
RECOGNITION | 12 April, 2024
The grave of a Northern Irish scientific visionary has been rededicated in a special ceremony after weeks of restoration work in a Belfast cemetery.
SCIENCE | 11 April, 2024
The first of its kind study tracked the sleeping behaviour of free-ranging fallow deer fawns during the first five weeks of life at Phoenix Park in Dublin.
RECOGNITION | 11 April, 2024
Queen's has been named as one of the world’s top universities for the study of 31 subjects in the latest edition of the QS World University Rankings by Subject.
RECOGNITION  | 11 April, 2024
A chemistry professor whose research was responsible for the development of a life-saving piece of medical equipment has been honoured with an illustrious blue plaque at Queen’s.
INVESTMENT | 28 March, 2024
Invest Northern Ireland and the Department for the Economy today announced the £16.3M investment in new, state-of-the-art AI Collaboration Centre (AICC), to be based at Ulster University in partnership with Queen's University Belfast.
SUSTAINABILITY | 28 March, 2024
Queen’s, in collaboration with the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) Ireland, are hosting an inaugural arts and sustainability festival this April.
27 March, 2024
Visitors flocked to Belfast's Botanic Gardens for an Open Day to mark the next stage of the UPSURGE sustainability project - a partnership between Queen's University, Belfast City Council (BCC) and community group Friends of the Field (FOTF).
Climate Change, Conservation and Ecology, Environment, Environmental Planning, Natural and Built Environment, Sustainability
SOCIETY | 27 March, 2024
Researchers from the School of Psychology at Queen’s University Belfast are recruiting male participants to take part in brand-new research investigating the experience and impact of intimate partner violence against men in Northern Ireland.
Students from Queen’s University are partnering with Fighting Words NI to help local primary school children create their own stories.
HEALTH | 26 March, 2024
Queen's University and MOBILion Systems, Inc.
have launched a new partnership to advance food safety by innovating test methods and tools that aim to quickly identify contaminants, enhancing current technologies for better detection.
Food Integrity, Health
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 21 March, 2024
Queen's University Vice Chancellor issues statement in response to the situation in Israel Gaza and the Middle East.
Queen’s University Belfast Chancellor Secretary Hillary Clinton has praised Northern Ireland’s First and Deputy First Ministers, Michelle O’Neill and Emma Little-Pengelly, for working together for the betterment of all people across society.
Sustainability | 21 March, 2024
Recycling waste energy from High-Performance Computing (HPC) to heat hospitals, homes and schools is just one of the many ideas behind a radical, new project led by Queen’s University Belfast.
Big Data, Energy, Environment, Sustainability
19 March, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has today received its largest ever in-kind donation from US computer software company Alteryx, who will be donating data licences to students and staff at Queen’s University Belfast with an estimated value of $15million.
HEALTH | 19 March, 2024
A world-first mega-trial for people living with progressive forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) has launched a new site in Northern Ireland.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 18 March, 2024
Students from Queen’s University Belfast and Dublin City University are to be given the opportunity to become a Graduate Ambassador in New York City.
SOCIETY | 15 March, 2024
The annual Imagine!
Belfast Festival will return from 18 – 24 March 2024 with over 130 in-person and online events.
Creative Arts, Music and Sonic Arts, Politics
HEALTH | 15 March, 2024
A delegation of cancer specialists from across the island of Ireland has briefed the US Congressional Cancer Caucus in Congress on how a quarter of a century of transatlantic collaboration has delivered significant impact in cancer research and care.
Research Investment | 14 March, 2024
Queen’s is one of two academic leads on a highly prestigious, £8 million, UK initiative to train an expert workforce to deliver secure networks in the AI era.
cyber-security, AI
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 13 March, 2024
A delegation led by Queen's University Belfast has been speaking to some of the US' most influential lawmakers and industry figures on Capitol Hill to encourage investment in the opportunities peace has brought.
13 March, 2024
At a high-profile event in Washington DC during St Patrick’s week, speakers highlighted the impact of a unique transatlantic partnership that has transformed cancer research and cancer care on the island of Ireland.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 12 March, 2024
Part of a delegation led by the University, Emma Stephenson and Khaula Bhutta will be addressing Congress to discuss the economic opportunities afforded to them in Northern Ireland, following 25 years of peace.
HEALTH | 11 March, 2024
A report published today details the findings of the Independent Review of Equity in Medical Devices.
Health, Health Sciences, Public Health
CyberNI Week | 8 March, 2024
The Centre for Secure Information Technologies (CSIT) at Queen's welcomed a visit from Steve Baker MP (Minister of State for NI) and Viscount Camrose MP (Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for AI and Intellectual Property) to mark CyberNI Week.
cyber-security
RECOGNITION | 7 March, 2024
Professor Thérèse Murphy, from the School of Law at Queen’s, has been elected as a Fellow of the national Academy of Social Sciences.
Health, Human Rights, Law, Society
RECOGNITION | 6 March, 2024
Edna Longley, Professor Emerita of English at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded an honorary CBE for work as a poetry critic, and her services to academia and the arts.
HEALTH | 5 March, 2024
The public listening exercise is being conducted by Queen’s, working in partnership with Derry Well Women, and will take place alongside the development of a Women’s Health Action Plan, announced by the Minister last month.
ARTS & CULTURE | 5 March, 2024
The Fellowship was created as part of Queen’s and the Arts Council of Northern Ireland's (ACNI) joint ten-year Seamus Heaney Legacy project supported by the Atlantic Philanthropies.
Creative Arts, Northern Ireland, Poetry
SOCIETY | 1 March, 2024
Academics from the Centre for Shared Education at Queen’s hosted the Prime Minister of Kosovo, Albin Kurti, on a recent visit to Northern Ireland.
Education, Northern Ireland
1 March, 2024
Professor Máire O’Neill has been awarded a Gold Medal in Engineering Sciences from the Royal Irish Academy (RIA).
HEALTH | 29 February, 2024
Today, Rare Diseases Day 2024, is the official launch of the All-Ireland Children and Young Adults Research Advisory Group for Rare Diseases (RAIN CRAG), the first of its kind on the Island of Ireland.
29 February, 2024
A scholarship scheme enabling Palestinian students to study for a masters at Queen’s has been extended for a further 5 years.
A global research team has developed Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithms that will automate the screening process of remote eye tests for Diabetic Retinopathy (DR), a common complication of diabetes that can cause blindness if left untreated.
Minister for Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science, Simon Harris TD and Minister for Health Stephen Donnelly TD announced funding for additional medical places in Queen's University Belfast.
SOCIETY | 28 February, 2024
Researchers at Queen’s are asking people to respond to an island-wide survey on the role of religion on the island of Ireland since the Covid-19 pandemic.
Northern Ireland
HEALTH | 27 February, 2024
People in Northern Ireland received less key cancer treatment than comparable countries, two landmark international studies have found.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 26 February, 2024
The University is deeply saddened to learn of the death of our former President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Peter Gregson.
SOCIETY | 23 February, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Greater Shankill Partnership, which will formalise their shared commitment to further collaborative work to progress and enhance the Greater Shankill area.
SOCIETY | 22 February, 2024
New research from Queen’s is calling for the adoption of a trauma informed approach across all systems, organisations, policies and services in Northern Ireland, for the benefit of all in our society.
According to a new report from Queen’s University Belfast, voters in Northern Ireland are split into three camps as to whether the restored Assembly will last until the end of its current mandate in 2027.
Brexit, Northern Ireland
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 21 February, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast is working in partnership with Mediation Northern Ireland on a first-of-its-kind immersive conflict resolution training programme.
RECOGNITION | 19 February, 2024
Dr Simon Doherty from Queen’s University has been announced as the winner of the “One Health” category of the World Veterinary Association (WVA) Global Veterinary Awards.
Animal Welfare, Biological Sciences, Environment, Food Integrity, Health
SOCIETY | 15 February, 2024
The fifth Annual Senator George J.
Mitchell Peace Lecture was recently delivered by Professor Neta Crawford FBA, Montague Burton Professor of International Relations at the University of Oxford.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 13 February, 2024
Upcycled tea leaves have been found to absorb Chromium, found in wastewater from the electroplating, leather tanning, and textile industries.
HEALTH | 13 February, 2024
Scientists from Queen’s and the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Scotland Institute in Glasgow have made a series of groundbreaking discoveries into tumour biology that may be used to deliver a more effective personalised medicine approach for bowel cancer.
RECOGNITION | 13 February, 2024
Professor Karola Dillenburger was awarded the Gold Medal of Masaryk University (MUNI) for her contribution to setting up autism services in the Czech Republic.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY | 13 February, 2024
Previously unknown properties of the precious metal gold and its melting point have been uncovered by an international team of scientists led by Queen’s University Belfast.
Physics, Technology
OUTREACH | 9 February, 2024
Members of the public will be able to get their hands dirty as part of an exciting three-year programme of community archaeological activity, launched at Queen’s University Belfast.
Archaeology, Child and Youth Participation
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 7 February, 2024
The calls for action follow the new London Economics report which shows higher education institution income for students in NI is 25% less than England.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 6 February, 2024
Dr M.
Satish Kumar, Associate Professor from the School of Natural and Built Environment, Geography, Archaeology & Palaeoecology, at Queen's University Belfast, has been appointed as the Chairperson of the Kerala Urban Policy Commission in India.
HEALTH | 5 February, 2024
Leading researchers from Queen’s University Belfast will hold the 'Bowel Cancer Research Science Cafe’ event at the Patrick G.
Johnston Centre for Cancer Research (PGJCCR) on Friday 16 February.
Researchers from Queen’s University Belfast have discovered a new method for improving the safety of radiotherapy for patients receiving treatment for lung cancer.
RECOGNITION | 2 February, 2024
Mitchell Institute Professor Emeritus John Brewer was awarded the 2023 Distinguished Service Award by the British Sociological Association.
ARTS & CULTURE | 1 February, 2024
Researchers from Queen’s and the University of Warwick have compiled the first ever collection of hit songs from seventeenth-century England, including over 100 ballads in total.
1 February, 2024
Managing Director at Equilibria Capital, Garrett Curran, took up the position on 1 January 2024 with Leadership Consultant and Chartered Psychologist Tessa Breslin appointed in November 2023.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 1 February, 2024
Queen’s relationship with the Athena Swan programme to promote gender equality in higher education started more than 20 years ago in 2003.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 30 January, 2024
Former BBC and UTV political editors, Stephen Grimason and Ken Reid, were honoured at a special ceremony at Queen’s organised by the Strategic Communications Directorate.
SOCIETY | 30 January, 2024
Families of ex-Service personnel need to be consistently identified, recognised, and supported according to a new report by Queen’s and King’s College London.
HEALTH | 24 January, 2024
Improved mental health support, along with information on and access to community services, is needed to improve cancer care experiences in Northern Ireland.
Strategic Alliance | 23 January, 2024
Queen’s and Purdue University have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), initiating a strategic collaboration focused on research and academic exchange.
This partnership aims to enhance learning and technological advancements in key sectors.
Big Data, City Deal, Engineering, Health data
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 23 January, 2024
Year 13 pupils from 25 schools across Northern Ireland visited the university this week for the SistersINSPIRE leadership event.
ARTS & CULTURE | 22 January, 2024
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast has announced the appointment of Sharon Dempsey and Charles Lang as the new Ciaran Carson Writing and the City Fellows, and Mícheál McCann as the new Publishing Fellow for 2024.
Research News | 17 January, 2024
An international group of astronomers, including a team led by Queen’s, has found a direct link between the explosive deaths of massive stars and the formation of the most compact and enigmatic objects in the Universe — black holes and neutron stars.
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 15 January, 2024
Queen’s University Belfast has announced two new appointments to its senior leadership team.
HEALTH | 15 January, 2024
A breakthrough in the field of microbiology made by researchers from Queen’s University Belfast may lead to better treatments in the fight against antibiotic resistance.
11 January, 2024
Drug overdose prevention centres (OPCs) could prevent thousands of deaths, reduce the spread of serious disease, improve communities, save taxpayer money and with no increase in drug-related crime – according to a major new report
Psychology, Society
ENVIRONMENT | 20 December, 2023
Researchers from Queen’s University and partners welcome the call for a referendum on the incorporation of the Rights of Nature into the Irish Constitution.
Environment, Law
SOCIETY | 20 December, 2023
The Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice, in collaboration with the Royal Irish Academy (RIA) and the University of Notre Dame recently co-hosted the fourth Conversations on Britishness and Irishness event.
APPOINTMENTS | 20 December, 2023
Professor Colin Harvey, Director of the Human Rights Centre at Queen’s and Commissioner on the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission, has been appointed to the Scientific Committee of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA).
Human Rights, Law
HEALTH | 20 December, 2023
A new population-based study led by Queen’s University Belfast has found that a substantial number of type two diabetes cases could be avoided through adopting a healthy plant-based diet.
Food Integrity
SUSTAINABILITY | 18 December, 2023
Queen’s University Belfast has recently received a hat-trick of accolades in recognizing the university’s commitment to sustainability.
GRADUATION | 15 December, 2023
Grace Kennedy, aged 22 from Belfast, will graduate today with a Master of Science in Research in Cancer Medicine from the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences at Queen’s University Belfast.
GRADUATION | 14 December, 2023
Elspeth Vischer from Belfast graduated today with a PhD in Film Studies from the School of Arts, English and Languages at Queen’s.
Colette Henry, from Rostrevor in County Down, celebrates graduating today from Queen’s for the third time with a MA English Creative Writing with distinction from the School of Arts, English and Languages.
Megan Husband, aged 21 from West Belfast, will celebrate graduating today with a First Class Honours degree in BA English and History from the School of Arts, English and Languages at Queen’s.
This time last year, 27 year old Samridhi Saini was dealing with the sudden death of her beloved father who was miles away from her as she studied for a Master's at Queen’s.
Paula Santkiewicz (29) is originally from a small town in Poland and has been living in Belfast for over seven years.
22 year old Omkar More from Mumbai, India found more than he bargained for when he signed up for a Master's at Queen’s University and ended up representing the University at the Irish National Rowing Championship.
HEALTH | 14 December, 2023
CV6 Therapeutics, based at the Patrick G.
Johnston Centre for Cancer Research at Queen’s, has received approval from the UK’s medicines regulator, the MHRA, to begin a UK-wide clinical trial for its first of a kind anti-cancer drug called CV6-168.
GRADUATION | 13 December, 2023
Savannah Stoops, aged 24 from Newtownards, will celebrate graduating from Queen’s today with a Master’s of Laws (LLM) with distinction from the School of Law.
Mature student Carol Carey has achieved more than she could have imagined when she signed up for a Master's in Law in September 2021.
Already mother to an 11 year old boy and a 1 year old baby girl, she knew the course was likely to be hard work.
Philip Rivers is celebrating graduating with a PhD from the School of Law at Queen’s University Belfast today.
Aswathi Sunil is graduating today (Wednesday 13 December) with a Master’s in Construction and Project Management from the School of Natural and Built Environment at Queen’s University Belfast.
Sandra Susan Samuel was born in Kerala, India, but mostly grew up in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, where she quickly developed a sense of the importance of the built environment.
GRADUATION | 12 December, 2023
Antje Ruhmann, aged 38 and from Beckum in Germany, will today celebrate graduating from Queen’s with a PhD from the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
Izyan Nadiah binti Md Noh is graduating today with a Master’s in Education in Inclusion and Special Educational Needs from the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work at Queen’s University Belfast.
Dr Monica McCard will graduate today with a PhD from the School of Biological Sciences at Queen’s University Belfast.
GRADUATION | 11 December, 2023
Queen’s University Belfast is today (Monday 11 December) honouring a number of high-profile individuals for their services to the Arts, Sport, Medicine, Public Service, Local Community, Business, Commerce and Education.
SOCIETY | 11 December, 2023
A major new research study across the island of Ireland has found that the majority of people view hate crime as a ‘serious and growing problem’.
Criminal justice, Criminology, Law, Society
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 8 December, 2023
Queen’s Students’ Union are delivering a Warm Up with Us Campaign to provide students with nourishing food and advice about how to keep warm over the winter months.
SOCIETY | 7 December, 2023
Queen’s academics are part of a major research study into public attitudes in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland on the question of unification and related issues, published by the Irish Times.
Irish Studies, Northern Ireland
UNIVERSITY NEWS | 7 December, 2023
This winter Queen’s University Belfast hosted its sixth independently organised TEDx event.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Media-contacts:
We provide a service for journalists from the print, broadcast and online media seeking information, comment or guidance on all aspects of the University's work and activity.
Please email comms.office@qub.ac.uk to be added to our news distribution lists.
At Queen's, you will find experts in food security, healthcare, politics, peace studies, cyber security, technology, human rights, astrophysics, Brexit and much more.
You can find a list of experts here: https://www.qub.ac.uk/News/find-an-expert/ .
Please contact the Communications Office who can advise on and facilitate any interview requests.
An out-of-hours contact service for urgent media inquiries is also in operation.
Please call +44 (0)28 9097 3091 for details of the on-call press officer.
If you are about to publish an interesting research paper, have reached a significant milestone in your research, or just have an interesting story to tell, please get in touch with the Communications Team .
Assistant Director of Strategic Communications
Leanne Barnett – l.barnett@qub.ac.uk
Executive Assistant
Elaine Gallagher Docherty – e.docherty@qub.ac.uk
Communications Manager (Media)
Suzanne Lagan – suzanne.lagan@qub.ac.uk
Media Relations
Michelle Cassidy (Thur-Fri) – m.cassidy@qub.ac.uk
Jemma Coulter – jemma.coulter@qub.ac.uk
Emma Deeny  – emma.deeny@qub.ac.uk
Alana Fisher – alana.fisher@qub.ac.uk
Conor McCullagh – c.mccullagh@qub.ac.uk
Connor McKernan – connor.mckernan@qub.ac.uk
Communications and Media Assistant
Emma McCrossan – e.mccrossan@qub.ac.uk
Strategic Communications Office
Tel: +44 (0)28 9097 3091
Email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk
This month's news releases and archived items.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/find-an-expert:
This experts directory is a searchable database of Queen’s academics who are interested in talking to the media about their areas of expertise.
If you cannot find the right expert, please contact Queen’s Communications Office and a member of the team will be able to help you.
Chris Colvin combines economics and history to better understand the performance of firms, industries, economies and societies.
Expertise : economic history; financial history; business history; banking crises; health crises; patents and innovation; economic policymaking process; pedagogical reform
Historian Dr Maurice J.
Casey is an expert on histories of revolutionary politics in early twentieth century Europe.
Expertise : Twentieth Century Irish History, Soviet History, History of Communism, History of Anti-Fascism, Migration History, Irish and Easter European Connections.
Dr Alessandra Guida is a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) at Queen’s School of Law and serves as the UK Government’s independent expert on the Trade and Agriculture Commission (TAC).
She is also a Member Representative of the UK Trade and Sustainable Development Domestic Advisory Group (UK TSD DAG).
Expertise : International Trade Law, International Environmental Law, Food Law, Sustainable Governance
Dr McVey is an expert on corporate accountability for human rights and environmental harms.
Expertise : Human Rights, Business and Human Rights, Climate and Human Rights.
Professor Billy Melo Araujo is a leading expert in international trade policy and law.
Expertise : International Trade Law, European Union Law, Brexit, Windsor Framework.
Dr Aishling Mc Morrow specialises in gender, security, and terrorism.
Her work examines women engaged in political violence, and violent misogyny.
Expertise : Security, Terrorism, Gender, Violence against women and girls, and violent misogyny.
Dr Michael Aldous is a business and economic historian interested in long run trends in the leadership and management of companies.
Expertise : Long run analysis of British business and management, CEOs and company performance, long run trends of (de)globalization.
Dr Fagunwa is a microbiologist who focuses on understanding the microbiome and its interactions with drugs and food, aiming to uncover their implications for human and animal health.
His research integrates traditional microbiology with genomics tools, molecular biology techniques, bioinformatics, utilising data-analytics and artificial intelligence.
Expertise : Microbiome, Drug-Food-Microbe Interactions, Molecular Biology, Bioinformatics, Antimicrobial Resistance, One Health
Dr Fino is an expert in individual differences in personality and identity, and their relationships with mental health and wellbeing.
Expertise : Personality, Identity, Mental Health, Wellbeing, Psychometrics.
Dr Hargy is a scholar of contemporary American politics; writing and commenting extensively on US elections and President Donald Trump.
Expertise : US politics, US elections, US Congress, US Foreign Policy, President Trump, and American current affairs.
Expert in socio-political implications of Artificial Intelligence and allied technologies, including emerging generative AI technologies such as DeepSeek.
Research includes relationships between AI and disinformation, democracy, elections and cooperativism.
Expertise : Artificial Intelligence, Critical Studies of Technology
Dr Nicholl's expertise encompasses cosmic explosions and other energetic events associated with massive stars, neutron stars and black holes.
Expertise : Supernova, black hole, kilonova, gamma-ray burst, tidal disruption event, transient, galaxy
Dr Pal Schmitt is a marine engineer with research interests in the design and development of coastal and marine engineering structures.
Expertise : Blue Economy, Marine Renewable Energy, Wave Energy, Tidal Energy, Marine Engineering, Coastal Engineering
Dr Hanson is an academic, award-winning social entrepreneur, snow leopard conservationist and former community farmer who specialises in human-wildlife coexistence and rural development.
Expertise : Social aspects of conservation and agriculture, and how these relate to other social processes, including tourism and enterprise.
Specifically, coexistence between large carnivore conservation and livestock farming, as well as social and community farming.
Dr Booth is a lecturer in Behaviour Analysis and autism in the School of Social Sciences, Education, and Social Work.
Expertise : Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA), autism, developmental disorders, inclusive education, disability, values-driven professional training, and parent training.
Dr John Topping is criminologist and an internationally recognised expert in policing, including police reform and accountability, along with stop and search powers.
Expertise : Policing, police reform, stop and search, post-conflict policing
Dr Carroll is an expert in farm and companion-animal welfare science and human-animal interactions
Expertise : Cats, pigs, animal welfare; human behaviour change; domestication, evolutionary psychology
Professor Laura Lundy is an international expert on children’s rights and child and youth participation and author of the widely used Lundy model of child participation .
Expertise : children’s rights, child participation
Professor Luke Moffett is an expert on the laws of war/Geneva Conventions, International Criminal Court, civilian and victims’ rights, reparations, and international crimes (aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes).
Expertise : International crimes; civilians war; laws of war.
Professor Máire O’Neill is a leading cybersecurity expert.
Maire is a UK Female Inventor of the Year, was the youngest Irish Academy fellow and youngest-ever engineering professor at Queen’s University Belfast.
Expertise : Cyber Security, Cryptography, Hardware Security, Data Security, Internet of Things
Professor Rooney is a Chemical Engineer working on systems approaches to deliver multiple aspects of the Net Zero transition.
Expertise : Renewable Energy Systems, Net Zero, Biogas
Animal behaviour and welfare, human-animal bond, pets and human health, paw preferences/laterality, dogs, cats, pet-behaviour problems
Expertise : Animal behaviour, animal welfare, paw preferences, dogs, cats, pet ownership
Dr Milligan is a researcher in solar physics, specialising in solar flares, solar activity, and solar eclipses.
Expertise : Solar flares, Solar eclipses, Solar activity, Sunspots, Northern Lights/Aurora Borealis
Her research focuses on healthcare management, healthcare quality management and healthcare systems .
Expertise : Healthcare management, Healthcare quality management, Healthcare systems, Quality Improvement, Independent Living, Teaching Hospitals Delivery of Health Care
Dr Broadbent is currently working on a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) Fellowship to investigate the immune responses to respiratory viruses, such as influenza, and how this can cause damage to the lungs.
Expertise : coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19, virology, respiratory disease
Main area: forensic science, especially the search for human remains in water or buried on land; secondary interest is the appearance of dinosaurs at a time of climate change, 224 million years ago.
Expertise : Geology, geophysics, forensic science, climate change in deep time, location & forensic recovery of human remains
Cherie has a particular interest in occupational groups that are at increased risk of experiencing trauma and traumatic stress outcomes due to their occupational roles, for example, military, police, and emergency service workers; such as those in the fire and ambulance services.
Expertise : Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, PTSD, Veterans, Mental Health, Depression, Domestic violence, Child maltreatment
Professor McKinley’s research has focused on the application of spatial analysis techniques, including geostatistics, compositional data analysis and Geographical Information Science (GIS), to soil geochemistry, environmental and criminal forensics, human health, slope instability, airborne geophysics and weathering studies.
Expertise : Spatial analysis techniques, Geostatistics, Compositional data analysis, Geographical Information Science (GIS), Soil geochemistry, Environmental and criminal forensics, Human health, Slope instability, Airborne geophysics, Weathering studies
Dr Sturm’s research is on conspiracy theories, apocalyptic though, and sectarian politics and reconciliation in Northern Ireland and Israel and Palestine.
Expertise : Conspiracy theories; apocalypse; covid-19; coronavirus; emotions; sectarian reconciliation; Israel and Palestine.
Dr Gemma Catney is a leading Population and Social Geographer at Queen's University Belfast.
Expertise : Ethnicity, Race, Diversity, Segregation, Mixing, Socio-Spatial Inequalities, Neighbourhoods, Census, Spatial
Dr Schwamb studies the icy bodies in the outer Solar System.
Expertise : Astronomy, planetary science, Solar System, exoplanets, astrophysics, Solar System small bodies
Dr Lawther is an expert on issues relating to victims and survivors and the legacy of Northern Ireland conflict.
Expertise : Transitional justice, victims and survivors, legacy, dealing with the past, truth/truth recovery/truth commissions, reparations, and memorialisation.
Professor Chris Elliott is a leading expert on international food supply chains and the implications for food quality, authenticity, integrity and safety.
Expertise : food fraud, food security, supply chains, food integrity
Professor Robertson is an Energy and Environmental Engineer with expertise in advanced technologies for water sustainability and solar energy generation/storage.
Expertise : Water sustainability, waste and potable water treatment.
Renewable/sustainable energy, including solar energy and solar fuel generation such as renewable hydrogen.
Technology for net zero engineering.
Exploring alcohol and drug use among individuals experiencing harm or at risk of harm but not seeking treatment
Expertise : Alcohol, drinking, drug use, health inequalities, drug consumption rooms, overdose prevention sites, brief advice, harm reduction
Professor of Politics and Public Policy, and Head of Politics and International Relations.
Expertise : Irish Politics; Irish Government and Politics; International Public Policy; Technology, Government and Society; and State Administration.
Professor Brewer is an internationally recognised expert in peace studies and conflict transformation.
Expertise : peace studies, conflict transformation, peace processes; religious peace building; religion and conflict; history of sociology; social science; higher education; qualitative research; ethnography, peace processes
Dr Dounavi is a Senior Lecturer in Behaviour Analysis and Autism in the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
Expertise : Applied behaviour analysis, developmental disorders including autism spectrum disorders, inclusive education, values-driven professional training, telehealth, verbal behaviour, learning and communication disorders, parental training, behaviour change for wider societal challenges, systematic reviews
Dr Kerr’s recent research looks at children and young people’s connection to and knowledge of nature, views on environmental sustainability and their health and well-being, as outcomes of outdoor learning.
Expertise : Outdoor learning; Learning Outside the Classroom; Environmental Education; Education for Sustainable Development; Teacher professional development
Niall Cullinane is a Professor from Queen's Business School and his research lies broadly in the field of work, employment relations and trade unionism.
Expertise : industrial relations; trade unions; strikes; work trends; pay; collective bargaining; employment
His research interests cover behavioural economics, ethical decision making and social choice theory.
He is currently working on assessing the general public's perceptions of what is a fair and responsible distribution system of social resources, when facing public diseases.
Expertise : Behavioural economics, ethical decision making, social choice theory
His main research areas are business analytics and supply chain management.
Expertise : Digitalization of Supply Chains, Supply Chain Management, Innovation, Industry
Professor Richard English is an internationally recognised historian, academic and author having conducted extensive research in Irish politics and history, political violence and terrorism.
Expertise : terrorism, political violence, Irish politics and history
Professor Bowman’s research is focused on the development and evaluation of advanced materials for data storage technology.
Expertise : data storage technology, rare earth magnetism, rare-earth-ferromagnetic coupling phenomena, synthetic magnetic multilayers, plasmonic materials
Dr Michael Duffy is a cognitive psychotherapist specialising in PTSD and complex grief.
Expertise : PTSD, mental health, complex grief, psychological trauma, coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19
Professor Martyniszyn is a world-leading expert in the area of competition law and policy.
He focuses, in particular on cross-border cases, state involvement, as well as issues relating to functioning of new competition agencies and competition systems.
Expertise : Law, Competition Law and Policy, Antitrust Law, Economic Regulation, State Subsidies, Governance.
Dr McLoughlin is an expert on the Northern Ireland conflict and peace process (including Irish-America/US government and EU dimensions), and the political history of Ireland.
Expertise : Northern Ireland conflict and peace process (including Irish-America/US government and EU dimensions), and the political history of Ireland.
Dr Collins' group is focused on proteomics - the large-scale analysis of proteins from biological samples.
Expertise : Proteomics, mass spectrometry, protein chemistry, protein complexes, post translation modifications
Professor Christopher McCabe is a health economist, specialising in the field of health technology assessment.
Expertise : Economics of health care, health care market access, and economic issues of infectious disease outbreaks.
Professor Christopher McCrudden is a world-leading expert human rights and equality law at the School of Law, Queen’s University Belfast and the William W Cook Global Law Professor at the University of Michigan Law School.
Expertise : human rights law, equality law, European Union Law, Human rights in Northern Ireland, European Economic Area, Brexit
Dr Buckley's research focuses on poor outcome cancers with a focus on triple negative breast cancer.
Expertise : Breast cancer, Triple negative breast cancer, Targeted and personalised treatment options
Dr Skvortsov is an expert in bacteriophages and their enzymes as novel antimicrobials and biotechnological tools.
Expertise : Bacteriophages, Viruses, Molecular Microbiology, Microbial Biotechnology, Microbial Bioinformatics, Antimicrobial Resistance
Dr Larrañeta is an expert in development and characterisation of medical devices for long-acting drug delivery.
Expertise :  Drug delivery systems, Medical devices, 3D-Printing, Biomaterials, Pharmaceutics
Professor Dimitrios Lamprou is an expert in Emerging Biopharmaceutical & Pharmaceutical Technologies.
Expertise : 3D Printing, Bioprinting, 4D Printing, Microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, Nanomedicine, Emerging Technologies, Medical Implants, BioMEMS
Professor McAlinden is a world-leading expert on the subject of sexual offending against children.
Expertise : sexual offending against children, grooming, child sexual abuse, exploitation, institutional child abuse, peer abuse
Professor Muijs is an expert in quality of teaching and leadership in schools, educational policy, and accountability.
He has worked at universities in England, Belgium and the Netherlands, and at Ofsted.
Expertise : Education policy; Accountability, inspection, exams; Teaching quality; School quality; and School improvement.
Dr Doran has worked as a consultant writer with the UN Climate Change Convention, going back to the negotiation of the Kyoto Protocol, and has written on the topics of climate change; mindfulness; environmental governance and activism on the island of Ireland; rights of nature, including a recent book on the 'mindful commons and the attention economy'.
He has worked in NGOs and in parliamentary settings on both sides of the border, and at the United Nations.
Expertise : Climate change, mindfulness, environmental governance and activism on the island of Ireland, rights of nature, Brexit
Dr Ciaran Mulholland is a consultant psychiatrist with the Northern Health and Social Care Trust in Northern Ireland and a Senior Lecturer in the Centre for Medical Education at Queen’s University.
Expertise : mental health, psychotic disorders, aetiology of psychotic illnesses, psychological trauma, coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19
Professor Gallagher’s development of the shared education programme to create trust and friendship in divided societies is having an impact worldwide.
Expertise : Education, education in divided societies, shared education
Dr Fliers is a corporate finance and governance specialist, his multidisciplinary research focuses on financial decision making.
Expertise : Finance, Economics, Management, Economic History, Governance
The relationship between economics and history: in particular how incentives have shaped past as well as contemporary businesses in Ireland.
Expertise : Economic History, Business History, Topics in Contemporary Business Economics (e.g.
Brexit, Regions and Devolution), Applied Institutional Economics, Economic Organisation of Violence, Communicating Economics (e.g.
pedagogy and public understanding)
Professor Hewitt-Dundas' research interests include the dynamics of innovation ecosystems in an international context, innovation, technology transfer and networks with an emphasis on small and medium enterprises, business strategy and technology adoption.
Expertise : business, innovation, business growth, technology adoption, management, industry
Dr Dunne's research looks at child health, wellbeing and development in schools and communities.
Expertise : Child health, wellbeing and development; Early child development and peacebuilding in low-and-middle income countries; programme evaluation; and systematic review.
Professor Smartt is an astrophysicist specialising in surveying the sky for transient and explosive events.
Expertise : astrophysics, space, supernovae, exploding stars
Louise Mallinder is a Professor of Law and Fellow of the George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace,Security and Justice.
She is a leading expert on how transitional justice and international law operate in times of authoritarianism, conflict and peace at the international level and in several countries around the world.
Expertise : transitional justice, conflict transformation, peace studies, legacy issues in Northern Ireland, amnesty laws, human rights
Professor Franziska Schroeder conducts research in the areas of inclusive and accessible music technologies and music improvisation.
At Queen’s, she leads the “Performance without Barriers” research group (Vice Chancellor’s Prize for Research Innovation 2020), that focuses on building sustainable environments for inclusive music-making through participatory design practices, led by the insights of the disabled community.
Expertise : inclusive and accessible music; music; performance; improvisation
Tunde Peto is Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology at Queen’s University Belfast, Clinical Lead for Diabetic Eye Screening Programme Northern Ireland and a Consultant Ophthalmologist in Medical Retina.
She has been named as one of the UK’s 25 most influential researchers who study diabetes complications and is internationally renowned for establishing diabetic retinopathy screening and training programmes.
Expertise : chronic blinding diseases, ophthalmic image analysis, epidemiology and statistics, diabetic retinopathy screening and training programmes
His work focusses on the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, the drivers of biodiversity change and the consequences of biodiversity loss for ecosystem stability.
Expertise : Biodiversity and its interplay with climate, Nature, Resilience and Nature based Solutions, Climate
Professor Price is a leading academic in engineering with extensive industry experience.
He is focused on design and manufacturing and particularly how new approaches to design are needed to take advantage of the brave new world offered by advanced manufacturing technologies.
Expertise : aircraft structures, design automation for airframes, aerospace
Professor Lawler is an internationally renowned scientist with over 30 years experience in cancer research, who is passionate about translating his research for the benefit of patients and society.
Expertise : Cancer, Genetics, Precision Medicine, Health Data, COVID-19 and cancer, Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement in Research.
Professor Fitzsimmons studies icy comets from the cold outskirts of our Solar system, and rocky asteroids that can pass too close for comfort.
Expertise : Astrophysics, solar system, asteroids, comets, space, space mining
Professor Meharg has gained a worldwide reputation for his research into a global food problem – the high levels of toxic arsenic in rice, the staple diet of half the world’s population.
Expertise : Food security, contaminants in food
Dr Flear is an expert in the law and ethics of pandemic preparedness planning and response.
Expertise : EU, European law, Governance, Public Health, Pandemic Preparedness and Response
Professor Mills' interests are in translational research in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with the aim of improving diagnosis, prognosis and prediction of therapeutic responses.
Expertise : molecular mechanisms in myeloid blood cancers, epigenetic alterations, DNA repair deficiency, altered signal pathways to identify therapeutic targets for novel agents or repurposed drugs using drug screens and/or NGS, coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19, virology, respiratory disease
Adlakha's research focuses on generating, translating and scaling up evidence for reducing environmental health and social disparities, particularly factors affecting prevention, control and mitigation of chronic and acute non-communicable diseases in populations.
Expertise : Environmental health, Non-communicable diseases, Geospatial health disparities
Dr McKenna combines specialist patient care with dental education and research.
His research is focused on improving oral health particularly for older adults.
Expertise : Dentistry, Oral Health, Gerodontology, Oral Health of Older People, Oral Health in Care Homes, Oral Cancer
Professor McGarry is one of Ireland’s leading historians.
His work has helped shape understanding of contentious history in our divided society.
Expertise : Modern Ireland, political violence, public history
Professor Donnelly holds the Chair in Pharmaceutical Technology in the School of Pharmacy and is Director of the university’s £3M pioneer research programme Materials & Advanced Technologies for Healthcare , comprising 55 academics from Pharmacy, Chemistry & Chemical Engineering, Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Biological Sciences, Nursing and Medicine.
Expertise : Drug delivery, pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Technology
Professor Elborn is a well-established international leader in healthcare having driven major changes in healthcare delivery in the field of cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis.
Expertise : Medicine, health, Cystic Fibrosis, bronchiectasis, Respiratory
Throughout his academic medical career, Professor O’Sullivan has been committed to improving the lives of patients with prostate cancer through research and innovation.
Expertise : cancer, cancer research, prostate cancer, molecular radiotherapy, External Beam Radiotherapy, Advanced prostate cancer, Castration resistant prostate cancer
Professor Colin Harvey is Professor of Human Rights Law in the School of Law, Queen’s University Belfast, a Fellow of the Senator George J Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice, and an Associate Fellow of the Institute of Irish Studies.
Expertise : Law, Brexit, Human Rights
Professor Katy Hayward is a sought-after expert on Brexit, the Irish border and the peace process, and a leading political sociologist on the island of Ireland.
Expertise : 1998 Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement; Border management; Brexit; Cross-border conflict and cooperation; EU integration; Irish border; Northern Ireland politics and society; Peace and conflict processes; Political sociology;
His main research interests focus broadly on high latitude/altitude settings.
This work typically focuses on integrating geomorphological and stratigraphic information from offshore 3D and 2D seismic data, borehole/core data, and remote sensing of land areas.
Expertise : glaciology, geology and geophysics, climate change of ice sheets, glaciers, sea/lake/river ice, the energy transition, carbon capture and storage
Professor Swindles has broad research interests in Earth System Science and works on topics concerning both past, present and future climate and environmental change.
He has particular interests in global peatland dynamics, peatlands as nature-based climate solutions and the response of arctic ecosystems to climate warming.
Expertise : Climate change, nature-based climate solutions, peatlands, earth system science, arctic
Dr Mullan's research focuses on the development of regional and site-specific future climate change scenarios using statistical downscaling techniques, and their application to a wide range of environmental and socio-economic impact sectors.
Expertise : climate modelling; future climate scenarios; climate change impacts
Dr Madjid Karimirad is carrying out research on analysis, testing, development and design of offshore renewable energy structures.
This covers offshore wind turbines both floating and bottom-fixed, wave energy converters, tidal turbines as well as floating solar units.
Expertise : Assessment and Analysis of Offshore Renewable Energy, Marine Structures, Floating Wind Turbines, Floating Solar, Offshore Wind, climate
Dr Manyar's research interests are in the area of heterogeneous Catalysis and Green Chemical Processes with projects in Energy, biofuels, fuel additives and renewable chemicals.
Expertise : Sustainable energy, production of biofuels and renewable chemicals through valorisation of waste biomass and CO2 capture and conversion, climate
Invasive alien species and their impacts e.g.
ecological, environmental, economic, agricultural, freshwater, marine, terrestrial, effects on sustainability and synergy with climate change.
Expertise : Invasive alien species and their impacts e.g.
ecological, environmental, economic, agricultural, freshwater, marine, terrestrial, effects on sustainability and synergy with climate change
Professor Congdon’s research is about delivering high-quality, low-cost eyecare in underserved areas of low and middle-income countries.
Expertise : Global eye health, refractive error in children and adult, cataract, glaucoma, diabetic eye disease, Chinese healthcare system
Dr Elodie Fabre is a lecturer in politics and international studies within the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics.
Expertise : UK politics, devolution, and political parties, and citizen participation and democratic innovations (referendums, citizens’ assemblies/juries), as well as French politics.
She speaks fluently in English and French.
Dr Phillips’ research focuses on the conservation ecology of big fish, including tuna, sunfish and sharks, to better understand and protect marine ecosystems.
Expertise : Marine biology, fish, sharks, science, conservation, biotelemetry, ecology, science outreach
Professor Ellis’s career has been driven by the belief that people’s health and well-being are strongly shaped by the places they live, and that the way we build cities is crucial to securing a high quality of life for all.
He has also focussed on the need to address climate change through spatial planning, including fostering energy transition through social engagement.
Expertise : Environmental Planning, Natural and Built Environment, healthy cities, urban planning, urban growth, sustainability, energy transition
Professor Dillenburger is a Board Certified Behaviour Analyst-Doctoral (BCBA-D) and clinical Psychologist (HCPC).
Her expertise lies in ABA, parenting, autism, and mental health.
Expertise : Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA); education, autism, mental health, parenting, challenging behaviour, learning, disability, clinical psychology, coronavirus, corona, covid-19
Professor McGowan’s research focuses on European Politics.
Over the last two decades, he has developed an international reputation for expertise in the politics of competition policy and produced the first major work from political science on the EU competition regime.
Expertise : European Union, EU governance, European competition policy, far right, Brexit
Professor Salto Tellez is an international pathologist and is one of the drivers behind the Precision Medicine Centre of Excellence.
Expertise : Cancer research, precision medicine, artificial intelligence, digital pathology
Professor Michael Semple works on innovative approaches to peace-making and engagement with militant Islamic movements in Afghanistan and South Asia.
Expertise : Afghanistan, Pakistan, Taliban, terrorism, conflict resolution
Professor Stapleton conducts research in the areas of new musical instrument design, music performance, sound design, and critical improvisation studies.
Expertise : music, instruments,  improvisation, sound design
Professor Maruna’s primary expertise is in the reintegration experiences of former prisoners in society.
Expertise : Probation, prisons, parole, personality disorder, punitive public attitudes, rehabilitation/resettlement, and desistance from crime.
Specialises in the effects of animal management on their performance, ability to cope with challenges, such as pathogens, and environmental impact.
Expertise : Environmental and climate-change impacts of agriculture; Sustainability in animal food systems; sustainability of agricultural systems; environmental impacts of agricultural systems; reducing agricultural carbon footprint; reducing agricultural emissions
Dr Ribianszky is a lecturer in pre-Civil War US History whose research centres on enslaved and free Black people, race relations, violence, gender, and sexuality.
Expertise : Race, Race Relations, Gender, Sexuality, Violence
Professor Phinnemore is widely regarded as one of Europe’s leading academic experts on the European Union and Brexit, particularly in relation to Northern Ireland.
Expertise : European Union, Brexit, Northern Ireland, Politics, International relations
Senior diplomat who served as UK Consul-General in Hong Kong (2016-20) and Ambassador to Myanmar (2009-13).
Expertise : Hong Kong; Hong Kong Protests; Sino-British Joint Declaration; Hong Kong National Security Law; Myanmar (Burma); Aung San Suu Kyi; Rohingya; China foreign policy; US/China relations; Popular uprisings; sanctions policy; UK Foreign Policy; diplomacy
Professor McGowan is President of the European Association for American Studies and his research analyses the intersections of literature, politics, history and culture in the United States.
Expertise : American/US culture and literature
Dr McKnight is improving risk prediction, diagnosis, prognosis, therapies, and associated information for people living and working with inherited conditions.
Expertise : biobanking, molecular epidemiology for rare and common complex conditions, multi-omics, rare disease registry
A former primary school teacher, Professor Thurston’s work is focussed on how to improve learning in high poverty schools.
He is an expert in the use of cooperative learning techniques in the classroom and a pioneer of the use of randomised trials in education.
Expertise : education, literacy, school improvement, improving literacy, cooperative learning, educational research
Dr Josue Ortega is a lecturer in economics at Queen’s University Belfast, where he teaches Economics of Networks and Institutions.
Expertise : Evolution of networks, Economic integration
Her Research interests are in the area of the development and evaluation of psychological (e.g.
cognitive behaviour therapy)/behaviour change interventions to reduce the psychological sequelae of physical health conditions (cancer, chronic pain, asthma, IBD) as well as disease prevention through encouraging lifestyle change (e.g.
diet/oral hygiene).
Expertise : Health behaviour change, Psychological interventions for improving quality of life of those with medical conditions (chronic pain, cancer, asthma), Oral health in children
Dr Carney’s work research aims to further our understanding of ageing and older people, cultural gerontology, politics of ageing or gender scholars with an interest in ageing societies.
Expertise : Gerontology, Politics of ageing, Social Policy, Ageing
Paul is engaged in transdisciplinary, collaborative research that focuses on two broad areas: simulation-based education for health and social care; arts-based interventions for public health.
Expertise : Drama, Healthcare, Simulation-based education for health and social care, Arts-based interventions for public health
Professor Heather Conway is an expert on death laws, and the legal issues around funerals and dealing with the dead.
Expertise : bodily disposal laws, burial, cremation, funeral planning, family funeral disputes, exhumation, commemorating the dead
Professor Dave Archard has applied moral, political and legal philosophy to issues of contemporary concern and played a prominent role in the public world of law and policy.
Expertise : rights of the child, duties of parents, family, nature of the family, sexual consent, privacy, multiculturalism, nationalism, education, coronavirus, covid-19, corona
His research focuses on evaluating mechanisms of excessive inflammation in lung disease and how this may predispose to bacterial and viral infection in the lung.
Primary disease interests include Cystic Fibrosis, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
Expertise : cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and ccute respiratory distress syndrome, coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19, virology, respiratory disease
His work is currently supported by a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) Fellowship.
Expertise : virus immunity, cytokines, interferons, human pathogens, coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19, virology, respiratory disease
Power’s research is focused on studying respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) pathogenesis and how this can be prevented by vaccines or treated with drugs.
Expertise : Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), coronavirus, corona virus, covid-19, virology, respiratory disease
Professor Bengoechea’s research into combatting the multidrug resistant microbe Klebsiella pneumoniae – one of the hospital superbugs – is recognised worldwide.
Expertise : cell biology, medical research, antibiotic resistance
Dr Andreasson is a political economist with expertise in American Politics and African politics relating to resources and development.
Expertise : International Political Economy, Development, Energy, Africa, USA
Dr Thomson’s research examines militias in civil wars such as in Colombia and the US sponsorship of paramilitary actors in the Middle East.
Expertise : US counterinsurgency, US irregular warfare, US use of non-state armed actors, Militias in Colombia, Colombian peace process, militia actors in civil wars.
Professor Carruthers is a world-leading expert on the French language (variation and change; the structure of oral French) and on Language Policy.
Expertise : Modern Languages in the UK, Language Policy, French language
Dr Kieran Connell is a leading historian of post-war Britain, and has particular expertise in the histories of immigration, multiculturalism and popular culture based in the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics.
Expertise : Race, immigration, multiculturalism, popular culture
Professor Tunney's research focuses primarily on the improved detection and treatment of lung infection in patients with respiratory diseases such as cystic fibrosis (CF), bronchiectasis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Expertise : lung infection, Cystic Fibrosis, antibiotics, antimicrobial resistance
Professor Torres has an international reputation in Spanish Renaissance (‘Golden Age’) Literary and Cultural Studies; her major contribution has been in the field of Renaissance and Baroque poetics.
Expertise : Early Modern Spanish Literature and Culture; Spanish Language; Renaissance Humanism; Classical Heritage.
Professor Neil Robertson produces Artificial Intelligence for the real world.
Expertise : Face recognition, visual security, artificial intelligence
Professor Rebelo is a composer, sound artist and performer working primarily in chamber music, improvisation and sound installation.
His work brings together a critical and practice-based understanding of sound which is articulated in performance, composition, exhibition and writing.
Expertise : music, conflict, sound, sound installation, chamber music, improvisation
Professor Noemi Lois is a Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology in the Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine and a Medical Retina specialist and Vitreoretinal Surgeon at the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust.
Expertise : health, medicine, diabetic retinopathy
Professor De Silva built the fluorescent PET sensor design tool generally useful for molecular scientists, collaborated to construct the market-leading OPTI blood electrolyte/gas analyser and invented the experimental field of molecular logic-based computation.
Expertise : sensor technology, chemistry, photophysics, photochemistry, sensors
Professor Chen, an expert in polymer nanocomposites, takes a holistic approach to research, combining synthesis, functionalisation, processing, characterisation and application of polymers, nanoparticles and polymer nanocomposites.
Expertise : Materials Science and Engineering, Polymers, Nanocomposites, Nanomaterials
Professor Atkins has a distinguished career as an industrial R&D Manager, Project Manager as well as several Chief Technologist, and Chief Technology Officer roles in addition to his current post as CEO of Green Lizard Technologies (a QUB spin-out company) and his Chair of Chemical Innovation and Sustainability.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Queens-insight:
Evidence-based opinions from Queen’s thinkers as featured on a range of platforms including The Conversation, an independent source of news and views sourced from the global academic and research community, and QPol the ‘front door’ for public policy engagement at Queen’s.
By Prof Katy Hayward, Dr Paula Devine and Dr Jonny Hanson.
The post Cold public attitudes in the face of climate crisis appeared first on Queen's Policy Engagement .
Date published - 25/06/2025
By Dr Ronagh McQuigg The post The New African Union Convention on Ending Violence Against Women and Girls appeared first on Queen's Policy Engagement .
Date published - 15/06/2025
By Dr Ronagh McQuigg
The post The New African Union Convention on Ending Violence Against Women and Girls appeared first on Queen's Policy Engagement .
By Professor Mark Lawler.
The post The Serendipity of Science: COVID’s Silver Lining appeared first on Queen's Policy Engagement .
Date published - 26/05/2025

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/2025/stars-sustainability-award.html:
STARS is a globally recognised, transparent, and comprehensive framework that measures the sustainability performance of colleges and universities across their research, education, outreach, and operational activities.
With over 380 institutions currently holding a valid STARS rating worldwide, Queen’s now joins an elite group of global universities to achieve the GOLD standard.
Queen’s President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, said:
“This GOLD rating is a landmark achievement for Queen’s and reflects our deep institutional commitment to sustainability across all that we do at the University, from research and teaching to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), Estates, Campus Food and Drink, Public Engagement, and People and Culture.
“This recognition strengthens our global reputation, supports our civic mission, and shows that Queen’s is dedicated to delivering on our climate and sustainability commitments.
It is a reflection of the collective efforts of colleagues across the University, and I extend my sincere thanks to everyone whose dedication and hard work made this possible.
“This is not just a celebration of what we’ve achieved so far but is also a commitment to continual progress.
Queen’s remains dedicated to lead by example and inspire others in the academic community to embed sustainability at the heart of their missions.
We’re proud to set the standard for the UK and contribute to global progress toward a more sustainable future.”
The Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) developed the STARS framework.
AASHE Executive Director Meghan Fay Zahniser, added:
"STARS was developed by the higher education sustainability community to recognize leadership in sustainability.
We are delighted to have Queen's University Belfast as the first STARS rated institution in the UK and hope their sustainability achievement and impact inspires others."
Queen’s was particularly commended for excelling in the STARS research subcategory, which recognises institutions that are carrying out research on sustainability topics.
The awarding panel noted the vital role Queen’s is playing in deepening global understanding of sustainability challenges and creating innovative technologies, strategies, and solutions to tackle them.
The University also received high marks in the curriculum category, which recognises Queen’s formal education courses that address sustainability.
This accomplishment highlights Queen’s commitment to equipping future leaders, researchers, and innovators with the knowledge and skills needed to guide society toward a sustainable future.
In recognising the innovative initiatives and bold strategies undertaken by the University that go beyond conventional practices, full marks were awarded in the Innovation and Leadership category.
Media inquiries to Queen’s Communications Office via email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk or tel : (028) 9097 3091 .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/2025/palestinian-educators-cairo.html:
The programme, organised in partnership with Forward Thinking, will be undertaken in association with St Mary’s University College who will deliver contributions virtually.
They will bring together expertise from Northern Ireland and the Palestinian region to share insights on education in societies impacted by conflict.
Across the Programme, participants will explore the theory and practice of trauma-informed pedagogy, which recognises the impact of trauma on students.
It grounds an educational approach in the understanding of how trauma affects learning, behaviour, and overall well-being.
Participants will also examine how the aims of education and educational debates can be applied to the context of conflict-affected societies, and the lessons that can be drawn from Northern Ireland’s education system as a transitioning society, including in its structures and curriculum design.
The University had initially planned to bring 40 educators from Gaza to Queen’s for a seven-day intensive course focused on capacity building within the Palestinian education system this week; however, due to visa complications, Queen's academics will now travel to Cairo instead.
Dr Ryan Feeney, Vice President of Governance & External Affairs, and Registrar at Queen’s University Belfast, said:
“Queen’s holds University of Sanctuary status and has a long-standing commitment to supporting education in conflict-torn regions, demonstrated through our partnership with the Council for At Risk Academics (CARA), our Copty Scholarships for Palestinian students, and by sharing expertise gained from Northern Ireland’s own journey towards reconciliation.
This visit reflects our belief in the transformative power of education to heal, rebuild, and offer hope for future generations.
“It is essential that there is ongoing international engagement now on how to rebuild the Education system in Gaza post-conflict.
It was our hope to facilitate this Programme on our campus in Belfast; however, the complications with visas meant this was not possible, and we will attempt to do this again later in the academic year.”
The Copty Scholarship was first introduced in 2020 by Gina Copty and Chris McDowell.
It was extended with investment by the University in 2024 to cover four postgraduate places for students with Palestinian nationality who live in Gaza or the West Bank, including East Jerusalem.
This year, one scholar has faced challenges being evacuated from the Gaza area due to the escalation of violence and greater restrictions placed on the movement of people.
Queen’s continues its efforts working with relevant governments to secure safe passage for the individual and has committed to their scholarship place remaining available until this can happen.
The Queen’s delegation visiting Cairo brings world-leading expertise in education in divided and post-conflict societies.
Collectively, their research and policy engagement have helped shape education reform in Northern Ireland and internationally, addressing issues such as integration, shared education, social cohesion, and the role of curriculum in reconciliation.
The ideas exchange with Palestinian educators comes as they consider the monumental challenge of rebuilding and sustaining an education system under the pressures of ongoing conflict, and help inform educational priorities in a future Palestinian state.
Professor Peter Finn, Principal at St Mary’s said:
“At St Mary’s University College, we feel privileged to make a small contribution to the process of rebuilding and shaping of education in Palestine.
Our focus is on the role of teachers and teacher education as well as community based educational initiatives and international outreach in offering some hope to a place which has been devastated.
We are very conscious of the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza and the fact that thousands of innocent children have been killed.
“Our approach is inspired by the thinking of Nelson Mandela about education.
Mandela recognised education as ‘the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.’ We do not underestimate the scale of the education challenge in Palestine and we know there are no ready-made solutions, however this collaborative initiative of Queen’s University and St Mary’s University College is based on the most precious human value of hope.”
The visit forms part of Forward Thinking’s ongoing work to promote inclusive dialogue and understanding, particularly in the Middle East, and builds on strong educational partnerships between Northern Ireland institutions and international communities affected by conflict.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/News/Allnews/2025/open-learning-programme-supports-lifelong-education.html:
This year’s Autumn/Winter programme offers a broad range of courses – from personal finance to visual arts – with each course offering an opportunity for personal development, as well as the discovery of new interests.
Fresh courses for this term include Emily Byers-Ferrian’s Writing and Publishing Life Writing/Memoir , which will offer participants the opportunity to write a piece for submission to RTÉ Radio.
And Dr Katerina Kolotourou will also lead a new course, An Introduction to Ancient Greece – examining the archaeology, culture and society of the Greek world dating back nearly four thousand years ago.
Closer to home in time and space, Dr Roy Nelson will bring learners on a tour of the Hidden Wealth of Wildlife, while Dr Gerry Cleary will offer walking tours of The Builders of Central Belfast .
And, as always, there is also an array of language classes to suit budding linguists at every level.
Most classes take place in person on the Queen’s campus, with a selection available online.
These include Technowar with Dr Steve Flanders, which examines the ten technologies which have changed warfare since 1914, and Leonardo da Vinci: Renaissance Man with Dr Matthew Barr, where Leonardo's drawings will be used to help understand a fascinating period in which boundaries between disciplines hardly existed.
Queen’s warmly welcomes anyone with a sense of curiosity to give the Open Learning programme a try.
Previous students are full of enthusiasm about their experience : “Absolutely love my course and it has enriched my days”, “I've always enjoyed, and benefited both culturally and in my career, from the adult learning classes I've taken in Queen’s; it's a great resource to have in the community”, and “Since I retired I have found the Open Learning courses a lifeline through winter.”
Professor Katy Hayward and Dr Cathal McManus, Co-Directors of the Open Learning Programme at Queen’s said: “The Programme is designed not only for registered students and staff, but also for those who simply wish to enjoy learning alongside others, guided by enthusiastic experts in their fields.
It’s an experience that can be as social as it is intellectual — a chance to explore new ideas in a welcoming and engaging environment.”
Enrolment is opened from Monday 18 August and the courses run from 22 September 2025 – 27 March 2026.
For more information and the full programme, please visit www.qub.ac.uk/ol or email: openlearning.education@qub.ac.uk
Media enquiries to Queen's Communications Office on email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/resources:
About this site
What’s On At Queen’s is the central source for information on the university’s events.
How do I submit an event?
Only Queen’s University Belfast staff or those promoting Queen’s University Belfast sponsored student events can submit events.
The primary method for an event to appear on What’s On is by publishing the event on your faculty/school/department’s website.
The event listing will then be discoverable by an automated search that will pull the event information across to What’s On.
Please contact the website administrator in your department to get your event published.
Note for T4 CMS users - when entering the event in to the CMS, please ensure the event is entered as a ‘DTP – Event Listing’ item.
This allows the event to be discovered by the automated search.
‘News’ items will not be picked up in the search.
For those without T4 access, the alternative method for an event to appear on What’s On is to submit the event details (date, time, venue, audience, event type, cost, registration link, contact details, image, event blurb) via email to eventscalendar@qub.ac.uk .
Publication of events is at the discretion of the calendar administrator.
What events can be posted?
Approved events that are hosted or sponsored by Queen’s University Belfast and its representatives may be advertised on What’s On.
Events must be open to the Queen’s University Belfast community or open to the public.
Examples of such events include (but are not limited to): lectures, conferences, webinars, exhibitions, performances, fairs, sporting events, workshops, open days and information sessions.
Outside companies or organisations may not post events.
If you are unsure whether your event can be listed on What’s On please contact the Calendar Administrator - eventscalendar@qub.ac.uk
When will events be posted?
Published events will be posted on What’s On generally within 8 hours of submission.
The calendar administrator reviews newly published events regularly to check the content.
Events submitted to the calendar administrator by email will generally be posted on What’s On within 24 hours of submission.
If an event does not appear to meet the requirements, it will be removed from What’s On.
Publication of events on What’s On is at the discretion of the Calendar Administrator.
Can my event be a ‘featured event’?
Featured events are managed by the Calendar Administrator, who will review suitability against criteria established by Queen’s University Communications department.
Please contact the Calendar Administrator directly with your request – eventscalendar@qub.ac.uk
How do I edit event information on the calendar?
If the event has been published to your department’s events website, please contact your website administrator to edit the event listing.
If the event was submitted directly to eventscalendar@qub.ac.uk please email through the requested changes.
Best practice for event listings on What's On at Queen's
What’s On is a public site, so all event listings will be visible to a wide ranging audience.
It’s important when creating the event listing that it contains information that will make sense to all viewers.
Images – Include a high quality image in the listing (ideally 960 w x 540 h).
Avoid using images with text – for example, please do not upload posters with lots of text-based information.
Ensure you have permission to use the image.
If you don’t have an image please refer to Brand Hub , which is the home for Queen’s University Belfast generic images.
The images on Brand Hub are free for staff to use, as long as they are used in connection with the promotion of the University.
You will need to request access via the Brand Hub homepage if you do not already have an account.
Managing Event Registrations – Event registration can be captured in many ways.
The most common methods are via Eventbrite, MS Forms or Google Forms.
Please ensure you include a link to the registration in the ‘Booking link’ field.
Tags – Including 2 – 4 descriptive key words in the tags field will help your listing be indexed in relevant search queries within the Queen’s website and will group common events together.
For example, the NI Science Festival event ‘QUB Marine Lab Open Day’ might be tagged with the keywords: NI Science Festival, marine biology, science.
It is important to use the same tag style consistently across common events so users can easily find related postings.
Publishing Timelines – The publication timing of an event can be pre-set using the ‘Publish Date’ field under the ‘Options’ tab in the event listing.
This feature can be used to delay the publication of the event until a set date in the future.
Note this will delay publication to both the local page and to What’s On.
If you do not set the publication timing, the event will publish according to standard timelines established by Information Services.
Expiry Date - it is best practice to set an expiry date for your event listing.
This can be done in the Options tab of the content piece in the CMS.
An expiry date means your event will automatically be removed from display on the date selected and will be archived so that it can be included in reporting data.
Terms of use
Events and event submissions must comply with the following Queen’s University Belfast policies:
Code of Conduct
Information Security and Acceptable Use
Event Health and Safety
Safeguarding Children/Vulnerable Adults
Copies of policies can be found on the QUB People and Culture site
The Calendar Administrator reserves the right to delete and/or edit event listings if the information provided does not meet the above mentioned criteria or violates university policy or local laws.
Have questions, feedback or still need help?
Please contact the calendar administrator - eventscalendar@qub.ac.uk
Useful links
Campus accessibility information
Holding your event at Queen's University Belfast
Conference and Event Planning Handbook

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/internationalstudentemployabilityprogrammebootcamp.html:
All sessions are stand-alone events however attendance and participation at all four workshops will count towards one activity which can be used for Future-Ready Skills Award.
Tuesday 9 th September 10am - 12 noon (Graduate School, Training Room 6)
International Student Employability Programme Bootcamp - Session 1 - Prepare
First workshop in a series of four in-person sessions for International Students.
Please sign up at this link: https://qub-csm.symplicity.com/students/?s=event&ss=ws&mode=form&id=83d4f884969ce3885b73029579b514d8
Wednesday 10th September 10am - 12 noon (Graduate School, Training Room 6)
International Student Employability Programme Bootcamp - Session 2 - Apply
Second workshop in a series of four in-person sessions for International Students.
Please sign up at this link: https://qub-csm.symplicity.com/students/?s=event&ss=ws&mode=form&id=0b9ddfa38ffd6c61dcf63d93d760dca6
Thursday 11th September 10 am - 12 noon (Graduate School, Training Room 6)
International Student Employability Programme Bootcamp - Session 3 - Action
Third workshop in a series of four in-person sessions for International Students.
Please sign up at this link: https://qub-csm.symplicity.com/students/?s=event&ss=ws&mode=form&id=b02ad7ded7f97451eb02bc68ea280325

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/welcometoqueensletsqubeginflagshipeventandfreebreakfast.html:
Welcome to your new home at the One Elmwood Student Centre!
Kick things off with us at 9.30am in Mandela Hall for a free breakfast.
Then sit back and relax with a welcome session from the Queen’s University Belfast team.
It’s your chance to get the inside scoop on university life from students and staff and meet the awesome people you’ll be sharing it with.
We’ll cover everything from getting the basics right and staying safe, to managing your money and living in our student community.
Think of it as your starter pack for smashing your time at Queen’s!
This event is for all new and returning students .
Please register in advance.
This programme is the same programme as Wednesday 10 September 2025.
Please ensure that if you have a school induction, at this time, that you attend your school induction.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/internationalstudentfair.html:
Come along to the International Student Fair held in Elmwood Hall.
We’ve invited several International Clubs and Societies for you to meet and potentially join.
Our key University Services including Accessible Learning and Wellbeing, SU Advice, SU Volunteer and Queen’s Sport will also be available and you can select a local bank and meet the Immigration Support Team.
Drop in!
No registration required.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/featured/qubeginwelcometocampuscelebration.html:
Celebrate the start of the new semester with #QUBegin - a campus-wide welcome filled with live performances, games, food, giveaways, and a buzzing atmosphere across Queen’s.
On the first day of semester, Queen’s will come alive with colour, music and excitement, as we welcome new and returning students back to campus.
From the Quad to the library and beyond, campus will be buzzing with activity.
Students can look forward to:
No booking is required – just come along and celebrate the start of a new semester and get a taste of what life at Queen’s is like!

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/connect/online-events:
Our series of in-person and live virtual events aim to provide you with the knowledge, confidence and skills to make informed choices about your future learning and career.
Join us and gain an insight into life at Queen's, along with useful information and advice which will guide you through your journey to University.
Please join us to learn more about:
Representatives from across the university will join this info session to answer your questions and, most importantly, get you excited about student life at Queen's in 2025!
The MSc Software Development is a conversion course designed specifically for graduates of non-tech disciplines, equipping you with the skills to launch a successful career in software engineering.
This industry-aligned programme covers everything from programming and web development to databases and software engineering, ensuring you gain the practical, hands-on experience needed to excel in the field.
With an exceptional graduate employability rate, this course is your gateway to opportunities with top global tech employers.
JOIN THIS WEBINAR TO:
If you’re passionate about making a real difference, our MSc Climate Change equips you with the interdisciplinary expertise to drive change at local and global levels.
Designed for graduates from any academic background , this forward-thinking programme explores climate science, adaptation strategies, sustainable solutions, and the human dimensions of climate change.
With a focus on real-world impact, hands-on training, and strong employer links, you’ll gain the knowledge and skills needed to shape policies, design solutions, and lead sustainability initiatives.
Discover how the Master’s in Software Development at Queen’s University Belfast can help you build a future-proof career in this dynamic and fast-moving industry.
About the Course
Designed as a conversion course, this programme is tailor-made for individuals from all academic backgrounds looking to pivot into the tech sector.
Whether you're from the arts, sciences, business, healthcare or beyond, there’s a place for you in tech, and we’ll help you get there.
This is an intensive one-year programme that requires no prior experience in coding or software development.
Whether you’re changing career direction or just starting out, you’ll gain the practical, industry-ready skills needed to succeed in today’s tech landscape, one that is increasingly shaped by AI, automation, and innovation.
You’ll graduate ready to contribute to a sector where human insight and technical expertise go hand in hand and where your background brings a unique advantage.
What to Expect:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Research/media/shaping-better-world-2020-beyond:
Amidst this period of global change, vibrant academic debate and discussion continues at Queen’s.
Keep up to date with the latest talks, lectures and debates taking place at Queen's.
Professor Irene Tracey is the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford and Professor of Anaesthetic Neuroscience.
For the past 25 years, Professor Tracey has been a world leader in furthering our understanding of pain perception, relief, and processing using advanced neuroimaging techniques and novel paradigm designs.
In the McCosh Lecture for 2025, Professor Tracey will explore the connections between neuroscience and religious belief to help us better understand the relationship between religion and the human.
Content warning.
This lecture contains images of physical injury and medical procedures.
Viewer discretion is advised.
This year's Annual Royal Ulster Constabulary GC Foundation Lecture saw Declan Lawn call upon his experience as an investigative reporter, screen-writer ('Blue Lights') and director to deliver insights on "policing at home and abroad".
Supported by the Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice.
The annual Sir Bernard Crossland Annual Lecture, 'Climate Change and the Engineer', with Guest Speaker, Sir Warren East, President of The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), took place at 5.30pm on Tuesday 18 February in The Great Hall, Queen's University Belfast as part of the NI Science Festival.
The Queen’s Annual Politics Lecture was delivered by Professor Toni Haastrup on 5 December 2024.
Prof Toni Haastrup is Chair in Global Politics at the University of Manchester since September 2023.
She holds a PhD in Politics from the University of Edinburgh.
An award-winning teacher and researcher, she is a 2022 recipient of the Emma Goldman Award from the FLAX Foundation for contributions to feminist research and knowledge in Europe, and the Emma Goldman Fellowship of the Vienna Institute for Human Sciences.
She is also a recipient of the ISRF Mid-Career Fellowship 2023-2024.
Queen's University Belfast (QUB) and the Centre for Competitiveness (CforC) hosted the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils (GFCC) 2024 Annual Meeting and Global Innovation Summit from 11-15 November 2024, under the theme of Global Sustainability and Economic Inclusion.
This landmark event with key international political and corporate leaders examined how, in an era of complex global challenges, innovation can act as the key driver of competitiveness, promoting global sustainability and economic inclusion on a worldwide scale.
On 16 October 2024, Pierre Hazan shared insights from his recent book Negotiating with the Devil: Inside the World of Armed Conflict Mediation (Hurst, 2024) to provide insider reflections on the political and ethical ‘red lines’ that shape talks with armed interlocutors, be they states or insurgents.
This book draws on Pierre Hazan’s many years in the little-known world of back-channel mediation, helping sworn adversaries to prevent, manage or resolve conflict.
The lecture explored in particular the acute practical and ethical dilemmas that affected his work in Bosnia, Ukraine, the Sahel and the Central African Republic.
The 2024 John Bell Day Lecture was entitled ‘From Bell non-locality to Quantum Communications & back to Network non-locality' and was delivered by guest speaker Professor Nicolas Gisin, University of Geneva.
This year’s Annual Harri Holkeri Lecture was given by Mr Pekka Haavisto MP, former Minister of Foreign Affairs in Finland, on Thursday, 6 June 2024.
He addressed the topic  of “The New European Security: Lessons learned from Finland's road to NATO”.
Following the address a Q&A was hosted by Professor Richard English, Director of the Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice at Queen's University Belfast.
This ‘In-Conversation’ event (hosted by Queen's on 15 April 2024) features Dr Barbara J.
Stephenson, Vice Provost for Global Affairs, UNC-Chapel Hill, and former U.S.
Consul in Belfast (2001-2004) and Sir Hugh Orde, former Chief Constable of the PSNI (2002-2009).
Together they bring extensive experience to the theme of ‘Policing and Politics in Divided Societies’.
The Prime Minister of Kosovo, Mr Albin Kurti, delivered a talk and discussion on State-Building in Kosovo and its Challenges and Opportunities in the Great Hall on Wednesday, 28 February 2024.
This was followed by a Q+A session hosted by Professor Joanne Hughes of the Centre for Shared Education in Queen's.
The Chief Executives' Club at Queen's together with Engineers Ireland, in association with the IET, were delighted to host the 22nd Annual Sir Bernard Crossland Lecture on Wednesday 21 February 2024, entitled ‘Igniting Northern Ireland’s Engineering Renaissance’ given by Dr Jayne Brady, Head of the Northern Ireland Civil Service.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events-at-queens:
Click here to find out more >
Start planning your unique event.
Call us today on 028 9097 5340 or email events@qub.ac.uk
This Modern Love, Jake Samuels Photography, Chris Heaney, Luke Joyce Photography, Toods Architects + Planners, RPP Arcitects Ltd, Northern Ireland Tourist Board

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/History-and-heritage:
Founded by Queen Victoria, the Queen's University in Ireland, was designed to be a non-denominational alternative to Trinity College Dublin which was controlled by the Anglican Church.
The University was made up of three Queen's Colleges - in Cork, Galway and Belfast.
Although it was the first University in the north of Ireland, Queen's drew on a tradition of learning which goes back to 1810 and the foundation of the Belfast Academical Institution.
Its collegiate department, which provided University-style education, closed with the establishment of Queen's and four of its professors and many of its students transferred to the new college.
The most significant date in the early years of the University's life was 1908 when the three Queen's Colleges, and the Royal University (which replaced the Queen's University in Ireland in 1879), were dissolved and replaced by the Queen's University of Belfast and the National University of Ireland.
As an independent institution, governed by its own Senate, Queen's flourished.
Increasing student numbers and new staff were accommodated in a number of new buildings and the academic programme increased in range.
Arts, Science, Law and Medicine were supplemented by Faculties of Commerce, Applied Science and Technology, Agriculture, and Theology.
Today, Queen's is one of the leading universities in the UK and Ireland, providing world-class education underpinned by world-class research.
He was also responsible for designing other Belfast landmarks such as Belfast Castle, Crumlin Road Gaol and the Customs House.
Since then, the University estate has grown to more than 300 buildings - many of them listed for their architectural importance.
They even share a motto - Pro Tanto Quid Retribuamus: "What shall we give in return for so much?"
In 1909 there were around 600 students, mostly drawn from the historic nine counties of Ulster.
Today there are approximately 23,000 from the UK and Ireland and more than 80 other countries.
Hamilton was an accomplished fundraiser who guided the university through a period of change and expansion.
He launched a major campaign urging the Government to increase its grant to Queen's, and he appealed to the public for endowments.
Some things never change.
The young university continued to expand and develop under the vice-chancellorships of classicist Sir Richard Winn Livingstone , political economist Sir Frederick Ogilvie and historian Sir David Keir , while Sir Eric Ashby - later Lord Ashby - played a major role in ensuring Queen's reputation on the national stage.
Dr Michael Grant , a renowned classicist, was chosen to follow Ashby.
He was succeeded by physicist Sir Arthur Vick , described as one of the most able administrators to hold the post.
Sir Arthur was followed by Sir Peter Froggatt who guided the University with ability, good humour and integrity through a period of great financial upheaval for the higher education sector.
He was followed by Sir Gordon Beveridge , who led Queen's during one of the most challenging periods in its history.
By the time of his retirement in 1997 Queen's was in a healthy financial position, and had developed and enhanced its commitment to equality issues, becoming an exemplar in this field.
His successor was the visionary Canadian, Professor Sir George Bain .
Under his leadership, the University implemented far-reaching restructuring and investment programmes and initiated the Campaign for Queen's - the most ambitious fundraising exercise in the University’s history.
He was followed by Professor Sir Peter Gregson , a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, who led the University into the Russell Group of the UK’s top 20 research-intensive universities in 2006 and to the title of UK Entrepreneurial University of the Year in 2009.
He has also led the development of formal strategic international partnerships between Queen’s and leading universities around the world, notably in the United States, India, Malaysia and China.
He was followed by Professor Patrick Johnston .
Professor Johnston joined Queen’s in 1996 as Professor of Oncology, later leading the establishment of the Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology and becoming its Director.
Prior to taking up his post of President and Vice-Chancellor, he was Dean of the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences.
His own research focus over 25 years was on the understanding of mechanisms of drug resistance to therapeutic agents.
The next President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast will be Professor Ian Greer .
Professor Greer has an international reputation of academic excellence and has held major strategic and leadership roles in higher education for some 25 years, most recently at The University of Manchester and at the University of Liverpool.
The Sir William Whitla Hall opened in 1949 and his former home at Lennoxvale is the residence of the Vice-Chancellor.
More recently Senator George Mitchell, key figure in the Northern Ireland Peace Process, held the position.
Northern Ireland’s former First Minister and Queen's graduate, Lord Trimble, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1998.
At Queen’s, we are proud of our connections to the Royal Family and their support for the University since the Queen’s Colleges were formally brought into existence on 30 December 1845 and named in honour of the reigning monarch, Queen Victoria.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/Leadership-and-structure/university-governance:
Queen's University can trace its roots back to 1845 when it was established as one of three Queen's Colleges in Ireland.
It is the second oldest university in Ireland, and the ninth oldest in the United Kingdom.
Queen's became a university in its own right under the terms of the Irish Universities Act 1908 following the signing of a Royal Charter by King Edward VII in the same year.
The University is an autonomous body and a registered charity.
The Charter underpins everything that the University does.
It provides a foundation for all of its activities and establishes a framework within which these activities should be undertaken and managed.
The Charter is supported by the Statutes and Regulations which give effect to its provisions.
The Charter, Statutes and Regulations
Senate is responsible for the ongoing strategic direction of the University, the management and administration of its revenue and property, and the general conduct of its affairs.
Senate profiles
Information on the University's corporate governance and core committee structure.
Directory of Committees

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/Global-research-institutes:
Research Areas
Excellent research conducted by researchers working in a range of core disciplines is the foundation for our research success, as demonstrated through the results of REF 2014.
Explore our Research
Pioneer Research Programmes
Through Pioneer Research Programmes, we stimulate novel interdisciplinary research collaborations to tackle challenges emerging on the global horizon
View our Pioneer Research Programmes
Global Research Institutes
Our Global Research Institutes bring researchers from different disciplines together on a scale that enables them to address major societal challenges.
See details below.
The Institute for Global Food Security aims to play a major role in delivering safe, sustainable and authentic food to the world’s population, and has become globally recognised for its excellence in research.
The Institute for Global Food Security
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice links peace-making with social transformation, examining the need for reform of state institutions alongside cultural and social healing.
It brings together researchers from fields as diverse as politics and computer engineering.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice
How can we accelerate the adoption of innovation to deliver economic impact?
Momentum One Zero enables economic growth and delivers civic value in key sectors by solving business and societal problems through research and innovation in advanced digital technologies (‘Secure Connected Intelligence’) and through the power of data.
Including cancer, respiratory conditions, eye disease and diabetic vascular complications.
These priority disease areas share processes and mechanisms.
The Institute focuses on common areas such as immunology, innate immune responses and aspects of infection, and works in partnership with the health sector and the pharmaceutical and biotech industries to ensure advances in therapeutics have the broadest possible impact.
The Institute for Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/People:
UNIVERSITY STRUCTURE AND GOVERNANCE
Integrity, Connected, Ambition, Respect, Excellence.
The University is committed to the application of these core values within our Institution or on our behalf.
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT TO OUR ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES
Queen’s directorates ensure the university’s professional and academic needs are fully supported.
This ensures effective communication, decision-making and advice on issues of critical importance to the working of the university.
Professor Maire O'Neill
Maire is a British Female Inventor of the Year and the youngest-ever engineering professor at Queen’s University Belfast She is widely regarded as one of Europe’s leading cryptography experts and the inventor of a high-speed silicon security chip that is used in more than 100 million TV set-top boxes.
Her current work focuses on the design of novel security solutions for communications applications.
Yi Kang Choo, LLB Law
Yi Kang Choo, the 2020-21 President of the University’s Malaysian Students' Society NI (MSSNI), who established a task force for international students impacted by Covid-19, has been named the 2021 Allstate NI Queen’s Student of the Year.
The Welfare Taskforce for Malaysian Students Abroad set up by Choo supported over 1,200 students and recent graduates during the pandemic, offering help and advice on the legal requirements and restrictions in place for those seeking to return home to Malaysia (and elsewhere) during the various stages of lockdown.
In addition to setting up the Taskforce Choo was commended for his leadership attributes, his role as an advocate for mental health (among both the student and local communities), and for volunteering as a mentor in the School of Law.
Bill Neely
Veteran TV journalist Bill Neely, BA Modern History and English (1981) – who spent almost 25 years at ITN and had spells at NBC News and BBC Northern Ireland – is the 2021 Allstate NI Queen’s Graduate of the Year.
Seamus Heaney
A Queen's graduate in his own right, Heaney was honoured in 1982.
Regarded as one of the most recongisable poets in the world, he won a Nobel Prize in 1995.
Vice-President and Chief Finance and Resources Officer
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Medicine, Health and Life Sciences)
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise)
Vice-President (Governance and External Affairs) and Registrar
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences)
Associate Vice-President for Operations and Chief People Officer
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global Engagement)
Pro-Vice Chancellor (Education and Students)
Interim, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Engineering and Physical Sciences)
Vice-President (Students and Corporate Affairs)
Associate PVC (Sustainability and Special Projects)

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/Getting-around:
Most of you will spend the majority of your time in the area around the main University campus, and the longest journey will be no more than 10 minutes.
Even if you choose not to live in University accommodation, you'll still be within a mile of your lecture theatre when you step out of your front door.
You'll have two social hubs nearby – Botanic and Stranmillis – and the city centre itself is only a 15-minute walk from Queen's.
Plan your travels around Belfast
The Belfast Bikes scheme came to Queen's in 2015, with three docking stations on campus.
You can locate them outside the Students' Union, the McClay Library and Elms BT9 Student Village.
The scheme enables you to collect a bike from one docking station and leave it somewhere else in town.
Membership is very reasonable for a full year and of course used bikes are widely available if you'd rather take yours home after a lecture.
Hiring a Belfast Bike
Belfast Bikes now available at Elms BT9 Student Village
The Big Loop Bike Hub has been revamped and is offering the same great services as before, but now under the new name of Freedom Cycles.
Freedom Cycles is located within Level 1 of the Administration Building, opposite the McClay Library.
The Hub offers a range of services, including lease bikes for students, refurbished second-hand bikes, puncture repair, safety equipment and much more.
For more information, including available services and pricing, visit Freedom Cycles website: https://www.freedomcycles.uk .
Taxis are easy to book and find in Belfast and can be a convenient but expensive transport option.
Two of the main local taxi companies in Belfast are ValueCabs and FonaCab .
You can book online, by phone or by downloading and booking on the app.
It is also possible to use Uber in Belfast.
You will need to have an Uber account to book an Uber taxi.
Click here for more information on Uber .
Taxi fares are metered and rates depend on the day and the time.
Long waiting times may incur an additional charge.
Most taxis accept payment by card.
Queen’s is a five minute walk from Botanic Train Station on the Bangor, Larne, Newry and Derry~Londonderry lines.
Coach and bus services arrive at Great Victoria Street, which is also connected by rail (or alternatively is a ten-minute walk).
The Enterprise Train service runs from Dublin to Belfast with an average of 8 trains per day with an estimated travel time of 2h09.
Trains from Dublin to Belfast depart approximately every 1h40mins.
A regular bus service also runs from Belfast Europa station to Dublin city and Dublin airport.
All public transport in Northern Ireland is organised by the Translink company.
Visit their website for more information on fares, timetables, journey planners and online ticket bookings.
Below is a list of their main services:
If you are aged 16-23 you can avail of the ylink card which offers a 1/3 discount of all fares on both train and bus services provided by Translink.
Queen’s is located in south central Belfast and as such is close to the both Northern Ireland’s main motorways, connecting it easily with the rest of Ireland.
Travel Times to Queen's
The table below highlights the distance and approximate journey times for a number of cities and towns across the north and south of Ireland.
* All distances are based on a central starting position within the city/town named and on your final location being the main Queen's Campus (The Lanyon Building or McClay Library) ** All Journey times are approximate and are subject to traffic/road works and other potential delays.
It is advisable that you check the conditions before commencing your journey and plan alternative routes accordingly.
SAT NAV address
If you are planning on driving to Queen's and have a SAT NAV available you can use the following address:
Queen's University Belfast, University Road, Belfast, BT7 1NN, Northern Ireland, UK
Located 13 miles (21 Kilometres) northwest of Belfast.
Getting from the airport to the City
For additional travel arrangements visit the Belfast International Airport Website
Located just three miles (5 kilometres) from Belfast City Centre.
For additional travel arrangements visit the George Best Belfast City Airport Website
Fast ferry services including Stena Line and P&O Ferries make multiple daily crossings from Northern Ireland to ports in Scotland and England.
The two main Belfast routes are from Liverpool and Cairnryan, both provided by Stena Line.
An alternative route runs from Holyhead to Dublin, with excellent motorway connections between there and Belfast.
Stenaline Ferries P&O Ferries
Visit Belfast, the city's official visitor website, lists all available accommodation: hotels; guest houses; bed and breakfast; hostels; and self-catering.
Visit Belfast
However, if you require access to the campus by car, please contact the Accessible Learning Support Officer in advance of your visit to arrange access.
Find out more about disabled parking at Queen's

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/about/annual-report:
Annual Report 23-24

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/GeneralRegulations:
The University Calendar: General Regulations 2024-25 is now available.
A downloadable PDF for the current academic year and archived versions for previous years are available via SharePoint (QUB Staff login required).
Download the Summary of Revisions to the General Regulations 2025-26 (QUB Staff login required).
The General Regulations for 2025-26 will be published in full on 1 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens:
E-Learning Made Easy
Starting your journey at Queen's is an exciting time!
To help you make the most of your university experience, we've created a dedicated collection of resources for you.
Discover essential information, helpful videos, insightful podcasts, and practical checklists to guide you through the new academic year and beyond.
Explore the resource now.
Online Registration
All students are required to complete ONLINE registration at the start of each academic year via the Qsis Registration Portal .
Need Assistance?
Get support with the Student Helpline
All students will be in receipt of an email from us with details on the registration process.
You can also refer to our FAQs and guides if you are experiencing difficulties.
For further information on when the 2025/26 portal is open please check out the Enrolment and Registration information page.
Get Ready for September 2025!
The Pre-Semester Welcome Programme is here to kick things off for all new and returning students.
While it's not compulsory, we’ve got activities and events that will help you meet new people,  get involved and start your university journey right.
Full schedule available here .
Follow us on Instagram for updates!
Your World-Class Welcome: Where Horizons Broaden & Friendships Begin
Join us to meet your new classmates and get to know more about university life, our campus and city.
Get treated to a free traditional Irish breakfast and join us for some dancing and ‘craic’ at our Irish Céilí.
New Study Abroad and Exchange students will be emailed with more information and the link to register for this event.
Please note this event is for invitees only.
Find out all you need to know about enroling & registering with the University
Support is available at all levels of your student journey.
Click here to find out how we can help
Build connections, and make the most of your student life
Prepare for increased daily costs with tips on budgeting, boosting income, reviewing spending, and maintaining well-being.
Ready for a successful academic comeback?
Discover essential information here.
Got a question?
Your answer may be found here.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates:
Academic & Student Affairs
Alumni Engagement And Philanthropy
Estates
Finance Directorate
People and Culture
Digital and Information Services
Global Marketing, Recruitment and Admissions
Research and Enterprise
Student and Campus Life

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices:
View Status of All Services
Welcome to the Queen’s Digital & Information Services website.
Digital & Information Services at Queen’s supports the vision and strategic priorities of the university by providing appropriate library and IT related services that support our students, staff, faculty, alumni, and the community.
The resources within our website will lead you to a wide array of library and technological services that we have made available to support teaching, learning, research and administration at Queen’s.
We have released the Digital & Information Services Plan which details how we will provide the tools and resources to enable Queen’s to maintain and enhance our global reputation.
Thank you so much for taking a moment to visit.
We would love your feedback.
Please send any questions or comments to isdirectorate@qub.ac.uk
Directorate Office 01.001 McClay Library 10 College Park Ave Belfast BT7 1LP
Tel: 028 9097 6346 Email: isdirectorate@qub.ac.uk
A-Z of Services

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News:
After a prolonged pause during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Library has resumed its strategic collection management exercise—a key part of maintaining a responsive, accessible, and sustainable academic collection.
This Gale collection includes letters, journals, logbooks, watercolors, engravings, and books produced by Macartney himself and those who accompanied him on the historic mission to China between 1792 and 1794.
As a new student at Queen's there are four things you need to know now.
For best results when searching Web of Science Core Collection, it is advisable not to use Smart Search
QUB staff and students have trial access to Adam Matthew’s Church Missionary Society Periodicals until 19th August 2025.
We are excited to inform you that Group Study Rooms 1 and 2 in the Medical Library will be undergoing refurbishment this month, with works commencing on Monday 4th August.
Scanned from source at the British Library, this collection contains a carefully curated selection of materials produced by the British Ministry of Information (MOI) and Central Office of Information (COI) during the period 1939–2009.
The Library is proud to announce its recent accomplishment in achieving accreditation in the Customer Service Excellence (CSE) standard for another year.
Access this clinical point-of-care tool on and off the university campus
We are pleased to announce that our EZproxy service migrated to the Cloud on 27th Aug 2024.
We are pleased to announce that our EZproxy service will be migrating to the Cloud on 27th Aug 2024.
QUB staff and students have trial access to Women’s Magazine Archive
QUB staff and students have trial access to Interwar Culture
A selection of works from the Simms Medical Collection is now on display on the ground floor of the McClay Library.
Queen’s University Belfast has joined Scottish Universities Press (SUP) in an exciting development for QUB academic monograph publishing.
The Library will no longer provide access to Lean Library extension after 30th April 2024.
This exhibition, situated on the Ground Floor of the McClay, celebrates student creativity and the ability to interpret Latin American short stories through textile making.
At the Library, we aim to alleviate the challenges posed by the ongoing cost of living crisis to support our students and customers.
We have several service initiatives aimed at easing the burden and enhancing the wellbeing of our customers.
Your gateway to a world of knowledge is now live!
Library Search, our new discovery platform goes live on 16th August 2023.
We are pleased to provide an update on the implementation of our new library system.
Queen's University is dedicated to promoting open research and responsible research assessment across faculties and schools.
Library Services celebrates being reaccredited with the Customer Service Excellence (CSE) Standard for another 12 months!
As part of the researcher development programme at Queen’s, staff and research students have access to Nature Masterclasses Online (NMO), which provides online professional development for researchers.
The Library has recently taken out a subscription to PressReader, a resource that provides unlimited access to 7,000 digital newspapers and magazines from 120 countries in 60 languages.
Student wellbeing and accessibility matters to us, so we have created a Wellbeing and Relaxation space in the McClay Library.
It features sound cancelling screens and is an oasis of calm for students against the busy backdrop of the Library.
In our 2021 Customer Satisfaction Survey we received feedback regarding the McClay opening hours.
We have listened and increased the hours that we are open.
The Library is excited to let you know that this year we are taking part in #QUBeWell University Mental Health Week from Monday 1st – Friday 5th March.
What's happening with UKRI?
Many people have heard of Edward Bunting and his unique manuscript collection held in Special Collections at Queen’s University.
What is perhaps less well known is that the most important manuscript in this collection is Manuscript 29 or MS 4/29.
Since 2014, the Library has been committed to ensuring a consistent and excellent delivery of service through a range of 18 Standards of Service.
Each year, we review these Standards, our performance, and set targets for the coming year.
Special Collections is pleased to host an exhibition of books, publications and ephemera from the private library and archive of curator Roberta Bacic.
As part of the Remembering Bunting Festival 2025, Special Collections and Archives will introduce and present a selection of the Edward Bunting manuscripts in the McClay Library on Friday the 28th of February at 2:30pm.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/UsingtheLibrary:
Some common library terms and what they mean.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/ResearchSupport/OpenResearch:
Welcome to the Library’s Open Research Support service.
This page provides a single point of guidance and access to the wide range of open research support services available to everyone engaged in research activities at the University.
For further information on open access or the Research Portal please email openaccess@qub.ac.uk .
The core idea of Open Research, also known as Open Science, is that the research process should be as open as possible.
This could apply to protocols, data, software and code as well as publications.
There are a number of benefits of open research, such as greater transparency of the research process, increased visibility, higher citation rates and greater opportunities for collaboration.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/SpecialCollections:
Special Collections & Archives provides access to books, maps, photographs and manuscripts from the twelfth century on, and the institutional archive of Queen's University Belfast.
All items held are considered to be of lasting research value.
A-Z of all collections
Manuscript and archive collections
Printed and published collections
Historic maps dating from 1567 to 1900
Records pertaining to the history of Queen's
Digital platforms to assist in using our collections
Exhibitions featuring manuscripts and rare books
Highlighing key subject strengths
CONNECT WITH SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
‌

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/LibraryAccessLocations:
Access for members of the University
Access for staff and students of other academic institutions
Access for members of the public
10 College Park, Belfast, BT7 1LP
Floor 1 of The McClay Library
Ground Floor of The McClay Library
Mulhouse Building, Mulhouse Road, Belfast, BT12 6DP
Medical Biology Centre, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast, BT9 7BL
AFBI HQ, Newforge Lane, Belfast, BT9 5PX

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/About:
The Library is responsible for the delivery of a range of services from the McClay Library and several other locations across campus.
The libraries receive over 1.2 million entries each year and provide access to over 590,000 print and 809,000 electronic books as well as more than 16,000 print and 115,000 electronic journals.
Library staff provide specialist support and guidance to enable staff and students to make best use of the resources available.
Our goal is to provide high quality library services and resources in support of the education and research activities of the students and staff of the University and of our other customer groups.
A library service which is at the heart of the University, providing access to first rate resources and expert guidance and support.
Our commitment to you
A driver for continuous improvement
Customer Feedback Policy and more
Tell us how we're doing

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/contacts:
Answers to your frequently asked questions
Subject specialist support
Library departments and services
Do you have feedback?

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/Locations/TheMcClayLibrary:
The McClay Library brings together wide-ranging library, computing and media services in a single location, blending the best features of a traditional library with the latest technology.
Study facilities include both places for quiet study and significant provision for group work, allowing students to follow their own individual learning style.
Training provided by Information Services is also based in the building.
The library's extensive book and journal collections support teaching and research in the arts and humanities, science and engineering, the social sciences and law.
The McClay Library is situated in College Park, at the top of Botanic Avenue.
Address: The McClay Library, 10 College Park, Belfast, BT7 1LP
Parking: The University's car parks are reserved for staff use during office hours though exceptions are made for students with disability who hold a Blue Badge.
However, there is usually unrestricted access to the car park beside the McClay Library between the hours of 16:30 and 08:00 and also at weekends.
Tel: 028 9097 6135
Email : mcclay.library@qub.ac.uk
Use this map to find out how to get to the McClay Library.
McClay Opening Hours - comprehensive opening hours for the full academic year
About The McClay Library - for more information about the Library Getting Started Videos - Guides to using The McClay Library
Student Guide to the Library at Queen's
Explore the McClay Library from your desktop or mobile device using our 360 maps
Includes the Customer Service Desk, Student Lounge, Cafe, Short Loan Collection, Language Centre, Group Study Rooms 1 through to 13 and Study Pods A & B.
Includes Special Collections & Archives and the CS Lewis Reading Room .
Includes Subject Support Enquiries

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/Locations/MedicalLibrary:
The Medical Library provides a service to staff and students of the University, particularly those in the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences.
It also provides a service for Health and Social Care (HSC) staff throughout Northern Ireland.
Information and resources for HSC staff are available via The Healthcare Library of Northern Ireland website.
Address: Medical Library, Queen's University Belfast, Mulhouse Building, Mulhouse Road, Belfast, BT12 6DP Tel: 028 9097 6021/8906 (General enquiries) Email: Issue Desk - MedicalLibrary@qub.ac.uk
Getting to Queen's Medical Library - further details on how to get to the Medical Library, including bus information can be accessed by clicking the link.
Standard term time opening
All service points shut down 10 minutes before closing time.
Please visit the Library Opening Hours pages for full information on vacation and non-standard opening hours, or contact the Library.
For more information about the Medical Library, including directions, please follow the link below: About the Medical Library

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/Locations/BiomedicalLibrary:
The Biomedical Library provides a service to anyone eligible to use the Queen's University Library, including Health and Social Care (HSC) staff.
The  Library is situated beside Reception on the ground floor of the Medical  Biology Centre.
It holds books and journals on biomedical sciences, health,  medicine, nursing & midwifery and pharmacy.
Study spaces are available and there are 5 group study rooms available for use (max.
occupancy 5), and 2 individual study rooms are also available.
The Study Room s can be booked through Queen's Online .
Computer facilities are available in the Student Computing Area on the 1st floor of the Medical Biology Centre.
Address: Biomedical Library, Medical Biology Centre, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast, BT9 7BL Tel: 028 9097 2710 Email: Issue Desk - BiomedicalLibrary@qub.ac.uk Map
All service points shut down 10 minutes prior to closing.
Please visit the pages for full information on vacation and non-standard opening hours, or contact the Library.
For more information about the Biomedical Library, including directions, please follow the link below:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/UsingtheLibrary/AccessingLibraryResources/ManagingYourLibraryAccount:
My Account facility also available via Queen's Online .
Use the facility to:
Use ‘My Account’ to manage your loans.
We aim to send students and staff an email alert before 7 night items are due.
If you have borrowed a standard loan item, you will receive an email notification about automatic renewals.
Students and staff receive overdues, recalls, reminders and other messages via their Queen's email account, so check your email regularly.
Other users will receive these notices in the email account they registered with.
If you have any problems with your Library account or emailed notices, contact us as soon as possible, and we will help to resolve them.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/qol:
Staff: Please use your Staff Number and password, supplied by People and Culture, as your login credentials.
Students: Please use your Student Number and password supplied to you at registration as your login credentials.
If you have received your degree classification/completed your course, you will no longer be able to use Queen's Online to access Qsis.
However, for a further period of time, you can access Qsis directly by clicking on the button below and entering valid login credentials.
Graduates and students who have recently received their degree classification/completed a course will not be able to access Queen's Online.
However, Graduates and Alumni can access their email by clicking on the button below and entering valid login credentials.
Please Note: Before you use the password management links below, check that you are set up to use Self Service Password Reset .
Usage of Queen's University computer resources is subject to Information Security and Acceptable use Policies .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/CollectionManagementattheLibrarySummer2025-1.html:
This initiative, which restarted in 2024 and continues into summer 2025 and beyond, reflects our commitment to supporting evolving research and teaching needs across disciplines.
Background
Collection management is a proactive process that ensures the library’s collections remain relevant, discoverable, and aligned with academic priorities.
Prior to the pandemic, regular reviews helped us manage space, improve access, and maintain a balanced collection.
The interruption caused by Covid-19 led to a backlog of unreviewed materials and a growing need to reassess how our physical collections serve the university community.
Why Now?
The decision to resume collection management was driven by several key factors:
Criteria for Review
Books are being assessed using a combination of qualitative and quantitative criteria, including:
Items identified for withdrawal are handled responsibly, with options for donation, resale, or recycling, depending on condition and demand.
Summer 2025 work completed
This summer’s collection management work included a wide-ranging set of targeted actions:
These actions were carried out in close collaboration with subject librarians to ensure decisions were informed and aligned with current teaching and research priorities.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/TheEarlGeorgeMacartneyCollection-trial.html:
This is a collection of a great variety of records related to Earl George Macartney's historic mission to China during 1792-1794.
The mission was dispatched by King George III of Britain in the name of congratulating Emperor Qianlong's 83rd birthday.
The mission's goals included the opening of new ports for British trade in China, the establishment of a permanent embassy in Beijing, the cession of a small island for British use along China's coast, and the relaxation of trade restrictions on British merchants in Guangzhou (Canton).
The trial will run until 23rd September 2025 and can be accessed here .
If this content is useful to your teaching or research at Queen's please send your feedback to deborah.wilson@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/SwitchingoffWebofScienceCoreCollectionSmartSearch.html:
Depending on how you access, or navigate within, Web of Science Core Collection, the database's new AI-powered Smart Search tool might be switched on.
For best results, in terms of search control and reproducibility, you should always use Advanced/Documents Search when running literature searches in Web of Science Core Collection (the database should default to this type of search when you access it via the Library's Databases A-to-Z at https://libguides.qub.ac.uk/az/databases?a=w ).
You might also consider toggling Smart Search to 'off', to minimise the visibility of the Smart Search tab.
Full instructions for doing this are available here: https://libraryhelp.qub.ac.uk/faq/282763
Screenshot of Web of Science Core Collection with Smart Search toggled off.
If you have any questions about searching Web of Science Core Collection, please contact your Subject Librarian: https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/contacts/SubjectLibrarians/

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/ChurchMissionarySocietyPeriodicals-1.html:
Church Missionary Society Periodicals features publications from the Church Missionary Society (CMS), the South American Missionary Society and the Church of England Zenana Missionary Society (CEZMS) between 1804 and 2009.
You can access this resource for this link: https://www.churchmissionarysociety.amdigital.co.uk
We would like to hear what you think of this resource.
Please leave your feedback here .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/MedicalLibraryRVHGroupStudyRooms1and2RefurbishmentAugust2025.html:
While these works are taking place, Group Study Rooms 1 and 2 will be temporarily closed and not available to book on Queen's Online.
Our staff are here to assist if you have any questions and will be able to help you find alternative study spaces.
The refurbishment works include the installation of new audio-visual equipment and are expected to be completed by September.
We hope that the impact of this refurbishment work is minimal, and apologise in advance for any inconvenience caused.
We will continue to provide updates via our social media channels and Library News.
If you have any feedback about these changes, we would love to hear from you.
Please submit feedback via the our online form: https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/CustomerService/Doyouhavefeedback/
Thank you for your patience as we make these improvements for our customers.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/News/BritishGovernmentInformationandPropaganda19392009.html:
QUB staff and students have access until 16 th August 2025.
You can access it from this link: https://qub.idm.oclc.org/login?url=https://britishonlinearchives.com/collections/100/british-government-information-and-propaganda-1939-2009
Please let us know what you think about it by completing this short survey: https://forms.office.com/e/ssngEzKfqv

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/ResearchSupport:
The Library provides a variety of services for researchers.
We hold collections and other resources which can form the basis of research projects and our expert services provide advice on how to make the most of these resources as well as giving guidance on all aspects of Open Research.
Open Access, Research Data Management, E-Thesis...
Rare books, archives, photographs....
Supporting scholars working with digital data, digital methods or in online spaces.
Discover key library resources by faculty and subject, contact your dedicated subject librarian.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/UsingtheLibrary/HelpandSupport/SocialMedia:
The Library uses social media as a communication tool to:
As a two-way communication tool, the Library also welcomes questions and feedback about its services and resources.
Find Queen's University Belfast Library on the following social media channels:
Facebook @QUBLibrary
Twitter @QUBLibrary
Instagram @QUBLibrary
YouTube @QUBLibrary
Please see refer to the main University Social Media pages for up to date policies on social media use for staff and students.
All data and information provided on the Library's social media platforms is for information purposes only.
The Library at Queen's makes no representations as to accuracy, completeness, currency, suitability, or validity of any information on this site and will not be liable for any errors, omissions, or delays in this information or any losses, injuries or damages arising from its display or use.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/CustomerService/Doyouhavefeedback:
If you are happy with the service you have received from us, or would just like to leave a comment or suggestion, we would love to hear from you.
We also want to know if there is any part of our service with which you are unhappy.
We take all feedback seriously and we will take action when appropriate to do so.
Please click the link below to send us feedback
Send Us Feedback

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/CustomerService/CustomerServiceExcellence:
We have achieved Customer Service Excellence Accreditation and use this standard as a driver for continuous improvement throughout our services and to validate what we already do.
What is Customer Service Excellence (CSE) Accreditation?
CSE is an independent accreditation of the quality and standard of our customer care.
The standard is championed by the UK Government.
CSE covers all aspects of our engagement with our customers, from front-line and face-to-face support, to liaison and communication and how we engage with customers in developing our services and strategy.
What we are doing:
As part of CSE process we are committed to seeking feedback and opinions from our customer base.
To this end we propose actively seeking and using customer experience and feedback through a number of channels.
More information
For more information on CSE please follow this link .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/students/key-contacts:
If you have an urgent query, please contact Student Wellbeing here .
If you are a Queen's student or a staff member supporting a student in need of urgent support, please consider the following:
Your GP or local Accident & Emergency Department .
The GP out of hours number for the University area is 028 9079 6220.
Out of Hours for other areas can be found here .
You can find a comprehensive list of helplines in Northern Ireland here .
Your GP or local Accident & Emergency.
The Doctor/GP out of hours number for the University area is 028 9079 6220 .
Local Accident & Emergency Departments .
If you have been subject to a Criminal Incident (including hate crime, sexual assault, domestic violence etc.).
Please report via the following options:
999 (in an emergency), or 101 (non-emergency)
24 hour Domestic and Sexual Abuse Helpline on 0808 802 1414
You can report anonymously or with details using our Report & Support website.
If you leave your details, we will follow-up with you.
If you are concerned about your safety on campus please call the Security 24-hour number on 028 9097 5099 .
Queen’s Accommodation : accommodation@qub.ac.uk or Elms BT1: 028 9097 6040; Elms BT2: 028 9097 6441; or Elms BT9: 028 9097 4525
Advice NI Community Helpline : call 0800 915 4604 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm)
Cost of Living Student hub We have announced a multi-million support package of £7.69 million for students and staff facing the current cost of living crisis, and w e will continue to develop this, announcing further interventions in due course.
Cost of living advice and support
The Union is here to support you during your time at Queen’s.
Additional information on a wide range of support, including McClay Library and Queen's Sport Facilities is also available on My Queen’s .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/contact/enquiry:
Please choose which area of the university you would like to get in touch with from the dropdown below.
When you make a selection the relevant method of contacting that area will be presented.
If you need to contact our university by telephone and are unsure
              of the number to use, please contact our Switchboard team who will
              be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/contact/Departmentdetails:
Admissions T: +44 (0) 28 9097 3838 F: +44 (0) 28 9097 5151 E: admissions@qub.ac.uk postgrad.admissions@qub.ac.uk
Alumni T: +44 (0) 28 9097 3114 F: +44 (0) 28 9097 5188 E: alumni@qub.ac.uk
Student Services T: +44 (0) 28 9097 2727 F: +44 (0) 28 9097 2828
Immigration Support Service T: +44 (0) 28 9097 3820 F: +44 (0) 28 9097 3844 E: iss@qub.ac.uk
T: +44 (0) 28 9097 5347 E: ahsssec@qub.ac.uk W: Faculty of Arts, Humanities and social sciences
Medicine, Health and Life Sciences Pro-Vice-Chancellor - Professor Stuart Elborn
Tel: +44 (0) 28 9097 5882 E: pvc-mhls@qub.ac.uk W: Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences
Engineering and Physical Sciences Pro-Vice-Chancellor - Professor Chris Johnson
Tel : +44 (0) 28 9097 5443 E: pvceps@qub.ac.uk W: Faculty of Engineering and physical sciences

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/contact/Schoolofficecontactdetails:
School of Arts, English and Languages
2 University Square Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1NN
ael@qub.ac.uk
School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics
25 University Square Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1PB
happ @qub.ac.uk
School of Law
Queens University Belfast Main Tower Block Belfast BT7 1NN Northern Ireland United Kingdom
Enquiries law-enquiries@qub.ac.uk
School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work
69-71 University Street Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1HL
Queen's Business School
Riddel Hall 185 Stranmillis Road Belfast BT9 5EE
Queen's University Belfast 18-19 University Square Belfast United Kingdom BT7 1NN
School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering
David Keir Building Stranmillis road Belfast BT9 5AG
+44 (0)28 9097 5418
candce@qub.ac.uk
School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Computer Science Building 18 Malone Road Belfast Northern Ireland BT9 5BN
+44 (0)28 9097 4639
eeecs@qub.ac.uk
School of Mathematics and Physics
+44 28 9097 1386 +44 28 9097 5293
For General School Inquiries mp@qub.ac.uk
For Taught Education Inquiries mpts@qub.ac.uk
For Research and PGR Inquiries mp.research@qub.ac.uk
School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
School of Natural and Built Environment
Archaeology, Geography and Palaeoecology Elmwood Avenue Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1NN
Architecture, Civil Engineering and Planning David Keir Building, Stranmillis Road Belfast Northern Ireland BT9 6AX
Archaeology, Geography and Palaeoecology +44 (0)28 9097 3350
School of Psychology
Queen's University Belfast University Road Belfast BT7 1NN UK
School of Biological Sciences
19 Chlorine Gardens Belfast BT9 5DL Northern Ireland
+44 (0)28 9097 5787
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences
School of Nursing and Midwifery
Medical Biology Centre 97 Lisburn Road Belfast BT9 7BL
+44 (0)2890972233
nursing@qub.ac.uk
School of Pharmacy
+44 (0)28 9097 2086
pharmacyinfo@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens:
英国女王大学综合排名全球198位（泰晤士高等教育2023年世界大学排名)。
英国女王大学有13门学科排名世界前200名，其中三门学科排名世界前100名（2019年 QS世界大学专业排名）。
英国女王大学目前拥有来自92个国家的3800多名国际学生， 国际化程度世界排名第17 位 （2020年《泰晤士报高等教育》世界大学排名）。
的中国学生对学校提供的支持表示满意
英国女王大学96%的中国学生表示有安全感
英国女王大学毕业生前景跻身世界排名前170位（2022年 QS全球高校毕业生就业力排名）。
英国女王大学92%的毕业生在毕业15个月后实现就业或继续深造（2018/19年高等教育统计署大学毕业生去向调查），毕业生前景在英国排名第11位（英国好大学排名指南2022）。
此外，贝尔法斯特市还被评为英国十大数字化就业城市之一（2019年美国网络招聘网站Monster的“数字城市”排名）。 了解英国女王大学如何助力学生 提升就业能力 。
英国女王大学的科研强度排名全英第一位（2022年完整大学指南）。国际科研合作排名世界第九位（2014年科研卓越框架REF）。
作为罗素大学集团的成员之一，英国女王大学是公认的英国24所领先的 科研密集型大学 之一。
英国女王大学的研究人员致力于应对国际挑战，解决健康、食品、冲突和科技等方面的社会问题。学校提供世界一流的研究设施，让科究人员开展研究工作，大展宏图。
Queen's has announced (02 January 2020) the appointment of Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton as its new Chancellor.
Secretary Clinton, who received an honorary Doctor of Laws from Queen’s in October 2018 for her exceptional public service, will become the University’s 11th and first female Chancellor.
96%的在校国际学生对讲师的专业素养表示满意，92%的学生对学校在学习方面给予的支持表示满意（国际学生晴雨表）。
英国女王大学在英国最古老的大学中排名第九位。过去十年间，英国女王大学投资3.5亿英镑建设的 教学设施屡获殊荣 ，如 麦克雷图书馆 、研究生院、法学院和计算机科学学院大楼。今后十年，学校计划再投入3.5亿英镑。
因此，在英国44所大学中，英国女王大学的生活成本满意度排名第一，也就不足为奇了（2018年国际学生晴雨表）。
学校在体育方面的投资达2000万英镑，因此，英国女王大学体育设施满意度在罗素大学集团9所大学中排名第一位（2018年国际学生晴雨表）。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study:
英国女王大学是一所世界一流的大学，结合了卓越的学术水平和对就业能力的重视，使我们的毕业生在全球就业市场中占据优势。
学位课程

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business:
英国女王大学商学院是英国和爱尔兰最顶尖的商学院之一，一直以来致力于为全球学生提供一流的会计、 经济、金融、管理、人力资源管理和市场营销等专业的本科与研究生课程，为培养众多优秀人才而倍感自豪。
为什么选择英国女王大学商学院？
会计与金融专业位列世界前茅，在英国排名第9（2023年完全大学指南），其中职业前景方面排名全英第1（2023年卫报大学指南）。在最近发布的卓越研究框架（REF 2021）中，我们99%的研究环境被认为是世界领先或国际优秀。
此外，英国女王大学商学院还是雅典娜天鹅奖（Athena SWAN）铜奖得主。选择我们，在美丽的校园里，在这个适合学生学习与生活的城市里享受世界一流的教育。
*雅典娜天鹅奖（Athena SWAN）是一项由英国平权联盟发起的奖项，以表彰那些为工作在科学领域的女性给予充分支持的杰出院校和机构。
英国女王大学金融交易室提供了一个具有互动性和令人兴奋的学习环境，学生将得以将教科书中的理论付诸于实践。
女王商学院的毕业生在完成学位课程后的 6 个月内非常成功地获得了工作或继续深造。
女王商学院的学生可以获得许多资源和服务，以帮助他们在职业生涯中取得成功。
英国女王大学商学院拥有一支优秀的教学与科研队伍，致力于为学生提供高质量的教学体验。
访问我们的微博获取课程信息，并通过与商学院的讲师和在校学生互动，了解更多关于女王大学商学院的最新信息。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/belfast:
友好、实惠和安全，这只是贝尔法斯特其中三个优点。贝尔法斯特被评为欧洲最友好的15个城市之一。（2021年《康德·纳斯特旅行家杂志》读者选择大奖）
2016年现代的泰坦尼克博物馆被评为最佳旅游景点，而建筑奇观只不过是博物馆获奖的其中一个原因。
从各类私人画廊到国际著名的艺术大师，贝尔法斯特简直就是一座包罗万象的艺术殿堂，这里还有我们的诺顿美术馆和女王电影院。
贝尔法斯特是一个充满艺术气息的城市，艺术家、诗人、作家和音乐家的影响无处不在，我们就在城市的核心位置。
维多利亚广场、城堡庭院等购物中心位于市中心位置，汇集各类商业街店铺，满足各类人群的消费需求。你可以亲自登上维多利亚广场顶部，从玻璃穹顶一览贝尔法斯特市中心的全貌。
贝尔法斯特是欧洲最时尚、最具活力的首府城市之一。不信，你可以问问那些赞叹贝尔法斯特朝气与活力的《孤独星球》专家们，问问那些“引领城市潮流、充满活力的年轻人”。
与英国其他主要大学城市相比，贝尔法斯特的消费更亲民（美世，2016）
2017年贝尔法斯特的学生房租全英最低。（英国国民西敏寺银行公布的学生生活指数)
贝尔法斯特学生平均每周食品消费16英镑，远低于全英24英镑的平均消费水平。
贝尔法斯特的最佳出行方式是步行或者骑车。由于校园地处中心地理位置，大部分地方离你仅几步之遥。城市拥有便捷的公交、火车服务，并为学生提供各种折扣。
这里有地道的爱尔兰酒吧、独立的咖啡屋、隐蔽的小酒吧、精品熟食店，还有新鲜的街市食品。如果你准备买菜回家自己做饭，可以到亚洲超市采购一切你需要的食材。如果你想买些特别的东西，这里有来自各个国家的奢侈食材供校内外各层次的消费者选择。无论是古巴菜还是黎巴嫩菜，总有新鲜的味道等你尝试。
学生住宿区位于贝尔法斯特市中心“心脏”位置，绿树成荫。皇冠酒吧和大歌剧院毗邻女王大学主校区，步行只需15分钟。
HBO频道的电视剧《权力的游戏》就是在景色壮观的北爱尔兰地区拍摄的。亲自体验影视作品中的山脉、森林、城堡和海岸，你就会明白为什么北爱尔兰被选为影视剧最佳拍摄地。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability:
英国女王大学毕业生前景世界排名前170位 （2022年QS全球高校毕业生就业竞争力排名）
英国女王大学为学生提供职业、就业与技能指导，帮助学生培养就业能力。
指导学生做好职业规划、培养技能、增强自信，帮助学生充分利用各种机会，包括海外留学、实习和毕业就业。
刘王晨（音译），湖南人，在英国女王大学取得金融学学士并实 习一年
曹芝烨 金融学硕士 金融分析师，彭博 (BLOOMBERG) 北京
刘梅, 市场营销
多数企业都愿意雇佣相熟的毕业生，因此，英国女王大学的学生可以充分利用学校拥有的广泛的企业资源。安排学生进入相关企业实习，让学生熟悉工作环境和企业的运作流程。此外，通过校友导师计划，让学生有机会接触自纽约、巴黎、伦敦等世界各地的国际名企和优秀校友。
英国女王大学的战略性合作伙伴
专业的雇主对接团队，向国际就业市场的用人单位展示学生的个人价值。
• 在开创性的企业参观学习的过程中，每组学生安排参观8至10家有本科毕业生招聘需求的企业，并参与一系列商业经营活动、案例学习和招聘筛选活动。目前学校提供的参观活动包括布鲁塞尔、伦敦金融商务之旅、伦敦法律之旅以及亚洲和美国的全球领导力计划等。
学生通过志愿服务广结人脉、体验乐趣、充实简历，同时还能借此在忙碌的学习工作后休息一阵。通过志愿服务，还可以获得正式认可的学位学分。
无论你希望参与哪种志愿服务，总有适合你的机会。
成功的榜样。 英国女王大学建校历史位列全英第九位，自1845年以来，学校培养了诸多为世界做出贡献的杰出领袖、思想家和成功人士。
登陆，一 睹优秀校友风采 。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/contact-us:
如有问题或希望与我们在中国会面，请通过电子邮箱、微信或微博与我们在中国的团队联系
电子邮箱 china@qub.ac.uk
高级国际专员/高级业务发展经理
战略合作洽谈
向Catherine发电子邮件
商务发展官员
北区申请咨询
京津冀豫鲁晋陕甘黑吉辽蒙新青宁
向Lily发电子邮件
数字与市场主管
新媒体(微信微博等)合作
新闻和公关
学生故事投稿
向Carrie发电子邮件
南区申请咨询
沪苏浙皖赣鄂湘粤桂闽琼川渝滇黔藏
向Kiki发电子邮件
移民支援服务 iss@qub.ac.uk https://www.qub.ac.uk/sites/iss/
入学及录取 - 申请及录取咨询 intl.student@qub.ac.uk www.qub.ac.uk/ado
国际办公室 – 国际办公室主要联系方式 international@qub.ac.uk www.qub.ac.uk/International/
国际奖学金 – 国际学生奖学金咨询 internationalscholarships@qub.ac.uk https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships/
国际合作 – 国际合作洽谈、院校及学生咨询
学生财务处 - 学费相关- studentfinance@qub.ac.uk www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/finance/
Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre - 语言及桥梁课程 isc@qub.ac.uk https://qubisc.com/en
研究生院 - 研究生费用咨询 graduateschool@qub.ac.uk www.qub.ac.uk/sites/graduateschool/PostgraduateFunding/
学生服务系统 - 入学和注册 s.records@qub.ac.uk www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/srecords/
宿舍 accommodation@qub.ac.uk http://www.qub.ac.uk/accommodation/
针对课程的咨询
艺术、人文与社会科学学部 askahss@qub.ac.uk
工程与物质科学学部 askeps@qub.ac.uk
医学、健康与生命科学学部 askmhls@qub.ac.uk
如需更多帮助，您所在国家的英国文化教育协会也能提供在英国学习的建议。 请通过其网站寻找更多关于英国女王大学的信息。 .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/accommodation:
品质住宿，我们保证！
从位于市中心的一流房间到专门的学生宿舍村，每位同学的住宿需求都能得到完美的解决。
英国女王大学拥有3400间学生住房，可保障国际学生的住宿。同学们可以放心地住上环境安全、条件舒适、价格适宜的房间。
学校所有住宿区都紧邻校园，只需步行15分钟；同时地处零售区域中心，靠近餐厅和咖啡馆。
观看学生宿舍参观>
包含服务：
124英镑/周起
175英镑/周起
Elms BT1 和Elms BT2 公寓
Elms BT1 和 Elms BT2的公寓均配备现代化的独立淋浴室、配台灯的书桌、功能完整的厨房、餐桌和椅子、电视和高速因特网。
这两栋公寓位于贝尔法斯特市中心，距离英国女王大学主校区只有15分钟路程，交通便利。学生们可在这里体验到繁荣的咖啡文化，距离众多高级餐厅和夜生活仅咫尺之遥。当地的食品杂货店紧邻公寓，贝尔法斯特市的主要购物中心之一维多利亚广场（0.5英里）仅需步行10分钟便可抵达。
Elms BT9 公寓
Elms BT9 公寓为同学们在贝尔法斯特打造了一个安全可靠的新家，同时也为大家提供了大好机会，结识来自世界各地的新朋友。
Elms公寓的社区环境休闲舒适，距离马龙路（Malone Road）上的主校区和学生会仅10分钟路程。树屋（Treehouse）社交空间位于Elms BT9的核心区，设有每晚开放的咖啡吧、学习空间、商店、洗衣店和自动取款机。
安全和社交
宿舍餐饮自行解决，校区设计旨在为同学们营造家的感觉，促进同学之间的交往。
从抵达的那一刻起，英国女王大学将尽其所能地满足同学们的住宿需求。学校提出了《居住生活》计划，涵盖各种活动、精神支持、全天候接待、安保团队和维修支持。
学校的住宿生活协调员也会提供相关支持、帮助和指导，使同学们尽快融入适应贝尔法斯特的求学生活。
在英国女王大学就读的中国学生中， 96% 表示有安全感（ 2018 年国际学生晴雨表）
其它信息

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/student-life:
英国女王大学：我们相聚在这里
校园所处的女王区充满了国际化大城市氛围。女王区是北爱尔兰民族和文化最多样化的地区之一。学校定期举办各类文化活动，如：中国的春节庆祝活动以及马来西亚的文化演出活动。
目前，女王大学92%的中国学生表示自己感觉安全无虞（2020/21年秋季国际学生晴雨表调查）。女王大学为学生提供多样化的住宿选择，有同性宿舍、禁酒宿舍、安静宿舍。
学生可以自主选择最合适的环境和舍友。女王大学非常重视安全工作，安排宿管人员24小时值班待岗。
英国女王大学是英国第九古老的高等学府（大学指南大全2019），是贝尔法斯特文化、艺术和社交中心。这里的社交生活多彩、文化遗产丰富，作为大都市的一员，我们深感自豪。
英国女王大学附近有亚洲行和各式中餐厅，无论你是自己下厨还是外出就餐，各种口味应有尽有。
贝尔法斯特是一座繁华的时尚都市，满足不同消费层次和需求。这里有各类精品店、设计名师店、商业街店铺以及地方手工艺品和食品店。
拥有各类健康科学实验室、商务、工程和计算机设备。
包括带有彭博终端的金融交易室、跨学科健康与生命科学研究设施和创新工程中心。
学校投资5000多万英镑建设麦克雷图书馆，实现了传统图书馆与现代科技的充分融合。馆内配备计算机与多媒体设备、IT培训室、安静的学习区和小组工作区、咖啡厅、语言中心和各类书籍读物。
96%的在读中国学生对英国女王大学研究生院感到满意（2020/21年国际学生晴雨表）。
与英国其他大学城市相比，贝尔法斯特的物价最亲民；实际上，与伦敦相比，在贝尔法斯特生活可以节省近一半的开支。
房租、设施、食品花销的降低，意味着你能剩下更多的钱体验贝尔法斯特的独特文化。北爱尔兰也是英国最安全的地区（2014年英国犯罪调查）。
大学生活不仅仅是学习
学校有215多个学生俱乐部，包括国际社团，学生可以结交新朋友、培养新技能、在紧张的学习之余放松自己。
体育运动是英国女王大学校园生活的重要组成部分，学校有50多个体育俱乐部期待你的加入，每个人都可以找到自己喜欢的俱乐部。
如果你想参与一些竞技性不强的项目，欢迎报名参加体育教育中心（PEC）的活动，充分利用这里的先进设施进行休闲娱乐。
英国女王大学目前有150多个非竞技性俱乐部，如艺术俱乐部、极限飞盘俱乐部等。俱乐部由学生组织，热情期待各位新成员和新朋友的加入。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/campus-gallery:
过去十年里，英国女王大学在设施方面投资超过3.5亿英镑，包括癌症研究和细胞生物学中心、位于瑞德府（Riddel Hall）管理学院和的克林顿领导力研究中心。
在全球199所大学中，社会设施满意度排名第二位
名列英国十大最美高校

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/the-graduate-school:
助你在全球职场脱颖而出
在英国女王大学， “研究生”中的“研究”二字并不仅仅代表“本科之后的阶段”，还蕴藏着更具活力和挑战性的含义：要打破现有认知和类别的局限；重新定义并反思曾经的假设；探索具有颠覆性、灵活性和适应性的视角。简言之，就是要让学生拥有我们所说的“未来的思维方式”。
将研究生培养成 “未来的思想家”，意味着培养未来的思想者、沟通者、创新者和领导者。这就要求我们具备突出的专业水准并实现跨学科合作。英国女王大学与各大学术流派、科研机构以及研究生院之间建立了独特的合作关系，着力培养优秀学子成为“未来的思想家”。
学生在硕博深造的过程中可以得到专业领域的国际知名科研领头人的指导。同时，研究生院也为学生提供了一个世界一流的学术与社交中心，为各专业学生之间以及学生与校内外导师、领头人和用人单位之间架起沟通的桥梁。
研究生院为各专业学生以及学生与校内外导师、领头人和用人单位之间架起沟通的桥梁，着力培养 “未来的思想家”，培养面向未来的思想者、沟通者、创新者和领导者。
研究生院为不同学习生活经历的新生提供跨学科的学术挑战、个人效能和技能发展；培养一种抓住机遇、勇于创新和开拓进取的文化氛围，构建丰富、多样而包容的社会群体。
简言之，英国女王大学的研究生教育体现的是一种全人教育模式，致力于让学生在竞争日益激烈的国际国内就业市场中脱颖而出。
研究生院设置专属的研究生中心，研究生中心十分重视学生的需求。中心位于精心修复的大学建筑内（前身为维多利亚图书馆），全面开放的空间内设有现代化高科技会议与小组学习室、安静的学习区和各类社交区，形成一个充满活力的学术交流与合作中心。
研究生院为学生与学生之间以及学生与导师、思想领头人和用人单位之间的沟通提供了一个学术与社交中心。英国女王大学通过与国内外企业、政府和志愿服务部门的领导人合作，为学生构建指导关系和人脉网，此外，学校还与其他研究生院建立了国际合作关系。
在这里，一个由创新思想者和世界变革者组成的群体，正在携手共创美好未来。在这里，物理学家与语言学者共同培养领导能力；在这里，医学工作者联合创意艺术家，向普通观众展示科研成果；在这里，工程师们借助哲学视角来应对全球挑战。
高质量、跨学科的培养和发展项目，确保我们的学子在竞争日益激烈的国内外就业市场中能脱颖而出。我们精心创造条件，让学生用知识武装自己，以从容应对挑战；让学生提高自信心，提升专业技能，以实现就业优势，进而最终将学生培养成为未来的领导者。
研究生院

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/famous-alumni:
作为全英第九古老的大学，英国女王大学历史悠久，人才辈出，毕业生中不乏杰出的领袖人物、思想家和成功者。自1845年建校以来，这些校友为创造更美好的世界不断地贡献力量。学校已向以下访问、就读和任教于本校的人士授予荣誉博士学位。
比尔·克林顿 （Bill Clinton）是北爱尔兰和平进程的主要推动者，也是促成各方在1998年4月达成和平协议的核心人物。他于2001年获得女王大学的荣誉学位。2018年，他参加了女王大学的“构建和平”活动，纪念《贝尔法斯特协议》签署二十周年。
托尼·布莱尔（Tony Blair）于1997年至2007年担任英国首相。他协助《贝尔法斯特协议》的谈判活动，在北爱尔兰和平进程中发挥了重要作用。2018年，他与美国前总统比尔·克林顿和前参议员乔治J·米切尔（George J.
Mitchell）在女王大学共同参加了纪念了《贝尔法斯特协议》签署二十周年的活动。
温斯顿·丘吉尔爵士（Sir Winston Churchill）于1940年至1945年担任英国首相，并领导英国取得了二战的胜利。他同时也是一名作家、军事家和画家。1926年， 时任财政大臣的丘吉尔访问了女王大学，并获得了荣誉学位，还有一顶新帽子。
Image Credit: Yousuf Karsh/Camera Press
谢默斯·希尼（Seamus Heaney）是世界闻名的爱尔兰诗人、剧作家、翻译家和演讲家。他于1961年取得女王大学的英语文学学士学位，曾担任女王大学的现代英国文学课程讲师。
约翰·斯图尔特·贝尔（John Stewart Bell） 是“贝尔定理”或“贝尔不等式”的提出者。作为英国物理学会评出的20世纪十大物理学家之一，贝尔在一些科学家心中的地位等同牛顿和爱因斯坦。
巴伦·特姆布尔（Baron Trimble）曾任北爱尔兰首席部长和北爱尔兰统一党领导人。1998年10月，他与约翰·休姆（John Hume）荣获诺贝尔和平奖，以表彰他们为和平解决爱尔兰冲突做出的贡献。特姆布尔曾在女王大学学习法律并获得一等荣誉学位和McKane 法学奖章。
玛丽·麦卡利斯（Mary McAleese）1973年毕业于女王大学并取得法学学位。她于1974年被邀请到北爱尔兰律师协会任职，主攻刑法和家庭法 ；之后又成为了爱尔兰第八任总统（任期：1997-2011）。她是爱尔兰的第二位女性总统，也是第一位来自北爱尔兰的总统。麦卡利斯现在仍是爱尔兰律师协会的成员。.
玛丽·罗宾逊（Mary Robinson）是爱尔兰的第七任总统，也是担任该职位的第一名女性。她于1997年至2002年担任联合国人权事务高级专员，并于2018年在参议员乔治J·米切尔（George J.
Mitchell）就职典礼上发表和平演讲。
詹姆斯·弗朗西斯·潘特里奇（ames Francis Pantridge）教授是一名医生及心脏病学家。他发明的便携式除颤器改变了急诊医学和急救服务。1969年，他被授予圣约翰勋章（OStJ）和大英帝国勋章（CBE）。
梅尔·奥尼尔（Máire O’Neill）1999年毕业于女王大学并取得工程学硕士学位，是公认的欧洲顶级密码学专家，并于2014年荣获英国皇家工程院银质奖章，同年获奖者仅有五人。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/partnerships-and-reputation:
自19世纪50年代起，英国女王大学便与中国建立了联系，并在数十年间，致力于发展战略伙伴关系。
过去十年间，英国女王大学已在中国相关研究方面投资超过1000万美元，涵盖可持续能源、信息技术、食品安全和癌症研究等领域。在英国女王大学学习2600名国际学生中有1200多名中国学生，形成充满活力的中国学生社区。
2014年，英国女王大学与中国医科大学创办了联合学院。 中国医科大学是中国最重要的医科大学之一，联合学院经中国教育部批准成立，根据《英国高等教育质量保证体系标准》颁发英国女王大学学位。
联合学院位于辽宁省沈阳市中国医科大学的沈北新校区内，配备高质量的教学和研究设施，并授予学位。联合学院允许中国学生在国内攻读英国本科制药科学和制药生物技术学位。目前联合学院招录了250名学生，预计到2019年这一数字将增加至500名。
英国女王大学于1997年与中国深圳大学建立了教育合作伙伴关系，是本校迄今为止存续时间最长的合作伙伴关系。这段具有远见的伙伴关系助力培养下一代学生成为世界级的全球学者，鼓励跨学科国际化。
自深大联合预科课程招生以来，共有1000多名学生在深圳注册报读，其中600多名学生已升读英国女王大学，完成了工程学、计算机科学、建筑学、金融学、经济学、商业管理和心理学等专业的学业并取得学位。
通过与伙伴院校协同合作，英国女王大学希望帮助下一代学生成长为世界一流的全球学者。
英国工程与自然科学研究理事会与中国国家自然科学基金委员会（EPSRC-NSFC）共同资助关于电动汽车和智能电网的iGIVE项目。
该项目旨在开发具有智能电网接口的汽车生态充电（iGIVE）系统，为电动汽车充电提供更好的电网解决方案。这个项目是由英国女王大学与哈尔滨工业大学、中国国家电网有限公司、上海市电力公司和克兰菲尔德大学的研究型合作项目。
战略联盟和联合实验室协助了多项重点项目。
这些项目包括2010年上海世博会上展出的自动轮椅、中国奥运会体育场“鸟巢”和杭州湾跨海大桥的建设工作。
注重于中英两国一些重大项目的研究合作
中英科学桥合作项目旨在通过专门技术转让以加速利用中英两国之间的科研知识和联系。
英国女王大学的科学桥项目见证了五所中英联合实验室和一家联合研究中心的成立，还见证了200多篇联合科研论文的发表，六项奖项，七个联合项目的诞生和50多位师生的交流。
英国女王大学与中国重点工科大学进行了重大合作
以贝尔法斯特英国女王大学为首的英国罗素大学集团成员和中国排名前九位的工科大学建立了合作伙伴关系，旨在围绕研究与教育开展重大合作。
中英工程联盟

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/timeline:
籍此良机，我们盛意邀请各位同学和家长，一起品味英国女王大学175年流金岁月，重温这段悠长历史中的荣耀篇章！
《爱尔兰大学法令》推动了贝尔法斯特女王学院的建立，并获得皇家宪章，被以维多利亚女王为代表的执政政府正式批准认可
当代著名建筑师 Charles Lanyon 担任学院建设的重任.
维多利亚女王和阿尔伯特亲王参观了即将完工的女王学院大楼，即现在的主楼Lanyon楼-蓝侬楼，并为之揭幕
三个“元老级”学部成立：艺术、医学和法律.
12月20日，贝尔法斯特女王学院正式招生开学。当时总共有90名学生和20名教授。
贝尔法斯特女王学院获得第二份皇家宪章的批准认可
首次招收女学生
大学宪章获得批准，正式成立英国女王大学
Thomas Brock爵士设计的战争纪念碑竣工
John MacGeagh和Edward Maufe共同设计了Whitla Hall大楼（1949年完工）
在英国女王伊丽莎白二世加冕典礼后不久，她与菲利普亲王一起访问了英国女王大学
© The Belfast Telegraph
Peter Rice从Queen's毕业，后来成为全球性杰出的结构工程师
大学聘请了第一位女教授Kmt Atkinson，担任古代历史课程教授
校友 John Stewart Bell发表了著名的贝尔定理（1948年毕业）
John Stewart Bell
Queen's体育中心成立 (右图为2007年翻新后的成果）
英国女王大学代表赢得了大学挑战赛冠军（BBC举办的学术性智力竞赛电视节目）
Lanyon大楼 接待中心成立
Queen's的教授Seamus Heaney荣获诺贝尔文学奖
Queen's的教授David Trimble和John Hume一起获得了诺贝尔和平奖
美国总统克林顿获英国女王大学法学博士荣誉学位
Bill Clinton
Pio Fedi创作的伽利略雕像在黑白厅中揭幕
Queen's声波艺术中心由著名作曲家Karlheinz Stockhausen揭幕成立
Inside the Sonic Arts Centre
Seamus Heaney 诗歌中心成立
英国第一间农业食品和土地利用研究所在Queen's成立。国际实验物理研究中心（IRCEP）成立
英国女王大学正式加入罗素集团（英国顶尖大学联盟）
Queen's讲师Maire O’Neil博士被评为年度英国女发明家
Professor Máire O’Neill
麦克莱图书馆 McClay Library建成
全球粮食安全研究所（The Institute for Global Food Security）成立
Queen's研究生院翻新完成，屡获建筑学奖项殊荣，成为全英第一的研究生院
查尔斯王子到访Queen's，参观了解电子、通信和信息技术研究所
英国女王大学入选英国最美校园前10名
英国女王大学发表社会宪章，为面对当今全球性挑战而发力！
哈里王子和梅根王妃到访
美国前总统Bill Clinton和英国前首相Tony Blair共同出席《贝尔法斯特和平协议》20周年纪念活动
英国女王大学中国官方校友会正式成立
英国女王大学第七次荣获女王周年奖，这是英国皇家为高等教育学府颁发的最高奖项之一（图颁奖典礼在2020年举行）
从2020年1月起，希拉里·克林顿正式担任英国女王大学第11任名誉校长，亦是首位女性担任此职
Hillary Clinton
在新一年，英国女王大学 期待着与更多的学生相识相知 共同见证与谱写更加辉煌历史

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/courses:
英国女王大学是一所世界一流的大学，结合了卓越的学术水平和对就业能力的重视，使我们的毕业生在全球就业市场中占据优势
我们提供超过400门课程。以下是受中国学生欢迎的课程列表
你也可以 查看所有课程 .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/into-progression-courses:
INTO中心与英国贝尔法斯特女王大学携手合作，帮你做好充准备，以便顺利完成女王大学的学业。
雄厚的师资力量、现代化的教学设施，打造专业的学习体验。INTO学员自进入中心的第一天起，就是英国女王大学的正式成员，在校园的核心潜心学习。
中文网址链接
下载手册
国际预科课程
国际大学预科课程工程与科学方向（International Foundation in Engineering and Science）
国际大学预科课程建筑学方向（International Foundation in Architecture）
国际大学预科课程商务、人文和社会科学方向（International Foundation in Business, Humanities and Social Sciences）
国际大学一年级课程
国际大学一年级管理与金融方向
国际大一课程工程学方向
国际大一课程会计方向（International Year One in Accounting）
本科学位与国际大一课程
本科学位配国际大学一年级课程(Undergraduate Degree with International Year One)
硕士文凭课程
硕士文凭课程管理方向（Graduate Diploma in Management）
硕士文凭课程金融方向（Graduate Diploma in Finance）
硕士文凭课程社会科学方向（Graduate Diploma in Social Sciences）
英语语言课程
学术英语课程(Academic English)
预备英语课程(Pre-sessional English)
INTO中心位于校园内，设施齐全，拥有现代化的教学场地和有亲和力的教辅团队。
同时，INTO中心还拥有经验丰富的教师团队，帮助国际生提高英语水平，适应留学生活，顺利完成学业，一路向前。
贝尔法斯特英国女王大学INTO 中心
INTO 中心已助力成千上万的国际学生出国留学并完成学术梦想。我们相信在这方面没有人做得比我们更好。
立即申请2023年的课程
英国女王大学INTO中心的学习申请流程较为简易，具体如下：
七步简单的申请步骤
在这里填写网上申请表格，注明所选课程和大学，网址：intostudy.com/en-gb/apply
你将收到一封确认邮件，告知你我们已经收到了你的申请。
你将在两个工作日内收到我们的注册服务团队成员的回复。
你将需要提供以下证明文件： 一份护照复印件 一份最新成绩单（或在读生期中考试报告）复印件 一份英语语言能力证书，比如雅思考试成绩
你将收到录取通知书，以及有关学费和住宿押金的信息。
一旦学费缴纳完毕，我们将向你发送签证申请文件。
7.
申请签证。如果你有任何关于签证的问题，请与我们联系，我们的支持团队愿随时提供协助
学期内英语课程旨在充分挖掘学生的学科潜能，帮助学生在学科学习中使用英语语言进行高效的沟通交流。
目前，INTO中心提供四种不同授课风格和工作坊类型的课程，包括阅读、写作、听力和口语。
英国贝尔法斯特女王大学INTO中心提供金融学、管理学和社会科学等一系列专业课程以及英语语言课程，为国际生将来进入女王大学深造做好充分准备。
INTO中心位于女王大学校园内，中心学员享用校园内的一切设施，并由经验丰富、有资质的教学人员以最高标准授课。同时， INTO学生服务团队还为在校生在求学期间提供各方面的帮助。
本课程为时间短、 强度高、专业性强的英语课程。适合已具备学术资质并准备攻读女王大学研究生学位的学生。敬请留意：其他比所列课程要求更高的课程，其入学时英语要求也相应更高。
旨在为没有直接入学资格的国际生提供就读英国贝尔法斯特女王大学部分硕士课程的机会。三种硕士文凭可供选择：

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/scholarships:
英国女王大学诚挚欢迎全球学子来我校学习，实现自己的远大理想。
英国女王大学是世界一流的罗素大学集团的成员之一，在此求学自然花费不菲。为此，学校特设立一批国际奖学金，助力各位莘莘学子的求学之旅。
女王商学院中国专属奖学金
特殊情况除外。如需了解所有国际奖学金的详情并打算申请奖学金，敬请访问： https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships/china/ ，或发送邮件查询： internationalscholarships@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/applying-to-queens:
一般情况下，申请人通过英国大学和学院招生服务中心（UCAS）递交英国女王大学全日制本科学位课程的入学申请。
国际学生通过UCAS递交入学申请的截止日期为2024年6月30日，如申请医学与牙科专业，截止日期为2023年10月16日。在线申请网址： www.ucas.com 。
英国女王大学全日制本科学位课程入学申请必须通过英国大学和学院招生服务中心（UCAS）递交。可通过所在学校或英国文化教育协会了解具体的申请流程。 UCAS提供网络申请平台 。请注意，英国女王大学的UCAS代码为QBELF，编号为Q75。
《直接入学申请表》仅供直接且唯一申请入学英国女王大学的国际申请人使用，或正式递交UCAS申请表前被要求提前提供相关信息的申请人使用。敬请留意：《直接入学申请表》不得用于申请医学或牙科专业。
如申请人已通过UCAS递交了英国女王大学或其他英国院校的申请，请在递交《直接入学申请表》后及时与英国女王大学招生处联系。
点击下载《英国女王大学直接入学申请表》
现阶段，英国女王大学INTO中心学生如需申请升读英国女王大学，可直接递交《直接入学申请表》。
申请人通过 研究生入学申请门户网站 递交各专业研究生课程入学申请。
课程查询
当你在本指南中发现自己心仪的课程时，敬请访问本校网站 “课程查询系统”（ qub.ac.uk/courses ）以获取详情。
了解入学要求和日期
请核对你是否符合或预计符合所选课程的条件，以及是否满足英语语言入学要求（如果适用的话）。
请核对入学申请的截止日期。虽然我们大多数授课型研究生课程没有申请截止日期，但不排除例外。
衡量费用
如需了解研究生资助机会，请点击研究生学院网页（go.qub.ac.uk/graduate-school）或者心仪课程的所在学院网页（ qub.ac.uk/schools ）。
我们可能向你收取学费定金。
申请
请进入我们的网上研究生申请入口（ go.qub.ac.uk/pgapply ）并按照分步说明进行申请。
录取结果
我们做出录取决定时，会向你发送电子邮件通知，届时你可以登录研究生申请入口来查看录取结果。你还将收到一封邮寄信函。
学校录取确认书（CAS）
你会收到无条件录取通知书，请通直接申请入口确认学位。
当你在本指南中发现自己心仪的课程时，敬请访问本校网站 “课程查询系统”（ qub.ac.uk/courses ）以获取详情，或登录具体的学院网页（ qub.ac.uk/schools ），查看该学院的研究人员及其简介。
联系导师
如果你对某个特定项目感兴趣，建议你在申请之前联系相关学者，介绍自己并提出问题。
如果你有自己的研究想法，请联系我们相关学院进行商讨。如果你不确定要联系谁，可以向我们的教员中心*（Faculty Hubs*）发送邮件以获得相关指引。不过你可能需要提供一份简短的方案概述，这有助于我们为你识别潜在的导师。
了解要求
此外，如果你打算申请资助，请留意申请截止时间。因此，敬请留意你所选的课程是否也有申请截止时间。
如需了解研究生资助机会，请点击研究生学院网页（ go.qub.ac.uk/graduate-school ）或者自己心仪课程的所在学院网页（ qub.ac.uk/schools ）。
签证要求
申请英国学生签证，并附上学校录取确认书（CAS）编码。英国女王大学将通过英国签证与移民局（UKVI）系统为你分配CAS编码。
*艺术、人文与社会科学学部的邮箱 askahss@qub.ac.uk
工程与物质科学学部的邮箱： askeps@qub.ac.uk
医学、健康与生命科学学部的邮箱： askmhls@qub.ac.uk
如果被本校录取，必须提供学术资格证明原件，例如学位授予证书（以及英语语言资格证书，和/或经认证的英语翻译证明，如有需要）
请注意：本校不接受扫描件/复制件/照片证明。
注册时你还需要携带经照相确认的身份证件（现行的英国/欧盟护照，欧盟国家身份证，或在英国或爱尔兰颁发的驾照）。国际学生需提供护照和签证信息。有关入学及注册的详情，请参阅欢迎指南（Welcome Guide）。
如需查找更多内容，请点击 go.qub.ac.uk/pgapply 。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/webinars:
标题
领域
链接

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/our-academics:
School of Law, The Senator George J Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice, Centre for Evidence and Social Innovation (CESI)
School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics, The Senator George J Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice
School of Mathematics and Physics, Astrophysics Research Centre
Dr Katy Hayward is a sought-after expert on Brexit, the Irish border and the peace process, and a leading political sociologist on the island of Ireland.
School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, ECIT
Precision Medicine Centre of Excellence

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/cqc-progression-courses:
女王大学长久以来一直热烈欢迎中国学子来到贝尔法斯特求学。北爱尔兰的中国社群有着丰富的文化融合历史，而女王大学的国际化校园社区也拥有热情友好、文化多元和安全无虑的校园环境。中英联合学院（CQC）的毕业生有很多机会来到贝尔法斯特在女王大学进修研究生课程。女王大学还在中英联合学院的最后一学年开展了短期学生交流项目，以便沈阳的学生能够到 女王大学获得全面的学习体验。
工业制药学理学硕士
新设的工业制药学理学硕士项目将为毕业生提供在行业内就业所需的专业知识和技能，该行业估值约为1.2万亿美元。
我们的药学院是英国领先的药学和制药科学研究中心之一。研究重点是利用在制药科学和实践方面的专业知识，让患者病情得到真正的改善。女王大学药学院拥有一个充满活力的世界级研究员群体，他们致力于改善当地和国际患者的卫生保健情况。
研究课题
分子生物学与生物技术理学硕士 该硕士学位旨在教授支撑生物技术的基础分子生物科学及其当前应用的实例。
肿瘤药物发现理学硕士 肿瘤药物发现理学硕士课程传授学术和生物技术研究知识，促进21 世纪医疗保健发展。
实验医学理学硕士 （科研型） 实验医学硕士课程提供高级研究培训，广泛涵盖实验 室生物医学科学知识。/p>
癌症医学理学硕士 癌症医学理学硕士（科研型） 提供丰富的多学科经验，呈 现精准医学如何改善和塑造 未来的癌症治疗方法。
英国女王大学的医学、健康与生 命科学学部以其卓越的研究而闻 名，全英大学科研力度排名前十。
医学、牙科和生物医学科学学院努力在疾病机制方面取得科学突破，解决医疗保健领域的重大全球挑战，并将其转化为创新疗法和预防性干预措施， 从而改善患者的治疗效果。
我们追求卓越研究和影响力，为医疗保健领域的特定挑战提供创新解决方案。中国医科大学－贝尔法斯特女王大学联合学院的 毕业生有资格申请以下医学和健康科学相关的研究项目。
癌症研究和细胞生物学
科研型硕士研究项目有：
实验医学
张枫语 纳米医学和生物治疗学（抗癌治疗）
王璐 药学博士生
立即申请

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/facilities:
英国女王大学金融交易室提供了一个具有互动性和令人兴奋的学习环境，学生将得以将教科书中的理论付诸于实践。在这里，学生们可以访问彭博终端(Bloomberg Terminal)——金融资讯、数据和分析领域的市场领导者，被许多金融机构所使用。此外，学生将在交易室中使用到各类软件，例如Stata、Excel、Matlab等软件，以及多种数据库，如Thomson One Banker、DataStream和Bloomberg等。
学生有机会加入英国女王大学学生管理基金会。该社团由学生成员组织运营。在商学院导师指导下，社团成员有机会使用高达50,000英镑的真实资金进行投资决策，获得货真价实的分析师体验。英国女王大学是英国和爱尔兰少数几所为学生提供这类宝贵实战经验的大学之一，助学生提升就业能力。
实习办公室（就业指导中心）为学生提供就业指导资源。过去的几十年里，它一直与众多雇主密切合作，为学生提供实习和咨询项目机会。实习办公室将如何帮助你：
位于瑞德府（Riddel Hall）的克林顿领导力研究中心拥有世界一流的设施、领先的学术水平和行业专家，为学生提供高管教育和领导力项目的高端课程组合。作为高管教育专家，我们与最高水平的商务人士及相关组织保持着密切来往。
关注@英国女王大学商学院 官方微博，获取专业课程信息、与讲师和在校学生互动、了解更多学院最新动态。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/applying-to-queens/entry-requirements:
下面小编为大家总结你们最关心的入学要求
以下为直接入读本科课程的资格要求：
敬请注意: 成绩要求根据报读的课程而有所不同。更多有关各学位课程入学要求的信息，请登录本科课程查询系统。
入读研究生文凭或授课型硕士学位课程的学生通常要先取得英国二等一级（2:1）或二等二级（2:2）本科学位。大多数专业的招生时会考虑学生学士学位的主修专业和学习内容。想要了解详细的入学要求，请登录我们的课程查询系统。
中国的申请人要求在排名靠前的正规高校中完成四年制学士学位，且表现优秀，平均成绩水平至少70-85%。
一级：名牌/重点大学（双一流大学及世界大学学术排名前100）。二级：其他正规高校以及附属于一级高校的独立院校（由女王大学认定）。三级：教育部承认的其他独立院校和继续教育院校。
提交入学申请时，请确保上传所有课程的正式成绩单，包括已完成的课程和进行中的课程。已完成课程的最终的学士学位证书和毕业证书也需要提交。
申请人需上传学历证书的官方英语翻译件，例如，由授予其学位的该大学/机构签发的官方翻译件（签名且盖章）。
我们也接受由中国高等教育学生信息网（学信网）颁发的电子版英文版学位证书，成绩单和学历证书。请访问该网站 https://www.chsi.com.cn/en/service/ 查阅详情。 该项服务需付费。
未达到录取通知书要求成绩的学生，仍有机会入读女王大学。许多授课型研究生课程通常会录取最终平均成绩低于正式录取通知书要求的中国本科毕业生，这种情况要求学生成绩不得低于标准的2%，且主要模块的成绩也需达到合理的水平。
如果申请人的最终成绩低于标准2%以上，我们有时会进行灵活的考量。这种情况下，决定权在录取官手里。
完成本科学位后，请将下列文件的复件发送到intl.student@qub.ac.uk，以确认您的申请资格和总体成绩：
只有收到以上文件我们才能确认您的录取资格。
如果您对计算机、金融学和管理学课程感兴趣，但未达到相应入学水平，可以考虑先就读INTO中心的硕士预科课程。.
有意攻读女王大学博士学位的学生，需要先完成正规高效的学士学位和硕士学位课程并取得优秀的成绩，还要有高价值的研究提案。点击此处了解更多研究型研究生课程信息。
母语非英语的申请人需要提供语言能力认可水平证明。另外，非欧洲经济区的申请人必须满足英国签证与移民局（UKVI）的签证类英语语言要求。申请人应提供安全英语语言测试（SELT）证明，通常是UKVI签证类雅思考试，或者是英国女王大学认可的测试听说读写四种语言学习能力的其他英语语言资格。
英国女王大学每门课程的英语语言要求体现为雅思学术考试成绩。所列出来的雅思成绩是最低的总成绩要求。通常情况下，各单项（听说读写）测试的最低成绩为5.5分。不过，对于部分课程，必要的单项测试成绩要求可能更高。
申请人通常需要满足最低的英语语言能力水平，即等同雅思总成绩6.0分或托福成绩80分（机考）。然而，很多课程会有更高的要求。请注意，雅思考试的各单项测试必须达到最低的分数要求。请点击此处，了解具体的课程要求。
有关英国女王大学可能认可的其他英语语言资格详情，请点击go.qub.
ac.uk/EnglishLanguageReqs
英国女王大学INTO中心——大学预科英语语言课程
英国女王大学INTO中心开设广泛的英语语言课程，旨在帮助学生达到要求的英语语言标准，有资格升读英国女王大学的学位课程。
查看课程 >
符合女王大学相应本科课程的标准英语入学要求
2019年本科课程列表以及入学成绩和英语要求：请在公众号对话栏输入“本科要求”获取
英国女王大学欢迎持有国际预科(IB）文凭的学生申请入读本校。 录取通知书通常会以学生成功完成IB课程为前提条件，除总成绩（一般是29-37分之间）外，还包括三门高水平课程（其成绩在6,6,6-5,5,5之间）。此外，拓展性论文和知识理论的分数也可纳入总成绩。
下表是英国女王大学的IB文凭入学要求与英国A-Level入学要求的对照。我们也对相关高水平课程的具体成绩有所要求。请登录本校官网的课程查询系统（Course Finder）查询各课程的A-level成绩要求和具体科目要求。
敬请留意，由于某些情形下可能存在的变数，以下成绩要求仅供参考。
申请人还应持有适当水平的英语语言资格证书。英语（教学大纲A）成绩为标准水平的4分或高水平的4分，即可满足本校大多数课程的英语语言能力入学要求。英语（教学大纲B）成绩为标准水平的5分或高水平的4分也符合要求。但需留意的是，英语语言能力要求可能会根据申请课程的类型而有所不同。请登录本校官网的课程查询系统（Course Finder），了解相关课程的英语语言能力要求。
IB文凭不涉及英语学习的申请人需查询 其它本校认可的英语语言能力要求 。
数学标准水平和数学研究标准水平的成绩可取代GCSE数学成绩，具体要求为：/p>

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/applying-to-queens/fees-and-funding:
国际生的应缴学费以第一年注册入学为基准。本科生、授课型研究生和研究型研究生的学费详情如下。不适用标准费学费的例外情形将另行列出。
从2023-2024学年开始，国际学生的标准学费如下：
注意事项：
上述学费仅适用于2023/24学年。学费将根据年度通胀率进行调整。如需了解学费的计算方法，请浏览 qub.ac.uk/TuitionFees 。
除以上说明的、不适用于标准学费的例外情形之外，部分课程的学费也可能不同。有意报读本校的学生请登录go.qub.ac.uk/coursefinder，查询具体课程的费用和学费情况。
*如进行实习，则需要收取额外的专业实习费用
国际学生必须缴纳一年期授课型研究生课程的押金。详情将由招生与入学办公室具体沟通。
如学生成功申请签证，但没有选择接受英国女王大学的学位，则押金将不予退还。
学费支付有以下方式，学生可任选一种：
敬请留意，入学注册时应缴纳的25%学费不能退费。如需了解英国女王大学的《退学规定》详情，请访问qub.ac.uk/TuitionFees查阅“学生财务框架”。 qub.ac.uk/TuitionFees .
学生必须在入学注册时至少支付全额学费的25%，余款将通过“直接借记”计划支付。上述25%的学费不能退费。“直接借记”计划仅适用于已经在注册了“直接借记”计划的英国银行开通活期帐户的学生。
学生可以使用信用卡或借记卡，通过网上、现场或电话形式支付学费， 也可通过支票或银行转账支付。
部分课程会要求学生购买仪器、设备或参加实地课程。相关费用均不包含在学费内。如需了解课程的额外费用，可访问go.qub.ac.uk/coursefinder。
学生帮助热线：+44 (0)28 9097 3223
电子邮箱： studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
或访问 qub.ac.uk/TuitionFees 获取更多信息

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/professors:
英国女王大学商学院拥有一支优秀的教学与科研队伍。这里有优秀的教授与学术工作者团队，致力于为学生提供高质量的教学内容，助学生拥有最佳校园体验。
Bibek 的研究领域包括企业资本结构、借贷成本、Covid-19 期间的企业适应以及文本分析。
Mark 从事精算科学和保险科技研究。他教授精算统计、精算研究方法、精算建模、企业风险管理和风险分析。
Philip 是一位金融经济学家，对银行业、公司金融、公司治理和金融史感兴趣。 他结合财务数据和档案证据研究企业决策的演变。 此外，他的研究还回答了有关股息稳定性、投资和资本结构调整的当代问题。
Ruth 的主要研究兴趣广泛涉及工作和就业，着重关注身份、合法性和制度变迁。
Kieran 的研究涉及全球战略和国际管理的交叉点。 他有兴趣了解跨国公司的企业战略和全球领导力的演变。 这包括总部与子公司的关系、全球流动性、知识协调和全球人力资本。 他教授全球战略、国际管理和国际人力资源管理。
管理硕士课程非常适合没有商业背景但想通过学习管理拓宽职业领域的学生。我们将通过一系列创新的教学方式加强与企业的合作，让学生在实践中理解。
Mark 的研究领域是工业市场、技术、政策和组织战略交汇中的机构运作。Mark 目前正在研究市场或技术突破的早期环境，以实现净零途径过渡。
Byron 擅长利用数据为企业和公共部门提供可行的见解。从技术角度看，这涉及数据科学和大数据分析领域，包括机器学习和其他统计模型的应用、自然语言处理和高级数据可视化。Byron 的教学兴趣集中在从技术和管理角度进行商业分析，以及统计学和研究方法。
Yerzhan 的研究重点是公司财务和治理问题，如并购、撤资、多元化和股东投票。他为本科生讲授股票估值课程，并为研究生讲授公司财务课程。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/careers:
英国女王大学商学院在会计、经济、金融和管理方面提供世界一流的本科、研究生和高管教育课程。
作为全球知名的高影响力学术与政策研究中心，英国女王大学商学院一直与众多雇主保持密切联系。商学院的专属实习办公室与金融交易室，也能让学生拥有更加丰富的学习体验。
为协助学生获得职业生涯上的成功，英国女王大学还为学生提供许多就业资源与支持服务：
MyFuture是英国女王大学学生专享的在线职业管理工具。你可以用它来搜索和申请校内外工作、预约制定职业提升计划、注册参加就业活动、获得一对一就业支持等。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/alumni:
英国女王大学商学院的毕业生不断在英国、爱尔兰和国际上的商业领域内做出积极贡献。部分校友在完成相关学业以后，选择继续深造，他们从事前沿研究，培养新思想，发展新目标。
我校商学院毕业生在完成学位课程后的 6 个月内非常成功地获得工作或继续深造的机会。许多校友在毕业后进入世界知名企业任职。
英国女王大学强大的校友社交网络，让你在毕业后，依然能与来自全球120多个国家/地区的超过140,000的校友们保持互动，整合资源，拓宽人脉。作为女王大学的校友，您将终生受益。
我是来自湖南省的刘望晨。我结交了许多来自英国和世界各地的朋友。我希望我的经历能帮助你深入了解英国女王大学的学习和生活。
我是来自深圳的贾海若。我从妈妈那里听说了英国女王大学，因为她在贝尔法斯特工作了 13 年。女王大学的工作人员真的很照顾海外学生，他们还提供接机服务。
我是来自广东省的曹芝烨。我之所以选择在英国女王大学学习，是因为其排名靠前、教学质量高、校园优美、城市环境好、生活成本低。我的课程还涵盖了CFA (特许金融分析师)考试内容。
我是来自广州市的刘梅。我坚信我在女王大学的学习经历能使我受益终生。毕业后，我计划回到中国，继续在教育行业内发展。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/tradingroom:
英国女王大学的金融交易室复刻了纽约和伦敦的交易所环境。学生拥有使用12个彭博终端、交易模拟和其他金融软件的访问权限。
相关课程的教学活动将在交易室进行。学生能将现实世界的新闻和市场活动与经济和金融理论联系起来。此外，交易室也将为 特许金融分析师研究挑战赛（CFA Research Challenge）以及女王大学学生管理基金会（Queen’s Student Managed Fund）等课外活动提供至关重要的支持。
英国女王大学学生管理基金会 (QSMF) 为学生提供管理和运营真实货币投资组合的机会。学生目前管理的资金约为50,000 英镑。
该基金的主要目的是培养技能、提供实践经验并增加就业机会。通过金融交易室，学生将在教师监督委员会的指导下做出相关投资决策。
女王大学是为数不多的为学生提供这种体验的英国和爱尔兰大学之一，使学生在全球就业市场上更具竞争优势。作为一个基金，我们以负责任的方式对下行风险进行最佳管理，力求实现持续的长期正回报。
基金会设有不同岗位，在为拥有不同经验水平的学生提供了发展机会的同时，也为基金的进步创造了条件。积极参与基金会事务的成员将更具市场竞争力。部分校友在毕业后，进入了贝莱德（Blackrock）、高盛（Goldman Sachs ）、罗斯柴尔德银行（Rothschild & Co）、摩根士丹利（Morgan Stanley）和海纳创投基金（SIG） 等企业就职。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/tap:
想要进一步了解在英国女王大学的学习生活？您可以尝试直接与我校在读生展开对话。此外您还可以在下方页面中：

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/business/contact:
我们将为您提供与您的课程、即将举行的线上研讨会、奖学金机会（价值3000英镑）和英国女王大学留学生活相关的信息。
所有数据均由大学依据《通用数据保护条例》持有与处理。大学不会向任何第三方披露或出售您的任何个人数据。关于您的个人数据是如何被存储与使用的信息，请参阅我们的相关 法律页面 或我们的 学生隐私声明 .
访问我们的微博、小红书获取留学资讯，欢迎扫描微信二维码，添加女王大学工作人员了解更多关于商学院的最新信息和贝尓法斯特生活。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/belfast/getting-here:
贝尔法斯特是英国北爱尔兰的首府。
从贝尔法斯特乘飞机到英国的各大主要城市，只需不到一个小时，驾车到都柏林只需不到两小时。公共交通网络十分完善，包括火车和公交。
从北爱尔兰机场可直飞世界各地74个目的地。
贝尔法斯特附近有两大机场：乔治·贝斯特贝尔法斯特城市机场和贝尔法斯特国际机场。都柏林国际机场位于南部约100英里（160公里）处。
新生到达机场后，学校可提供机场接机迎新服务。迎新团队将为新生提供重要的信息，并帮助新生安排好住宿事宜。
收拾行李去另一个国家学习和生活是一件多么让人激动的事啊！你心里肯定会冒出许多问题。那里的天气如何？我该穿什么去？带什么行李？

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/belfast/shopping:
贝尔法斯特是一座繁荣、时尚的城市，能满足不同层次和品味的消费需求。这里各类精品店、设计名师店、商业街店铺以及地方手工艺品和食品店林立。这可不是我们的一面之词，看看《孤独星球》的评价吧：”贝尔法斯特有一群引领城市潮流、充满活力的年轻人。“
这并不是我们的一面之词，《2022年英国完全大学指南》就指出，“贝尔法斯特是欧洲最时髦、最有活力和最实惠的城市之一，城市活力备受称赞，并且拥有丰富的文化和历史。英国女王大学的美丽校园位于贝尔法斯特的女王区，这里有咖啡厅、酒吧、餐馆，以及一流的购物和娱乐场所。”
贝尔法斯特市中心是时尚购物之程的最佳起点，从商业街的人气品牌飒拉、 芒果，到高端时尚品牌，这里可以满足各个层次的消费需求。时尚购物亮点区包括：
维多利亚广场是贝尔法斯特市中心一处优美的半露天购物区，也是贝尔法斯特时尚购物之旅不容错过的地方之一。这里有70多个国际国内品牌，如Hugo Boss, Calvin Klein, Guess, Ted Baker, All Saints, Hollister 和 MAC。众星捧月的角色当属数东方福来德，店铺内设7层百货，经营500多种品牌。科技爱好者也可以在这里找到苹果店。
这是一家走新千禧风格的精品店，坐落于惠灵顿街道。这里有芮欧百货店和法国设计师带来的时尚产品，这家店致力于将工艺优良却鲜为人知的时尚品牌引入贝尔法斯特市场。
皇家大道是穿越市中心的主路，起点为贝尔法斯特市政厅。想要购物，不妨先看看这里。皇家大道遍布商业街人气店铺，如普里马克和 H&M。周边街道还有更多的商业街、独立精品店、咖啡店和餐馆。
想要找奢侈品店和概念商店？那就去利斯本路吧！绿树成荫的利斯本路位于贝尔法斯特南部，就在女王大学校园旁边。如果你想花上一整天时间购物，那这里是最好的去处。道路两侧还有店铺、咖啡厅和餐馆，迎合各种口味。不容错过的店铺有：
安普里奥是贝尔法斯特最尊贵的精品店之一。这一风靡30多年的流行品牌藏有 28款国际珍品，包括阿曼尼、Caterina Lucchi、Oska。
又一家经典的时尚精品店。这里有卡伦·米伦、古驰等，也有普拉达和鲁布托鞋品，LV手包。
非常适合敢于尝试的时尚达人。这里有精品店专属的高端时尚系列。如果你追求T台设计效果，那这里就是你最佳的选择。
为什么不买点地方风格的手工艺品？在这座爱尔兰小岛上，精品手工艺品尤为出名，有阿兰针织品、贝尔法斯特亚麻布等。如果你希望买一些有地方特色的产品，那有几家店铺一定不能错过：
如果我告诉你，布莱克·莱弗利也是这家店的粉丝，那你肯定会认为这家店不错！这是爱尔兰最古老的店铺，以手工编织的高品质毛绒产品而著名。现在，在这家店铺也可以购买到一些小众品牌和爱尔兰风格的产品。
这是一家独立店铺，出售地方艺人制作的手工艺品和小礼品。在这里可以买到定制的艺术品、蜡烛和各类可爱的小礼品。
这是一家知名的室内市场，仅在周五、周六和周日开业。这里气氛活泼，再搭配背景音乐，为您带来‘十分愉悦的购物体验。这里也是你采购当地和自制美食及手工艺品的好去处。你可以边逛市场边品尝摊贩出售的美味小吃和饭菜。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/belfast/food:
附近的不少餐馆和商店还特别为学生提供折扣。入校后，校学生会会主动帮助新生适应校园生活。学生住宿区设有便利店，提供各类日常必需品。
亚洲行现搬迁至新址，是一家由家族经营30多年的超市。这家亚洲行也是北爱尔兰规模最大的，这里的食材品种齐全，应有尽有。无论是中国菜还是墨西哥菜，各种口味任您选择。亚洲行楼上设咖啡厅，方便随时补充能量，让您购物无忧！
利丰行是一家由家族经营的东方零售与批发超市，已有30多年历史。超市经营1000多种产品，提供品种丰富的各类东方食品、饮料以及中国、马来西亚、日本、韩国、台湾、印度、新加坡等远东地区的各类产品，包括各类冷冻/冷藏食品、零食、饮料、厨房烹饪和清洁用品。
孟加拉集市满足南亚、非洲和中东餐饮的烹饪需求。集市出售研磨香料、整块香料、混合香料以及豆蔻、孜然等常见调料，同时还提供东方特有的茴香籽、肉豆蔻粉、特辣辣椒粉、洋葱粉等。集市内鱼类水产丰富。如果你最爱的是南亚鱼类，这里一定会给你惊喜。巴沙鱼、鲥鱼、铠甲弓背鱼、野鲮、鲶鱼、鲳鱼、腾格拉鱼、罗非鱼——真是数不胜数！
圣乔治市场是一座大型室内市场，也是贝尔法斯特著名的地标建筑。市场设有各类摊点，出售新鲜食材，还有各类艺术工艺品。圣乔治市场因极富地方特色的农产品和环境氛围获得不少国家和地方称号及荣誉，是采购有机蔬果、鱼类肉类以及小吃零食的好去处。
这是一家美味的中餐馆。点心在中国无人不知、无人不爱，但在英国等西方国家，美味的的点心并不常见。这家距离校园仅几步之遥的餐馆，一定能够满足你对点心的渴望。
麒麟阁提供各类中餐菜肴，品种齐全、应有尽有，如香酥鸡、烤肋排、中式汤等。
爱吃火锅？那你一定要来这里。寒冬的冬季，火锅是人气美食，既驱寒又饱腹。其实，一年四季火锅都是不错的选择。店内提供丰富的菜品任您选择，是吃火锅的好去处。火锅底料甄选新鲜食材，您还可以根据自己的口味搭配猪鸡牛肉等。
餐厅主打泰国菜。如果你想换个口味，一定不要错过这家餐厅。最受欢迎的菜品包括汤面和泰式酸辣汤。要是你无辣不欢，一定要去尝一尝。
听雨轩汇聚了亚洲各地的美食，有日本的铁板烧、地道的中餐，还有大厨在您面前展示厨艺。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/belfast/a-professional-city:
贝尔法斯充满活力的年轻群体，确保了企业的蓬勃发展和繁荣兴旺。创新者和企业家可以在这里找到成功所需的支持资源和城市工作场所。这是一座以创新为核心的城市，科技发展渗透各行各业，推动提升这座城市的全球竞争力。
无处不在的风险投资者、天使投资人和私人投资者，促进高潜力的新兴企业的飞速发展。事实上，贝尔法斯特被评为英国十大适合数字行业发展的城市之一 （怪兽数字城市（Monster’s Digital Cities），2019）。 北爱尔兰有将近900家跨国企业，贝尔法斯特因此成为仅次于伦敦的最能吸引美国贸易的英国城市。贝尔法斯特还是欧洲外商直接投资策略最成功的十大小城之一（英国金融时报，欧洲未来的外商直接投资之城，2018）。泰坦尼克区（Titanic Quarter）是这座城市的经济和科技枢纽，拥有花旗银行、微软、国际商业机器公司和HBO电视网等国际企业 。 Catalyst Inc，原北爱尔兰科技园，入驻了200家科技创新前沿企业。全球闻名的女王大学信息技术安全中心也坐落于此，该中心过去三年为贝尔法斯特创造了1100个网络安全领域的新就业岗位。
北爱尔兰地区的学生生活成本是全英国最低的。事实上，学生们在贝尔法斯特的每月生活成本比在伦敦低300多英镑（2022年Which?学生预算计算器）。贝尔法斯特是英国范围内学生租金最低的地方，学生租金平均为每周90英镑（2020年NatWest学生生活指数）。学生电影票的平均价格为4.95英镑，而在女王电影院则只需4.5英镑，不到伦敦票价的一半。
贝尔法斯特是一座布局紧凑的城市，最适合以步行或骑行的方式游玩探索。广受欢迎的贝尔法斯特公共自行车租赁项目在城市各处都设置了自行车停车架。这里还有便捷的公共汽车和列车服务，学生可享受各种折扣。
漂亮的建筑、美术馆以及阿尔斯特博物馆（Ulster Museum）和泰坦尼克博物馆（Titanic Museum）等博物馆赋予了贝尔法斯特独特的个性。时尚的表演场地、快闪剧场和城市节庆等现代文化景观营造出了浓厚的音乐艺术氛围。女王大学位于城市中央，聚集了艺术家、诗人和音乐家的大教堂区（Cathedral Quarter）。校区附近餐馆林立，还有酒吧以及The MAC和Black Box等艺术场所。 这座城市的活力蕴藏在那些传奇夜店、手工咖啡馆、平民酒吧和铺满卵石街道中，而街头艺术、街头小吃和街边市集则为街道的每个角落增添魅力。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-success:
英国女王大学与中国有着紧密的联系，对此我们感到自豪。目前，学校拥有活跃的华人社群，由1000多名在校生和2000多名国内的校友组成。
中国学生不仅丰富了我们的校园文化，还为全球学术界、工业界和社会作出了巨大贡献。
英国女王大学的校友自建校以来一直在中国发挥着重大的影响力。1853年，年仅18岁的罗伯特·赫德爵士（Sir Robert Hart）从女王大学毕业。毕业后，赫德爵士被委派到中国担任晚清海关总税务司一职。他还助力晚清建立了邮政服务系统、灯塔、海军和气象站。
Zhiye Cao (Rory) 攻读的是金融专业理学硕士课程，目前在北京彭博社从事金融分析工作。
全文阅读>
刘王晨（音译），湖南人，毕业于深圳大学和英国女王大学联合预科班， 随后来到英国女王大学攻读并获得4年制金融学理学学士学位，然后获奖学金继续攻读国际MBA硕士学位。步入职场后，他成为了一家全球定量交易公司的大宗商品ETF交易员。
博洋于2010年进入英国女王大学化学与化学工程学院理论与应用催化中心攻读博士学位。
如今，博洋已实现夙愿，成为了位于加州硅谷“心脏“的世界名校——斯坦福大学的一员。
目前，博洋是斯坦福大学的博士后，在 “催化剂基因组”概念的创始人、知名学者延斯·K·诺斯科夫（Jens K Norskov）教授和托马斯·比加特（Thomas Bigaart）博士的指导下从事科研工作。
博洋的成功充分说明了英国女王大学扮演的重要角色——吸引并引导国际优秀学子走向成功之路。
博洋获得诸多奖项，包括霍奇金研究生奖学金。霍奇金研究生奖学金为英国女王大学等英国顶级科研机构输送了许多优秀学子。
博洋的博士论文被评为2013年化工科学领域最优秀的博士论文，因此获爱尔兰皇家科学院年度青年化学家奖。
北京化工大学和英国女王大学的教育合作项目，让如晨有机会在2011年通过北京化工大学进入英国女王大学学习。
女王大学高质量的教学，虚怀若谷、谆谆教诲的老师，给如晨留下了最深刻的印象。
如晨的毕业论文荣获一等奖，随后进入剑桥大学磁共振研究中心继续攻读博士学位。
"女王大学让我拥有开阔的国际视野，并决定投身中国葡萄酒产业的发展。" Julie Jia，管理学硕士 了解商务与管理课程
"女王大学让我拥有开阔的国际视野，并决定投身中国葡萄酒产业的发展。"
Julie Jia，管理学硕士
了解商务与管理课程

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-profile-mba:
2011年6月 结束了在英国女王大学•深圳大学联合 培训中心的课程
2011年9月到2015年6月 在英国女王大学取得金融学学士并实 习一年，毕业时获得了管理学院最佳 国际学生奖
2015年 在女王大学就读国际工商管理硕士并 获得了奖学金
行程从香港开始，从香港国际机场到伦 敦希思罗机场需要大约13个小时。
在伦敦停留片刻后，转乘了飞往贝尔法 斯特城市机场的飞机，飞行时间约1小 时。
到贝尔法斯特后，乘公交/出租车去往市 中心大约只需要10分钟。
直达航班
CONNECTING
*仅适用推荐航线
为了节省开销，我选择了自己租房。 房租约合每月200镑，并且包含电 费，水费和互联网。从住的地方去学 校步行也只需15分钟。
在贝尔法斯特生活了一段时间后，我逐 渐习惯了使用英镑。每个月的生活开销 可以控制到500镑左右。
购买肉类，蔬菜以及中国菜所需的佐料 都很方便。 我通常会去Tesco， 亚洲行（亚洲超 市）。有时也去一个本地的特产的市 场，St.
Georges市场，在那能买到新 鲜的海鲜。
1步行去学 校约15分 钟
租房每月 约200镑
研究生学院是一个知识聚集的中心。学 院鼓励并支持学习与社交活动，例如 研 究实践项目，专题辩论，跨学科研究， 创新以及创业等项目。 我参加了研究生 学院提供的4个论文写作能力的培训项 目，并且觉得受益匪浅。
第一学期从九月底开始，持续12周直 到在一月份考试。 第二学期则是从二 月初到五月，考试是在六月份。六月份 之后我们将开始写毕业论文或咨询项目 报告。
作为国际工商管理课程的一部分，我们 去了美丽的巨人之路参加企业咨询实 践，这样的经历加深了大家的友谊 － 我相信其中一些同学将会成为一生的朋 友！
企业咨询实践包 括了克林顿（William J Clinton）领导 力学院（女王大学管理学院的一部分） 安排的培训，并且讨论一系列的相关主 题，包括领导力，团队和团队建设，文 化意识以及MBTI性格差异分析。行程中 一些企业高层领导还和我们分享了他们 培养领导能力的经历。
我们有机会参加很多学校组织的知名人 物的讲座。前南非总统德克勒克和许多 本地以及国际公司的首席执行官和执行 董事都在管理学院做过演讲。
我们也有机会访问一些北爱尔兰的公 司，包括普华永道，北爱尔兰水务公司 等。
新生的社团展通常会在入学的第一周。 女王大学有超过200个俱乐部和社团可 供选择。我加入了中国学生和学者社 团，他们每年会组织很多活动。
我注册成为了女王大学体育中心的会 员。女王大学先进的体育设施曾经在 2012年被作为奥运会训练专用场所。我 同时还加入了跳伞俱乐部。
在欧迪恩(Odeon)电影院观影可获得 周一折扣，观看最新上映的电影只需要 4.25镑。女王大学也有自己的电影院， 播放来自世界各地的电影。
女王大学图书馆是以哈佛大学图书馆为 原型建造的。图书馆将广泛的书，计算 机和多媒体服务组合在同一个地点，将 传统图书馆的优点和最新的技术结合在 一起提供给学生 － 是考前深夜复习的 合适选择！
考试结束之后，我们有更多的时间来享 受中国春节。中国学生和学者社团花费 了大量时间准备春节晚会。我曾经在社 团的技术部，准备春节晚会，舞台背景 图片或背景动画都是我分内的工作。春 晚是一个非常值得参与的活动。
合伙人，2015年4月始 北爱尔兰，贝尔法斯特
⇛
标志高尔夫集团（Iconic Golf Group）为亚洲高净资产人士提供横 跨爱尔兰岛的定制高尔夫旅行服务。
大宗商品交易型开放式指数基金 （ETF）交易员，2016年6月始 爱尔兰，都柏林
海纳国际集团（Susquehanna International Group）是一家全球量 化交易金融公司，总部位于美国宾夕 法尼亚州。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-profile-finance:
我来自广东省，我是从我一个朋友那 儿了解到女王大学的，当时她也在申 请英国研究生，她拿到了女王大学的 offer然后分享并且推荐了给我。
我选择女王大学是经过了仔细考虑后 决定的，原因包括很高的排名，高的 教学质量，美丽的校园和城市风光， 高性价比，专业课程非常适合我并且 包含CFA考试内容，可以同时体会英 国和爱尔兰文化等等。
我的专业最 棒的一点是实践性教学，我们不仅仅 会有课堂上的授课，还会做实践性的 项目。比如老师会在金融交易室对我 们进行课外辅导，老师们都会用彭博 金融终端和其他交易软件帮助我们更 好地理解金融理论知识，让我们具备 更好地求职能力。
我最喜欢的地方是学校的研究生学 院，这里我可以更加高效地完成我的 学习和工作。研究生学院的环境非常 棒，据说是全世界排名第一的研究生 学院。 我还喜欢的另一个地方是学校 的健身房，学习和健身是我研究生阶 段最好的两个伙伴。我的每一天都感 到充实。
在女王大学有非常多难忘的记忆，其中 最难忘的之一是我和我的另外四个英国 队友还有导师一起代表大学赢得CFA全 球投资分析大赛爱尔兰地区冠军的那个 晚上。在都柏林，我们打败了其他强大 的大学竞争对手为女王大学赢得了第一 个冠军奖杯，然后我们晋级到了捷克首 都布拉格的欧洲决赛。这也是我第一次 站在国际舞台上与来自世界各地的对手 比赛。
我的硕士课程只有一年，所以没有包含 实习项目，但是我自己申请了暑期实 习，利用暑期时间到彭博公司北京和上 海办公室进行了暑期分析师与sales的实 习。申请这份实习来之不易，前后共经 历了9轮面试才拿到了offer，后来5周在 北京分析师部门实习，5周在上海销售 部门实习，一共完成了不同资产类别与 销售相关的7个项目，这段实习经历大 大地增加了我对金融市场的了解和彭博 产品的认识。实习结束，当我飞机降落 贝尔法斯特，乘坐巴士回学校的路上我 接到了HR的电话，她告诉经过10周的考 核公司愿意offer我一个全职的岗位，“ 恭喜你！”。当时真的非常开心，能在 毕业前就找到了理想的工作，一年前来 到贝尔法斯特，一年后再次归途，我实 现了当初立下的目标。
我是2017年12月毕业的，毕业对我来说 就是一年真的太短了，我感觉还有很多 东西我没有做就结束了，我很希望可以 在Queen’s待久一点！
2017: CFA全球投资分析大赛爱尔兰地 区冠军
2017: CFA 考试奖学金
2017: 一等荣誉学位毕业
我从广东出发飞往贝尔法斯特，所以我 可以从香港机场直飞伦敦然后转机到贝 尔法斯特。总共花费17小时。现在还记 得当我第一次踏上英国土地时是有多么 地兴奋！
由于我住在我的朋友家，所以生活上节 省了很大一笔费用。
我的朋友家在一个离贝尔法斯特很近的 一个叫里斯本的城市。我每天会先骑自 行车到火车站然后搭乘40分钟火车到学 校。这是一个非常酷的经历，每天可以 骑车锻炼，而且我住在一个非常具有北 爱风光的乡村，我的邻居是在草原上吃 草的可爱的绵羊和奶牛。
当新学期开始时，学校会组织一个欢迎 晚会。会邀请所有的新生参加。学校老 师教我们跳北爱尔兰当地的传统舞蹈， 并且可以认识来自不同国家的朋友，是 一个非常棒的活动。另外，不同的节假 日，学校都会有不同的聚会，比如说万 圣节在学生会中心有万圣节装扮派对， 可以享受很棒的音乐和喝当地特色的啤 酒，结识新老朋友。
在硕士期间，我在假期也去了多个国家 旅游，包括爱尔兰，法国，德国，捷 克，瑞士，摩洛哥等等。到不同的国度 旅行对我来说是一件十分有意义的事， 因为可以学习不同国家的文化和当地的 事物。我最喜欢的回忆之一是在撒哈拉 沙漠上骑骆驼！
我希望我可以了解更多的信息在我出发 去大学之前，比如住宿，校园环境等 等，甚至是在去之前就能交到一些朋 友。这样我到了之后就可以更快地开始 新的生活。我觉得现在很方便，订阅 Queen’s的微信公众号或者微博，加 入新生群就可以接收到很多有用的信息 了。
对我来说刚到大学最大的挑战是语言上 的障碍和不同的教学模式。我花了大概 几个月才逐渐适应了新的语言环境，中 间我还参加了大学里的语言社团，帮助 我更快地提高了我的英文水平。
我建议学弟学妹可以在课外多参加一些 其他活动认识更多的朋友和参与更多的 对话来提高自己的英文技能，这样才能 使自己更加的自信和变得独立。
我在Queen’s的硕士学年非常的短 暂，但是我觉得我完成了非常多我从未 预想过的事情。我为自己达成的成就感 到自豪。在Queen’s的每一天都很充 实，这段旅程帮助我成为了一个可以独 自面对各种挑战的更加独立的人。在这 里交到的朋友，吃到的当地的美食， 到不同国家的旅行，学习，毕业，到 最后找到了理想的工作，这些都是在 Queen’s努力付出后收获到的。我真 的跟感激Queen’s给我的每一个提升 自己的机会，感觉每一个在校园度过的 瞬间，在这度过的一年促使了我成为一 个更好，更加勇敢，全新的我。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-profile-marketing:
我来自广州，第一次知道Queen’s 是因为在我实习的时候有机会与Queen’s在广州办公室的工作人员一起工作，那时候有意愿想要出国但是不知道选择什么学校比较好，在他们的介绍下我了解到了Queen’s 是一所历史悠久的百年红砖院校， 国际化环境浓厚，中国人比较少， 恰好我想要念的专业市场营销还能提供实习机会，以专业实习报告代替传统论文，我当时就毫不犹豫的申请了我们Queen’s，并顺利的开启了我的Queen’s之旅。
学校课程设置很合理，第一学期主要是学习入门的消费者行为和市场管理以及作为市场人必须要了解的经济学和会计学，第二学期则难度开始加深，学习目前最重要的数字营销和市场分析等。第三学期则可以自由选择实习，研究项目或者传统论文。
我觉得在我的课程最让我惊喜的一点就是，所有老师都非常注重理论与实践的结合。例如我们当时为啤酒厂whitewater制定营销策略时，我们小组一同去他们啤酒厂参观并且与创始人进行谈话以获取更多有效信息， 并且去当地的酒馆做问卷调查等等， 运用自己在课堂上学到的知识和调研结果完成报告后，再以演讲的形式给老师和啤酒厂创始人进行宣讲。这一个过程很不容易但非常能锻炼我们的
实际工作能力。这也是我觉得和中国教学方式有着很大不同的点，我们从中学到了更多的实务能力。与此同时，由于这边中国人相对其他学校会比较少， 老师也会很贴心的把我们中国人和外国人分在一个小组，为我们提供一个很好的国际化的学习环境，也很能培养我们的团队精神和交到外国朋友。
在Queen’s的美好回忆真的太多了，但我最喜欢的就是周末和我的舍友们一起探索贝法，做一些不一样的事。在第二学期的时候，Queen’s 给我们宿舍全体人员安排了一次贝尔法斯特科林格伦森林公园一日游。这是一个空中冒险乐园，有高低绳索课程，攀岩墙还有自由落体跳跃等项目。非常的刺激又好玩。
我选择Queen’s的另一个重要原因是我这个marketing的专业是可以选择实习并提交研究报告代替传统论文，这提供了我很好的机会让我把课堂上学到的知识运用到实际工作中，为我往后的就业奠定良好的基础。我目前在英国女王大学人文与社会科学学部的国际学生招聘团队实习，我的两大主要工作职责是研究中国社交媒体，为人文与社会科学学部提供一份相关的策略报告和协助部门运营社交媒体——微博。对于做研究报告这一项任务，我的研究生课程已经给了我无数次锻炼的机会， 每一门课程都要求我们对不同公司做一个市场营销计划。而且我的同事们都非常的支持我，帮助我在短短的两个星期内迅速熟悉整个部门的工作流程，因而还能较顺利的完成。对于微博运营这一板块，对我来说是相对困难但又非常有趣的。我需要跟我的同事去拍摄相关视频，对于我这个有着镜头恐惧症的人来说是很不容易的，但慢慢的克服了这个障碍之后我反而变得更加自信，能够在镜头面前展现自我。最重要的是，在实习过程中，本来对未来就业迷茫的我慢慢找到了喜欢的就业方向——教育行业。真的很感谢学校 给我这次实习的机会，它对我未来的发展非常有帮助
由于我太晚买机票了，供我选择的航班不多，最后我还是选择了高性价比的航线——乘坐25个小时的飞机，其实正常来说13个小时左右就能到达了。我的飞行路线是香港-（中停泰国）-迪拜-伯明翰-贝尔法斯特。特别是当我坐上伯明翰飞向贝尔法斯特的飞机的时候， 我惊奇的发现，整一个航班就只有我一个中国人。那时候我就开始感到兴奋，知道自己选择了自己想要的。
我乘坐的是阿联酋航空，就是人们俗称的土豪航空。飞机座位很大，坐起来很是舒服，餐饮也很丰盛。总的来说还是很推荐的。
关于住宿，我选择了学校的公寓-7 College Gardens,一个月包bill只需要400磅。公寓距离女王主教学楼仅3分钟的距离，去管院-Riddle hall也只需要走10分钟，想要去大Tesco-Tesco superstore 买烹饪的食材也只需要15分钟左右。20分钟路程就能到市中心。这里相当于是日常生活的中心，去哪里都很方便。
我当初想要选择住学校宿舍就是因为我知道学校很注重提供国际化环境给我们，每一个宿舍都会尽量安排不同国家的人住在一起，更好的感受文化差异带来的火花。我们一栋楼住有15个人，却来自超过9个不同的国家，例如越南、法国、荷兰、西班牙、爱尔兰、韩国、印度、新加坡等等，同时也有三个中国的小伙伴跟我一起。我们每天生活在一起就像个文化大杂烩，但特别有意思。周末有空的时候，我们会一起去买食材各自做自己拿手的菜然后一起品尝，晚上也会安排一些节目例如看电影或者玩游戏。由于刚开始自己口语不是很好，我还很担心自己很难融入到他们生活圈当中去，但事实上大家都很友好，也很乐于去交朋友，分享自己的见闻，也会很照顾我，跟我说话的时候语速会放慢，鼓励我多点与他们交流， 我的口语也因此得到了很大的提升。
住在贝法很方便的一点就是，基本上所有的地方你都可以通过步行到达，因此我基本上在交通费用上是没有什么开支的。贝尔法斯特作为英国生活成本最低的城市，使得我们花最少的钱，留最值得学。我每个月购买食材的钱只需80 磅左右，所以基本每个月加上住宿、餐食的话是500磅不到。出去外面用餐也不贵，人均每次可能就是8.5磅左右。
我在贝法生活的每一天都觉得很充实。学校会举办很多活动，提供机会给我们与外国人交朋友。像万圣节的时候，我们贝法学联就组织了一个万圣节派对， 让我们真正体验到了国外的万圣节氛围。另外，还有制作万圣南瓜灯活动， 每个人都发挥自己的想象力制作属于自己的南瓜灯。在春节的时候，学联也会组织中国春节联欢晚会，邀请众多多才多艺的同学为大家进行表演，让大家有在家里过年的感觉。到了三月份，迎来了我们北爱尔兰特有的St.Patrick’s Day,学校会组织我们去参与游行，穿着Queen’s的T恤，在人群中穿梭，与大家热情共舞，真真切切的融入到当地生活。这些会是我毕生难忘的回忆。
当然，参加学校的社团也是一个很好的社交活动，毕竟我们学校有200多个社团供大家选择。在开学的时候， 学校会举行一个社团日，那时候就是大家了解和参加社团的最好机会。我根据我的兴趣选择了弓箭社团。每周一次短暂的训练时间但却收获了和西班牙朋友Pilar深厚的友谊。
机场，这就为我们的出行提供了极大的便利，基本上飞行1-2小时就能到达很多地方。在贝法的这一年中，我把英国著名的旅游城市都去了个遍，伦敦、约克、利物浦、爱丁堡、剑桥、牛津、曼切斯特、谢菲尔德等。也趁着圣诞假期和复活节假期，游览了众多欧洲国家， 如芬兰、瑞典、法国、西班牙、德国等等。我最享受的是在旅途中能不断地发掘一些新鲜事物以及认识新朋友，给予我机会不断地丰富我的人生阅历。
临近要离开贝法了，我才意识到我们贝法还是有很多美味的餐厅，很多美好的风景，很多好玩的游乐项目。在探索世界的同时一定不要忘了好好探索身边的事物。
就我自己而言，我觉得生活在贝法还是很方便的。刚来到这里可能大部分的人会感觉饮食很不习惯，但万幸的是这边有很多中国餐厅，各种菜式的都有。如果是想要自己做饭，贝法这边也有5个中国超市，最大的有亚洲行、Lee Food等等。基本上你需要的食材都能在这两家超市找到。
很感激当初的自己选择了Queen’s， 在这一年的时间里，我收获了很多不一样的经历，学会了很多技能，找到了自己想要的未来就业方向，也曾遭遇过挫折，并学会独自面对与解决，但在这里发生的种种都将极大的影响我往后的生活，我变得自信、独立，也变得更加坚强、勇敢，我坚信这些经历必然会使我受益终生。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-profile-educational-studies:
周晓航 教育硕士
我来自中国湖北。 我的硕士申请是DIY的。首先我了 解到罗素联盟这个全世界诺贝尔奖 得主最多的著名高校联盟，接着我 逐一浏览了罗素联盟各个高校的官 网。第一次进入Queen’s的官网 时，我就被雨中的Lanyon Building 所吸引了。随着我越来越多地收集 到Queen’s和Belfast相关的信息， 我觉得在这里学习和生活，既能体验 英国的文化，又融合爱尔兰民族的风 情，性价比很高，会是不错的选择。
我在Queen’s就读的是 教育研究硕士课程。
我认为这个硕士课程中最好的部分是 课程设置。一共分为三个学期，前 两个学期上课，后一个学期跟着导 师写毕业论文。在前两个学期中，既 有教育学三大板块的必修课，又有 教授如何进行教育研究的必修课。 同时，还可以从社会科学、教育、 社会工作学院下设的其他专业中选 课。在这样的课程设置下，既夯实了 本专业的基础，又鼓励学生扩大跨 专业的视角。这样的课程设置非常 有逻辑，令我就业后也受益匪浅。
关于Queen’s和Belfast, 我有太多热 爱的事物！作为一个不会且不爱做饭 的人，我几乎吃遍了Belfast的大街小 巷，令人回国后都无比惦念的美食， 打破大家对黑暗料理帝国的刻板印象。 但我最热爱的，是这里的人。同学、老 师、教员、邻居、路人、Tesco的收银 员…每一位都是那么真诚和友好，令我 在异国他乡的繁忙学习中充满感恩。
我申请到一份在人文社科学部做学生助 理的工作。主要负责协助办公室开展海 外招生和宣传工作。从一个对英语没有 自信，填工作申请表格都需要很久的 人，在同事们的鼓励下，越来越敢于也 乐于使用英语去交流沟通，甚至还参与 了英文视频的字幕翻译。在这份工作 经历里，我收获了很多善良的朋友， 认识了更好的自己，第一次真实地感 受到能够帮助别人的工作所带来的幸 福，由此也明确了未来的求职意向。
国际学生大使 国际学生大使行使向公众推广 Queen’s的职责，是一个可以参与各 种校园内外活动的好机会，比如带领新 生游览校园和参观巨人之路、在Erne伯 爵的邀请下参观其城堡和领地、协助当 地市长开展“国际学生周”等。体验丰 富有趣，而且可以经常吃到好吃的哟！
我的毕业典礼在2017年12月14日
由于工作原因，我父母无法前来参加 我的毕业典礼。当天，人文社科学部 的各位同事们陪伴着我，一起笑笑闹 闹，从正门起一路拍照，留下许多珍 贵的照片。由于邻近圣诞节，同事们 在办公室的白板上画了一棵圣诞树， 树下堆满了送给每个人的礼物，并把大 家的照片贴在树上作为装饰，而我是树 顶的那颗星星。直至今天看到，我都眼 眶发热。谢谢大家给了我一个没有任何 遗憾，满是祝福与感动的毕业典礼！
我搭乘了三趟航班，航班信息和航空 公司如下：武汉到上海 2小时15分钟 上海到伦敦 11小时 伦敦到贝尔法斯特 1小时15分钟
中国东方航空 英国航空
生活成本
榆树村套间 124英镑每周 校外租房 235英镑每月 由于我不会且不爱做饭，日常开 支的大头就是超市购物和外出就
餐，一顿晚饭在5-15英镑左右。 日常开支大约是700英镑每月。 自己做饭的话，会省很多钱。 我非常喜欢贝法的节日集市，例如圣乔 治市场的黄昏集市和市政厅的圣诞集 市。在这里，有来自各地的美食和五彩 斑斓的灯光。傍晚下课或下班，约上 朋友们一起去逛吃逛吃，非常开心。
从贝法出发去旅行 在贝法期间，除了去欧洲旅游之 外，我经常去伦敦和都柏林。
从贝法到伦敦经常有特价9.9英镑 的机票，非常便利。伦敦有很多免 费的艺术馆、博物馆以及美丽的公 园，周末去逛逛是个不错的选择。 此外，我也非常喜欢都柏林，持有 T4签证的情况下，申请爱尔兰签证 是免费的，只需要支付快递费。从 贝法坐火车去都柏林也很快，我 很喜欢爱尔兰人的热情和开朗， 请一定要品尝一下爱尔兰咖啡。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/careers-employability/alumni-profile-interpreting:
邹圆 口译博士生
我来自中国大连 在我读研期间，现导师去我的大 学做讲座，我因此得知了女王大 学和其翻译专业和口译专业。经 过和导师的讨论，我决定来到女王 大学攻读博士。毕业之前申请，硕 士毕业那年的九月顺利来到了贝 尔法斯特开始了新的学习生活。
我的专业是口译
博士没有授课内 容，但是可以去旁听上硕士生的翻 译和口译课程，参加各种研讨会与 技能培训，了解领域内最新的进 展。我们专业的老师人都非常好， 课上课下特别欢迎大家提问和讨 论，培养同学们批判思维能力。
我很喜欢女王大学的建筑，她的教 学楼很漂亮，我上课的研究院和主 楼我认为是学校里面最漂亮的两栋 楼。每天去上课的时候，感觉自己 走进了19世纪的梦里。充满维多利 亚时期古典美的建筑内同时配有先 进的设施，为老师同学提供方便。
我竞选了女王大学的国际学生大 使，代表国际学生参加和组织各式 各样的活动，比如接待外宾和校园 导览等等。因为我的专业是翻译， 所以还帮助学部做一些翻译工作。 学校有各种奖学金，每个国际学生会 有入学时的国际学生奖学金，同时我 还申请了桑坦德旅行奖学金和学院的 旅行补贴等等，用来出国开会，认识 同领域的学者，相互交流开拓眼界
我成为了一名国际学生大使，使我有很多机会参加各种活动，例如带领客人参观校园。为女王大学艺术、人文与社会科学学部提供有偿中文翻译。大学为我们提供丰富的奖学金。入学第一学年，我被授予国际学生奖学金。我还申请了桑坦德流动奖学金和学校旅行基金去参加国际会议。
我从大连出发，先到北京，然后北京飞 到伦敦，在伦敦转了一圈，再飞贝尔法 斯特。第一次坐飞机到贝法是非常新鲜 和刺激的，同时离家也有些不舍，我 现在还留着上飞机当天家乡的报纸。 我坐过中国航空，海南航空，阿联酋 航空等，我一般会购买北京和伦敦往 返；或者北京到都柏林往返的机票。
贝法有两个机场，去英国境内城市 飞机都在一个小时左右，还是很方 便的。去爱尔兰首都都柏林可以坐 火车和大巴，大概需要两个多小 时。到欧洲也很方便，所以有时间 就可以去探索一下不一样的地方。
我和朋友们合租一个房子，均摊房租和 电费，暖气费等。价格不贵，一个月 房租加电费网费暖气费等人均250-300 镑。贝法的生活成本和其他城市相比 低很多，是一个很适合居住的城市。
每周生活费主要都花在吃喝上，去超 市，中超等等买东西主要也是买吃 的。自己做饭会比较省钱，一周20-30 镑左右，如果学习比较忙没有时间 做饭，也有很多餐馆，平均一顿6-8 镑吃一份，是个省时间的好方法。
很多社交活动，比如学校的迎新周，中 国学联的迎新聚餐，文化节，春节晚 会等等。我们寝室室友有时间也会一起 聚餐，学院、专业同学也经常聚会。
贝法这里天气还好，不会很热也不会 很冷，全年平均气温15度左右。冬 天零度到十度之间，短暂的夏天大概 20度到25度。时不时下雨，所以风 衣大衣，遮雨的帽衫等会很实用。 生活用品在当地超市基本都可以买到， 中超的货也越来越齐全，实在不行还可 以亚马逊，所以出发前不必太担心。 新生可以加微信群，关注微博等方式 提前了解学校，认识一些朋友。同时 刚开学会有很多活动，鼓励大家多参 加，还可以加入自己感兴趣的社团，培 养兴趣的同时也能与大家多多交流， 了解来自不同国家的文化习俗等等。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/applying-to-queens/english-language-courses:
INTO中心是英国女王大学的一所学院，它为国际学生提供一系列的学术预科课程和英语语言课程，为学生未来在女王大学学习做好准备。英国女王大学INTO中心将为您提供一流的教学设施、浓厚的学习氛围、高水平的师资力量和个性化的学生支持服务。
本课程为在短期内集中提高学术英语的课程。适合已获得攻读女王大学研究生学位资格、具备相应英语语言水平的学生。
本课程每周课时为20小时，适合已获得女王大学录取资格、需要在其本科或研究生学位课程开始前提升英语语言水平的学生。本预备课程授课时间为七月到九月初。具体的课程时长取决于学生当前的语言水平和学位课程的要求。
本课程将：:
如果您已经符合女王大学的学术入学要求以及其他重要条件，并取得预备英语课程要求的成绩水平而达到了录取条件，您可以直接升读大学课程，无需再次进行雅思考试。
了解更多信息
学期内英语课程的设置是为了助力学生充分发掘其学术专业潜能。开设学期内英语语言辅导班是为了帮助学生在学术研究中有效地运用英语进行知识沟通。目前设置有四种不同的授课类型，研讨会式的课程班涵盖听、说、读、写的内容。
这些英语语言辅导班向所有已支付学费的女王大学国际学生免费开放。详情请登录：go.qub.ac.uk/INTOEnglishlang
如果您的雅思成绩未达到入读预备英语课程的最低要求，请点击 联系女王大学INTO中心 ，查询达到入读要求的其他标准。
关于您选择的课程所需的英语语言水平，请咨询英国女王大学获取详细信息。/p>

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/study/foundation-courses:
深圳大学英国女王大学基础课程国际证书 班（JFP女王班）提供为期一年的强化型 预科学位课程，授课地点为深圳大学。深 圳大学是深圳经济特区内一所经国务院认 可的全日制综合性大学。
学生通过基础课程班的学习获得国际预科 证书和赴女王大学继续深造本科学位的机 会。女王大学为英国知名的科研型高校之 一。
四大方向课程:
立即申请2021年的课程

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/management:
我们将为您提供与您的课程、即将举行的线上研讨会、奖学金机会（价值2000英镑）和英国女王大学留学生活相关的信息。

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/news/Title,4127378,en.html:
27/05/2025
HycaPure™是一种能够去除天然气中汞污染物的离子液体技术，由英国女王大学离子液体实验室（Queen’s University Ionic Liquid Laboratories，简称 QUILL）与马来西亚国家石油公司（PETRONAS）合作研发。
2012年，首套HycaPure™商业化试点系统正式启用；截至2017年，马来西亚国家石油
公司的加工厂已安装13套完整的工业级HycaPure™系统，带来了巨大的处理能力。
随着合作深入，QUILL与PETRONAS之间的持续研究为该公司提供了转型契机，使其逐步将研发重心从传统的石油天然气领域，转向更加环保的低碳技术。这体现在双方正在共同推进的一项价值240万英镑的创新低碳技术研究项目上。
在碳氢化合物生产过程中，去除危害健康、安全以及污染产品的杂质是一项重大挑战，而汞污染是天然气行业面临的突出问题。
汞是一种剧毒元素，可存在于天然气井和生产流程中。全球油气加工厂每年排放的汞高达11吨。汞污染对生态系统和人类健康构成全球性威胁，因此最好在生产现场及时将其从气流中去除。
目前常用的汞去除技术，如化学修饰活性炭（包括银浸渍分子筛和混合金属硫化物/氧化物洗涤器），不仅成本高昂、效率低下，还存在以下问题：
Queen’s的突破性解决方案： 基于离子液体的高效除汞新技术
英国女王大学在离子液体（液态盐）及其绿色化学应用领域已开展20余年的突破性研究。
QUILL专注于离子液体的设计、性能及工业应用的基础研究，并具备深入理解离子液体“结构-性能”关系的强大理论背景，从而可以精准地控制和利用离子液体。
凭借这一优势，研究团队开发出基于离子液体，且从天然气和凝析油中去除汞的全新方法。然而，这一技术需满足以下严苛条件：
此后，英国女王大学研究团队合成并测试了一种将活性离子液体结合到多孔固体中的新材料，主要用于实验室规模的气流净化。这项技术也就是如今的HycaPure™。
在与PETRONAS的合作下，HycaPure™从实验室技术成功放大至试点规模，并首次在该公司的一座陆上天然气处理厂投入商业化运行。随后，研究人员进一步探索了如何将这一技术拓展至湿气和液态烃凝析油的汞污染治理中。
HycaPure™ Hg是一项屡获殊荣的技术，可有效去除单质汞、无机汞和有机汞在内的多种汞形态，其化学反应机制能将汞捕获并转化为不溶性稳定复合物，避免汞重新溶解于原料流中。
技术影响：推动化工行业可持续发展
英国女王大学QUILL研究中心是全球首个专门研究离子液体的实验室。这里开发的离子液体（或称“超级溶剂”）是一种在室温下保持液态且不释放有毒挥发物的盐类。
离子液体具有巨大的潜力，可以彻底改变我们的生活和工作方式以及我们对环境的影响：
这项研究的成功不仅限于一项单一技术的大规模应用，更在于其巩固了PETRONAS与QUILL的合作关系，并转化为长期伙伴关系，并将持续产出重要的研究与培训成果。
媒体咨询请联系英国女王大学通讯媒体部，邮箱 : comms.officer@qub.ac.uk 电话 +44 (0)28 9097 5292 .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/news/Title,3766870,en.html:
04/03/2025
英国女王大学的研究人员开发了一种名为“康复套餐”（The Recovery Package）的新型随访护理模式，显著改善了癌症幸存者及其家属的支持性护理。
研究挑战
应对癌症幸存者未满足的需求
2007年，英国国家医疗服务体系（NHS）意识到，癌症幸存者有着大量尚未被满足的医疗需求，而传统的随访护理模式难以对此提供充分支持。这一问题促使研究人员深入探索癌症幸存者的实际需求。
研究方法
癌症康复后的生活
2010年，英国女王大学的研究人员进行了一项研究，发现治疗结束2到15年后的癌症幸存者，在身体机能、情绪调节、整体健康感知和社交功能方面的状况均明显低于普通人群。
研究还发现，癌症幸存者的生活质量较低，且和普通人群相比，他们在心理健康和财务支持等方面存在更多未满足的需求。
此外，研究发现，与其他慢性病患者相比，癌症幸存者的非正式护理者（如家属）在身心健康方面的压力明显更大。同时，护理者的信息需求在很大程度上未得到满足，而现有的医疗服务体系也未能提供充分的渠道，可以让护理者向临床医生表达自身的困扰和需求。
基于这些研究成果，英国女王大学的研究团队推出了“康复套餐”这一创新型癌症患者随访护理模式，该模式包括：全面评估、治疗总结记录、个性化护理方案以及快速复诊机制。
研究影响
改善癌症治疗的随访护理
英国女王大学的研究促成了一项由麦克米伦癌症护理基金会（Macmillan Cancer Care）资助130万英镑的项目——“改善癌症随访”（Transforming cancer follow up），为北爱尔兰的癌症患者提供更优质的护理服务。
对“康复套餐”的独立评估显示，北爱尔兰每年至少有 1000名癌症幸存者从中受益，包括：
此外，该研究还促成了 在线支持系统（ www.cancercaringcoping.com ）的开发，该平台已纳入北爱尔兰医疗体系，每年为 10,000个家庭 提供支持，并已被推广至澳大利亚 和越南，为更多癌症患者家庭提供帮助。
英国女王大学致力于在全球推广“康复套餐” 以便让更多患者及家属获得持续关怀！

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/about-queens/news/Title,3686087,en.html:
13/02/2025
英国女王大学的研究团队长期为美国第二大石油公司雪佛龙（Chevron）提供科研支持，协助其开发ISOALKY™技术。这项技术是一种比氢氟酸（HF）更安全、更环保的替代方案，它代表了75年来烷基化油生产领域最重要的发展，将对未来几十年全球清洁燃料的生产产生深远影响。
如何利用离子液体实现更清洁、更安全的燃料生产
烷基化油因其低排放和高辛烷值，被认为是最清洁、最高效的汽油混合成分。作为一种化石燃料，它兼具环保性和经济性。然而，现有的烷基化油生产过程依赖氢氟酸（HF）作为催化剂，这是一种极具腐蚀性和毒性的挥发性液体，不仅对操作安全要求高，而且成本昂贵。
开发ISOALKY™ 技术
英国女王大学离子液体实验室（QUILL）成立于1999年，致力于探索离子液体在工业应用中的潜力。该实验室由已故的Kenneth R.
Seddon OBE教授（1950-2018）联合创立，并得到了包括雪佛龙在内的17家公司的工业顾问委员会的支持。
ISOALKY™技术依赖于一种Lewis酸型离子液体催化剂，其中的氯铝酸根离子是Lewis酸性成分。QUILL与全球合作伙伴在离子液体领域进行了广泛研究，包括物理性质的基础研究、离子液体中的无机化学、光谱与催化研究，以及与催化剂再生和再循环相关的基础化学。正是这种全方位的专业知识，使QUILL能够在ISOALKY™技术开发的各个阶段为雪佛龙提供支持。
与传统酸催化剂（如氢氟酸）相比，ISOALKY™催化剂具有以下优势：
“由Seddon教授领导、后由Swadzba-Kwasny博士接棒的研究团队的卓越专业知识，在支持这一真正创新技术的发展中发挥了至关重要的作用。”
——雪佛龙首席科学家
清洁燃料生产 领域 的 重大 突破
ISOALKY™技术是75年来烷基化油生产领域首个成功的新技术，预计将在未来几十年对全球清洁燃料生产产生重大影响。该技术采用非挥发性酸性离子液体，不仅操作更安全，而且成本更低，同时还能生产出高质量燃料。
2017年12月，ISOALKY™技术荣获普拉茨全球能源奖“年度突破性解决方案奖”，评委们称其为“改变行业规则的技术”。它不仅解决了炼油行业的环保难题，还带来了巨大的市场机遇，对全球清洁燃料生产具有“巨大的潜在影响”。
2021年，雪佛龙宣布其位于盐湖城的炼油厂成功启用了一个使用离子液体催化剂的烷基化装置，替代了传统的氢氟酸或硫酸催化工艺。这标志着离子液体工业化进程的里程碑式发展。
致力于技术革新，
英国女王大学通过清洁燃料生产技术，
为全球环保事业贡献力量！

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Legal:
While every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the original material provided on the Queen’s University Belfast website, Queen’s University Belfast does not represent or warrant that the information available on this website is accurate, complete or current.
The Queen’s University Belfast provides the website, its contents and facilities on an "as is" basis and makes no (and expressly disclaims all) representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, with respect to this website or the information, content, or services made available through the website.
The Queen’s University Belfast, its officers and employees, do not accept liability for any loss, damage or injury of any kind, howsoever arising, resulting from a defect or an inaccuracy in the information or code contained within the University website.
This material is regularly reviewed and is subject to alteration without notice.
The Queen’s University Belfast is not responsible for the content of external websites that the University website may link to or reference from time to time.
Providing references to and/or links to external websites should not be viewed as an endorsement by the University of the content and services provided by those websites.
Nor is the University responsible for the opinions, content and services contained on external websites that link to or reference the Queen’s University Belfast website.
Queen's University endeavours to ensure that its website resources are accessible to all, regardless of disability.
Any user who experiences difficulty accessing University website resources and who may require access to Assistive Technology such as screen readers, voice recognition software, alternative mice/keyboards, etc.
should contact staff within Disability Services ( disability.office@qub.ac.uk ) who will liaise with colleagues to make appropriate provision.
A number of our online services require users to engage and provide information in order to gain access to content, for example our Library and Research Systems.
These systems need to store information about these interactions so they can provide the service and in some instances they use cookies to do this.
Additionally where users are required to login to gain additional functionality or to gain access to user customised facilities, cookies are essential to our websites functioning correctly for access control and security.
Please Note - If you disable cookies in these instances, core functionality and services may not be available to you or the quality of the service will be severely degraded.
University Portals, (e.g.
Queen's Online and PURE and Qsis), our Web Content Management System, the Virtual Learning Environment, Library Systems and our Outlook Web Access Email Service require users to login to use the system.
These systems use cookies for access control, system security, personal data security, effective monitoring and internal business reporting.
The storage of cookies by our Online Environments is provided for under regulation 6 of the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations Section (4) Paragraph (1) in that the directive:
… shall not apply to the technical storage of, or access to, information
(a) for the sole purpose of carrying out or facilitating the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network; or
(b) where such storage or access is strictly necessary for the provision of an information society service requested by the subscriber or user.
The cookies used by our Online Environments are not used for any purposes other than access control, system security, personal data security, effective monitoring and internal business reporting.
The cookies stored are session cookies and are removed once you have closed down all your browser windows.
Three main web analysis tools are used at Queen’s, Google Analytics, Piwik Analytics and Awstats.
They are used to monitor the traffic to the site, to collect information about how users are using the site and to produce reports for business and marketing purposes.
The information gathered is not used to identify individual users.
Awstats reports are based on analysis of the web server log files and it does not store cookies on a user’s machines.
The data collected by Awstats is held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and the data:
However both Google Analytics and Piwik create cookies on your machine.
The cookies collect information about how the site is used, the number of visitors to the site, where visitors have come from and the pages they visit while on our site.
In the case of Piwik information about the use of our site, including user IP addresses is held at Queen’s in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and in the case of Google Analytics the information collected, may be transmitted to, and stored by, Google where we will use it for analysis and reporting purposes.
We have enabled Demographics and Interests tracking with Google Analytics.
For more information please see Google’s statement on Cookies and Analytics and Google Privacy Centre .
The Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on can be installed in your browser to tell the Google Analytics JavaScript (ga.js) that information about your website visit should not be sent to Google Analytics.
This add-on does not interfere with other information gathering processes such as information gathered by Awstats.
Find out about the Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on .
Queen's University Belfast may advertise online using the Google Display Network to deliver text, images and videos on participating websites using Google's Remarketing technologies.
When you visit a participating website Queen's may ask for one of our ads to be displayed to you.
This is based on your previous interactions with Queen's websites, for example if you have previously visited undergraduate course finder pages at Queen's we may use the Google Display Network and associated Remarketing technologies to make you aware of our next Undergraduate Open Day.
Periodically Queen's will make use of the Google Remarketing service and Google DoubleClick, both of these will place cookies on your computer, but please be aware this is an anonymised process and we cannot use any of the information stored to personally identify you, the cookies will store information about your browsing device and aspects of your browsing history.
The DoubleClick.net cookie is needed for online advertising frequency capping and avoiding ad duplication, so a user will not be shown the same ad again and again.
Find out how to opt out of Google Display Network ads .
If you would like to make a complaint about content on any of the University websites or there is an issue that you would like us to address in relation to a website please follow this link and fill in and submit the available form.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/TermsandConditions:
(Research and Taught Programmes)
When you are offered a place on an undergraduate or postgraduate taught course delivered at the University you will be notified of the terms and conditions between the University and students on our taught programmes of study.
When you accept an offer of a place on a programme at the University, a contract is formed between you and the University on the basis of the terms and conditions outlined in your offer letter.
These terms and conditions are also available below for 2023 and 2024 and 2025 entry (Taught Programmes).
Your offer letter and the terms and conditions contain important information which you should read carefully before accepting any offer.
On the day you accept an offer from the University the contract will be formed and a 14-day cooling-off period will begin.
Our Terms and Conditions are available to download below
As outlined within the terms and conditions of entry to Queen’s University Belfast which were issued to applicants after they were made an offer, the University committed to informing students directly of any significant changes to the regulations and policies that form part of their contract with the University.
The changes also apply to students continuing on their programmes of study.
Please note the terms and conditions available to download above are applicable to taught students entering Queen’s University Belfast in 2026 only.
Please note the terms and conditions available to download above are applicable to Research students entering Queen’s University Belfast in 2026 only.
The following courses at Queen's University Belfast have bespoke terms and conditions.
View 2025 entry terms and conditions
View 2024 entry terms and conditions
View 2023 entry terms and conditions

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/china/en:
Queen’s University is the 9th oldest university in the UK and part of the elite Russell Group.
Join the 1200 students from China currently studying at Queen’s and get the edge in the global job market.
Queen's is ranked in the Top 200 in the world
Ranked 8th in the UK for research intensity, the leading edge research by our academics informs our exceptional teaching.
95% satisfied with the campus environment at Queen’s
The Business School is one of the top business schools in the UK and Ireland, offering world-class programs in Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management, Human Resource Management and Marketing.
Learn more
Got a question or would like to meet us in China?
Connect with us through WeChat or Weibo.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/News:
Queen’s University Belfast has achieved its seventh successive Green Flag Award at the NI Green Flag Awards 2025-26, reinforcing its position as having one of the UK’s top green spaces, following a full review and audit of the site.
Queen's fourth annual Pride Picnic took place on Wednesday 23 July 2025.
Gillian Riddell, Technician Commitment Manager at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded the prestigious Papin Medal in recognition of her outstanding leadership and commitment to the technical community in higher education.
Queen’s University Belfast has been ranked among the world’s top 100 universities in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings, putting us into the top 5% of universities worldwide.
Summer Graduation 2025 took place from Thursday 26 June to Friday 4 July.
Reboot Café, a vibrant social and wellbeing gaming hub located in the heart of Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded the prestigious Innovation in Student Experience Award at the 2025 CUBO Awards held on 11 June.
Queen’s has achieved the Fairtrade University Award, which gives recognition to institutions that have embedded ethical and sustainable practices through their curriculum, procurement, research, and campaigns.
Queen’s University Belfast marked Refugee Week 2025 (16-22 June) with a meaningful programme of events bringing together staff, students, and members of the wider community to learn, reflect, and celebrate the contributions of refugees.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer to the Queen's University Belfast staff community.
Queen’s University Belfast hosted the inaugural All-Ireland Technical Conference on 10 June, bringing together technicians, researchers, and academics from across the island of Ireland.
As part of the University’s commitment to fostering an inclusive, accessible, and supportive workplace, we’re pleased to announce that all Queen’s staff – and their families – now have free access to Read&Write for Work.
Queen’s officially launched its 180th anniversary year on Tuesday 20 May.
Staff and students from a range of Queen's Schools and departments took part in this year's Balmoral Show.
The second in a two-part video message from the University Management Board, updating staff on the University’s proactive approach to ensuring financial sustainability.
The first in a two-part video message from the University Management Board (UMB), updating staff on plans to support a smooth Post-Voluntary Severance transition.
Judith Millar from Queen’s has won a prestigious Women in Tech award, which celebrates her role innovating, challenging and embracing technology.
Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, is pleased to announce the following new senior appointment:
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer to the staff community.
Reboot gaming café has won in the ‘Innovation’ category at the 2025 Public Sector Catering Awards.
Niamh Turner, Residential Support and Events Manager in Queen’s Accommodation, has won Residential Life Hero of the Year at the Association for Student Residential Accommodation (ASRA) Conference 2025 in England.
REACH '25, Queen's arts and sustainability festival, took place from Wednesday 2 April to Saturday 5 April.
A video message from our new Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Richard Miles.
Congratulations to all colleagues recognised in the Staff Excellence Awards 2023-24.
The winners were announced at a celebration event on Friday 28 March in the Mandela Hall, hosted by comedian Andrew Ryan.
The Staff Excellence Awards 2023-24 celebration event was held on Friday 28 March in the Mandela Hall.
As part of International Women's Day, Queen’s has honoured 15 women from across the University with a powerful art exhibition, featuring specially commissioned watercolour portraits by renowned Irish artist Laura Callaghan.
The official launch of 'In Good Company: Portraits of Queen’s Women' took place in the Naughton Gallery on 7 March.
Queen's University Belfast's LGBT Celebration Showcase took place on 25 February 2025.
Queen’s is proud to have participated in NI Apprenticeship Week from 3rd to 7th February 2025.
Queen's Sport and the University's Staff Wellbeing Unit have joined forces to offer 20 free spots to staff who sign up for the Queen's 3km or 5km run, taking place on Wednesday 2 April.
Queen’s physicist Dermot Green secures a €2M European Research Council (ERC) Consolidator Grant to advance his ANTIMATTER project, exploring low-energy antimatter interactions with matter and light.
Winter Graduation 2024 took place from Monday 9 December to Friday 13 December.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer as we approach the holiday period.
Queen’s will participate in European Week for Waste Reduction 2024 with an engaging line-up of sustainability events taking place across the university campus from 18 to 23 November.
Queen’s Finance Directorate has launched a new Financial Operating Framework that will support the financial sustainability of the University both now and for years to come.
Congratulations to the 212 staff members who have successfully progressed in the 2024 Academic Progression Exercise.
Ten graduates have secured Grade 3 roles in various Faculties across the University through the Queen’s Administration Academy, run in collaboration with Belfast City Council.
The annual Postdoc Showcase at Queen’s University took place on Monday 16 September.
The theme of this year's event was 'Helping to Shape a Better World’.
Queen's University Belfast has successfully renewed its Green Meeting Gold status, a significant achievement that underscores the University’s ongoing commitment to sustainability.
Queen’s Marine Laboratory’s 14th annual Open Day took place on Saturday 3 August at its picturesque loughside location in Portaferry.
On Wednesday 31 July, Queen's University Belfast achieved its sixth successive Green Flag Award for its Main Site at the NI Green Flag Awards 2024-25.
Queen's University Belfast's third annual Pride Picnic took place on Wednesday 24 July 2024.
Summer Graduation 2024 took place from Thursday 27 June to Thursday 4 July.
On Wednesday 19 June the Queen's Belfast Region City Deal team hosted an event showcasing Queen's three Innovation Centres.
Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, is pleased to announce the following new senior appointments:
Video address from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer, including a message from Professor Richard Miles, who has been appointed as Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
Leading academics and figures from Queen's University Belfast have been recognised in HM The King’s Birthday Honours List 2024.
This year's Queen's Teaching Awards winners have been announced.
These awards recognise the excellent practice of colleagues at various stages of their careers and in different roles across the University Faculties and Professional Services.
On Thursday 30 May, Queen's held a programme of events to celebrate its institutional Athena Swan Gold Award, and the University's progress and commitment to gender equality.
Video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer; Julia Farkaš, NIPSA Branch Chair; Sean O'Connell, President of UCU at Queen's; & Beth Elder, Students' Union President, on the successful conclusion of local pay negotiations.
Queen's University Belfast's third Technician Showcase took place on Thursday 23 May 2024.
Queen’s University Belfast has today announced a new institutional approach to tackling period poverty – the inability to access period products.
Mental Health Awareness Week took place from Monday 13 to Friday 17 May, with a range of wellbeing and sporting events centred around the theme of 'Movement'.
REACH '24, Queen's University Belfast's first arts and sustainability festival, took place from Thursday 18 to Saturday 20 April.
A staff event was held in the Great Hall on 26 March to celebrate the Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC) receiving full business case approval from the Department for the Economy.
Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, is pleased to announce four new senior appointments:
Congratulations to all colleagues recognised in the Staff Excellence Awards 2022-23.
The winners were announced at a celebration event on Friday 22 March in the Mandela Hall, hosted by comedian Andrew Ryan.
The Staff Excellence Awards 2022-23 celebration event was held on Friday 22 March in the Mandela Hall.
On Monday 4 March, Queen's Gender Initiative held a networking lunch as part of the University's programme of celebration events marking International Women's Day 2024.
Wednesday 21 February 2024 saw the launch of Iolra, Morra, More , the new Staff Network for promoting linguistic diversity and minority languages at Queen's.
Queen’s University Belfast today held its first Sustainable Construction Conference – a half-day event designed to deepen knowledge of reducing carbon in buildings.
Queen’s Fellowship Academy recently celebrated its fourth anniversary at a special celebration event held in the Canada Room and Council Chamber on 24 January.
"We need politics that work and puts people first.
We need to invest in our young people.
For every pound invested in Queen's, our economy benefits by £8 in return.
But we need a HE system that enriches our lives, our society and our world."
Winter Graduation 2023 took place from Tuesday 12 to Friday 15 December.
The Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC), a £100m Queen’s-led project through Belfast Region City Deal, is on target to start construction in spring 2024 following a successful government Gateway Review.
Queen’s University Belfast has recently received a hat-trick of accolades in recognizing the University’s commitment to sustainability.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer to the Queen's community.
On Tuesday 5 December staff, students and guests attended the screening of Delivering the Impossible: Agreement Twenty Five - a documentary short on the people behind the delivery of the Agreement 25 conference hosted at Queen’s in April 2023.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer on Queen’s University Belfast’s Annual Report 2022-23.
Queen’s University Belfast has collaborated with Emmy-nominated studio Fine Point Films on a documentary short that tells the story of the people behind the delivery of the Agreement 25 conference hosted at Queen’s in April 2023.
To mark National Tree Week, 26 native saplings have been planted at Malone Playing Fields on behalf of the 26 areas that achieved a response rate of 70 per cent or more in the Staff Survey.
The Climate+ Co-Centre and Co-Centre for Sustainable and Resilient Food Systems are both co-directed by Queen's academics.
Professor Mark Lawler, Professor of Digital Health and Chair in Translational Cancer Genomics at Queen’s University Belfast has received a Special Merit Award from the European Cancer Organisation (ECO).
Professor Chris Elliott, founder of the Institute for Global Food Security at Queen’s University Belfast, has been appointed as the first Honorary President of The Society of Food Hygiene and Technology (SOFHT).
Queen’s University Belfast has signed a five-year extension of its occupational health and wellbeing services contract with the Belfast Trust.
Queen’s University’s President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sir Ian Greer, has been formally knighted by the Princess Royal at a ceremony hosted at Buckingham Palace.
Queen’s has announced the appointment of three Professors to newly established Chairs in the Senator George J.
Queen’s has announced the appointment of Eddie Friel as Director of Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy.
Queen’s University Belfast’s Professor Kevin Vowles has been appointed as a UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Policy Fellow with the Northern Ireland Executive.
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast has announced the appointments of Stacey Gregg, Lisa O’Neill, and David Park as the Seamus Heaney Centre Fellows for 2023-24.
Queen’s has officially launched Queen’s Business School and the new Student Hub building during an event on Monday 23 October.
Queen’s University Belfast launched a brand-new Childcare Apprenticeship Scheme which is open to anyone who would like to pursue a rewarding career in childcare.
Queen’s University Belfast has today (Thursday 19 October) launched an ambitious Net Zero Plan to focus on tackling the climate crisis.
An academic from Queen’s has been awarded the prestigious RSPB Medal on behalf of the Climate Coalition Northern Ireland for their successful campaigning to deliver historic climate legislation in Northern Ireland.
Queen’s Staff Survey 2023 launched on Monday 16 October and will be live for four weeks until Friday 10 November.
The annual Postdoc Showcase at Queen's University took place in the Whitla Hall on Friday 29 September.
The annual Postdoc Showcase at Queen's University took place on Friday 29 September.
The theme of this year's event was 'Creating Impact Through Collaboration'.
Queen’s Student Centre and Students’ Union at One Elmwood has been awarded 2 Construction Employers Federation (CEFNI) Excellence Awards.
This page sets out Queen’s University Belfast’s response to recent events in Israel, Gaza and the Middle East, including advice and support for staff and students impacted.
The passing of philanthropist Chuck Feeney – who famously set out to give away his vast wealth during his own lifetime – leaves a legacy that will benefit others for generations to come, the Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s has said.
Three academics from Queen’s University have been elected as Fellows to the Academy of Social Sciences.
Queen’s University Belfast has been shortlisted in two categories of the Green Gown Awards, which celebrate sustainability excellence across universities and colleges.
A team of researchers, including Dr Chris Watson from Queen’s, has won an award in the Science Foundation Ireland-Irish Aid Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Challenge for their research into childhood pneumonia.
Queen’s is one of five Higher Education Institutions across the UK to be awarded a Community Innovation Practitioner (CIP) Pilot by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Creative Communities programme.
Queen’s University has announced the appointment of Professor Archie Clements to its leadership team as Pro-Vice-Chancellor (PVC) for Research and Enterprise.
Queen’s University has held its first ever Race Equality in Higher Education Conference to highlight and support the importance of race equality across the university, the community and wider society.
Queen's University Belfast has won the ‘Best Energy Achievement in Third Level Education’ award at the Business Energy Achievement Awards 2023 in Dublin.
Queen’s University has signed up to the Public Health Agency’s (PHA) Breastfeeding Welcome Here scheme which aims to actively show support to breastfeeding mothers.
Professor Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, a counterterrorism and human rights expert from the School of Law at Queen’s, has been elected to the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) for a five-year term.
Queen’s University welcomes today’s news that the UK is to rejoin the European Union’s multi-billion Euro, Horizon Europe science-research programme.
Queen’s has announced the appointments of Orla Corr OBE as Pro-Chancellor of the University and Adrian Doran as Honorary Treasurer of the Senate.
Award-winning poet Michael Hofmann has been appointed as the fourth Seamus Heaney International Visiting Poetry Fellow at Queen’s.
On Thursday 14 and Friday 15 September Queen's welcomed staff for tours of the newly branded Queen's Business School.
The newly branded Queen’s Business School is set to open the doors of its new £26m innovative Student Hub building for over 3,000 students and staff when the new academic year starts later this month.
Queen’s University Belfast has announced a £4.9m new landmark venue for the Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s, which will open for staff, students, and the public in early 2024.
Queen’s University’s Science Shop team have today (3 August) been announced as winners at the national Advance HE teaching awards.
Queen’s University Belfast has launched a new Sustainable Print Policy to help limit printing and reduce the University’s carbon footprint.
On Monday 24 July Queen's University Belfast’s Main Site was again recognised as one of the UK’s top green spaces at the Green Flag Awards 2023-24, held in Killeavy Castle Estate.
Queen's University Belfast's Pride Picnic 2023 took place on Wednesday 26 July.
Thirty-seven students from Queen’s University Belfast will be journeying to the United States to study at universities and colleges next month.
Dr Stephen Kelly from the School of Pharmacy at Queen's has been announced as the inaugural winner of the 2023 ‘Outstanding Pharmacy Early-Career Researcher Award’ (OPERA).
The winners of Queen's Teaching Awards 2023 have been announced.
These awards recognise the excellent practice of colleagues at various stages of their careers and in different roles across all three University Faculties.
Professor Colin Harvey from Queen’s University Belfast is one of six new Commission Members recommended for appointment to the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission.
Statement from Queen’s University Belfast on UCEA decision.
Summer Graduation 2023 took place from Thursday 29 June to and Thursday 6 July.
As part of our continued implementation of Strategy 2030 and following an extensive public recruitment process, President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer is pleased to announce two new senior appointments.
Former Registrar and Chief Operating Officer of Queen’s James O’Kane has been honoured at his former workplace for services to Business and Commerce and Higher Education.
Queen’s University Belfast has climbed 31 places to be named one of the top
universities in the world in the QS World University Rankings.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer, Sean O'Connell, President of UCU at Queen's, and Beth Elder, incoming Queen's Students' Union President, on the conclusion of the marking and assessment boycott.
On Thursday 22 June, Queen's staff and students came together for a social and wellbeing event, jointly organised by the Language Centre and Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic and International Staff Network.
Statement from Professor Ian Greer DL, President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen's on receiving the honour of Knight Bachelor in the King’s Honours list.
On Wednesday 14 June this year's Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework (LEAF) Awards took place in The Great Hall, highlighting the efforts undertaken by 31 labs across Queen's to achieve LEAF Accreditation.
On Wednesday 7 June, the 'Connect' Staff Carers' Network at Queen's came together for a barbecue on the quad to mark Carers Week 2023.
On Tuesday 6 June, the winners of the AHSS Digital Teaching and Learning Awards 2023 were announced at a virtual awards ceremony.
Four Queen's University Belfast alumni and a Queen’s researcher are amongst five of 37 people across Ireland to be awarded a Fulbright scholarship this year.
As part of our continued implementation of Strategy 2030 and following an extensive public recruitment process, President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer is pleased to announce two new senior appointments.
Dr Ving Fai Chan, Lecturer in Global Eye Health from the Centre for Public Health at Queen’s University Belfast, has been awarded The European Academy of Optometry and Optics Fellowship and the highest honour from the Ministry of Health, Zanzibar.
Queen’s University Belfast has been ranked in the top six per cent of institutions worldwide for sustainability in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2023.
Three distinguished academics from Queen’s have been officially admitted to the Royal Irish Academy in recognition of their outstanding academic achievements in the humanities and social sciences.
A Queen’s University scientist has received a prestigious award for his outstanding achievements in plasma diagnostics.
Mental Health Awareness Week 2023 took place from 15 to 19 May and Queen's staff were welcomed to a range of events organised by Staff Wellbeing.
As part of Mental Health Awareness Week 2023, a selection of personalities and experts from the worlds of academia, sport, business and the media visited Queen’s this week to share their experiences of building a resilient mindset.
The Northern Ireland Multiple Sclerosis Research Network (NIMSRN) at Queen's University Belfast has won the British Society for Immunology (BSI) Outstanding Team Award for 2023.
Queen's President and Vice Chancellor, Professor Greer has warned that planned cuts to the Higher Education budget will have a fundamental and dangerous impact on the Northern Ireland economy that could inflict long lasting damage on its prosperity.
It was double delight for Queen’s University, Belfast, at the Balmoral Show, winning the Best Overall Trade Stand while its School of Nursing and Midwifery picking up the Best Overall Stand.
On Thursday 28 April, the University launched its sixth annual Inclusive Employment Scheme at The Cube, One Elmwood in partnership with the NI Union of Supported Employment (NIUSE).
Queen’s University Belfast is proud of the positive links it has with the Royal Family.
Since our Queen’s College days right through to the 21st Century, family members have always been part of our story.
Professor Kieran McEvoy, Professor of Law and Transitional Justice and theme lead on rights and justice at the Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute at Queen’s, has been awarded a prestigious Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship.
A video message from Acting University Secretary Alistair Finlay on various initiatives underway to improve your experience at work.
On Tuesday 18 April, day two of the Agreement 25 Conference, Queen's hosted the collaborative event 'Media in Conflict and Peace'.
Two academic experts from the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at Queen’s have been awarded prestigious British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships.
Queen's University Belfast Acting Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Stuart Elborn updates staff on projects underway to reduce administrative workload at Queen's.
The three-day Agreement 25 event at Queen’s University has already secured almost £14 million of media coverage, with the figure likely to rise significantly in the coming days.
Eight dedicated educators from Northern Ireland received honorary degrees from Queen's University Belfast in Limavady today to recognise their contribution to shared education.
The third and final day of the conference was hosted in association with the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils, and included addresses from senior government officials and panel discussions with both local and global business leaders.
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast staged Seamus Heaney Centre Presents… HOPE, an evening of conversation, poetry and music at the Mandela Hall as part of the Agreement 25 conference.
Day Two of the conference opened with keynote addresses from senior government figures and other leaders followed by a recording of 'The Rest is Politics' podcast.
Over half a million pounds has been raised for a new scholarship fund launched by President and Secretary Clinton as part of the Agreement 25 Conference at Queen’s University, Belfast.
The focus of the world was on Belfast today when global political leaders past and present arrived to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement (B/GFA).
A dedicated scholarship fund to support US study opportunities for economically or socially disadvantaged local Queen’s students is being launched by former US President, William J Clinton and the University’s Chancellor, Secretary Hillary R Clinton.
Senator George J.
Mitchell and former Prime Minister for Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Tony Blair have been announced as attending Queen’s University’s three-day conference to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement.
The Northern Ireland Life and Times (NILT) Survey shows 69% agree the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement remains the best basis for governing NI.
However, 55% believe it needs at least some reform.
1 in 6 (16%) say it should be removed altogether.
Queen’s University Belfast is to bestow its highest honour on Pat Hume and Lady Trimble as part of its Agreement 25 events.
Queen’s University Chancellor, Secretary Hillary R.
Clinton, will recognise the role of trailblazing women in Northern Ireland as part of the Queen’s University’s signature conference to mark 25 years since the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement.
Six academics from Queen’s University Belfast have been selected to form part of the Young Academy Ireland – an all-island network of 40 early career researchers and innovators.
Queen’s have collaborated on a landmark two-part RTÉ documentary series to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement which will be broadcast on RTÉ One and RTÉ Player.
Queen’s recently launched spring Open Learning programme puts emphasis on appreciating our natural environment with courses on Native Trees, Bird Watching for Beginners and Learning the Songs of the Birds.
Global leaders, past and present, will be at the centre of Queen’s University’s programme of events for the major Belfast/Good Friday Agreement Conference on 17-19th April.
Professor Gavin Andrews, Chair of Pharmaceutical Engineering and Deputy Head of School in the School of Pharmacy at Queen’s University Belfast, has been elected to the prestigious Fellowship of the Irish Academy of Engineering (IAE).
Queen’s students have joined local residents and Belfast City Council out on the streets of Belfast as part of this year’s Big Spring Clean.
An academic from Queen’s has visited the U.S.
Naval Station Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, as part of her role as United Nations (UN) Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism.
Fifteen subjects at Queen’s University have been ranked in the top 200 in the world.
Former President of the United States, President Bill Clinton, and the Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast, Secretary Hillary R.
Clinton, are among the first global leaders to be announced as part of Agreement 25 at Queen's.
Queen's Sport and the University's Staff Wellbeing Unit have joined forces to offer 30 free spots to staff who sign up this week for the Queen's 3km or 5km run, taking place on Thursday 23 March.
Queen's University Belfast President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer announces the University's Belfast / Good Friday Agreement 25th Anniversary conference, 17 to 19 April 2023, and invites staff and students to apply for tickets.
International Women’s Day is an opportunity to celebrate inspirational women scientists and the meaningful contributions they make to research and discovery every day.
Professor Anne-Marie McAlinden from Queen’s is one of fifty-six leading social scientists to be elected as a Fellow to the Academy of Social Sciences.
Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ian Greer, welcomes Queen's first substantive Vice-President and Chief People Officer, Gillian Magee.
Queen’s University has announced the appointment of its first substantive Vice President and Chief People Officer, Gillian Magee.
Two new Temporary Directors have been appointed in the Directorate of Strategic Engagement and External Affairs.
Italian Honorary Consul for Northern Ireland, Dr Federica Ferrieri, has been awarded the prestigious Knight of the Order of the Star of Italy ( Cavaliere dell'Ordine della Stella d'Italia ).
The American Academy of Microbiology (Academy) has elected Professor Jose Bengoechea and 64 peers to the Class of 2023.
The winners of the Staff Excellence Awards 2022 were announced at a celebration event on Friday 17 February in the Whitla Hall, hosted by actress Alexandra Ford.
Professor Roger Woods has received a prestigious Engineering Excellence Award from the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Queen’s University has hosted the Northern Ireland regional launch of an important new guide on how universities respond to a death by suspected suicide.
Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ian Greer, provides an update for staff on recent developments in the University.
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s has announced the appointment of Dr Dane Holt as their new Publishing Fellow, and Dr Milena Williamson as the new Ciaran Carson Writing and the City Fellow for 2023.
On Tuesday 24 January a full attendance of 80 students and staff members attended the launch of the Chinese New Year celebrations at Queen's.
Staff at Queen’s University have welcomed the Minister for Energy and Climate, Graham Stuart MP, to its world class Marine Lab in Portaferry.
On Friday 13 January Queen's President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ian Greer, welcomed the Leader of the Labour Party to the University.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer, encouraging all within the Queen's Community to have their say and help shape a new strategy that will take us to net zero.
In early 2022, Northern Ireland set a target of net zero carbon emissions by 2050 in the Climate Change Bill.
As a University, we want to help lead the way and demonstrate what is possible.
Professor Ryan Donnelly from the School of Pharmacy at Queen’s University Belfast has been selected as a Highly Cited Researcher for his exceptional research influence and multiple highly cited research papers.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer as we approach the holiday period.
A recent report shows that Queen’s University makes a multi-billion-pound contribution to the UK economy.
On Monday 5 December 2022, members of the Queen's community came together for our Athena Swan Awards Celebration, recognising our sector-leading achievements towards gender equality.
Professor Michalis Matthaiou has been awarded prestigious IEEE Fellowship for his longstanding contributions to fundamental research and practical implementation of massive MIMO.
A video message from President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer, setting out the University's new leadership structure.
A Queen’s University Belfast researcher has been awarded a prestigious fellowship for her work in creating natural materials to help repair bone fractures.
Professor Mary McAleese and Lord Lieutenant of Belfast, Dame Fionnuala Jay-O'Boyle, attended a painting unveiling and Platinum Jubilee Scholarship presentation event at Riddel Hall on 9 November 2022.
An academic from Queen’s University has been elected to the Council of the Royal Historical Society.
A total of 500 native saplings have been planted at Malone Playing Fields as part of the One Million Trees for Belfast initiative.
Staff and students from Queen’s University Belfast have been accepted to the inaugural 30 Under 30 Climate Change Makers programme.
Members of Queen's University Belfast's staff and student community joined in a Black History Month celebration event on Monday 31 October in the One Elmwood foyer.
Members of Queen's University Belfast's staff and student community joined in the Black History Month celebrations at the Belfast Black History Expo 2022 on 26 October at St George's Market.
The Naughton Gallery is celebrating two decades of enhancing the Queen's experience for staff, students, and the wider community.
A video message to the Queen's community from our President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ian Greer, and QUBSU President Emma Murphy, setting out new support for students and staff in response to the cost of living crisis.
Queen’s University has announced a multi-million-support package of £7.69 million for students and staff facing the current cost of living crisis.
Congratulations to the 131 members of staff who have progressed to a new grade/range in the 2022 Academic Progression exercise.
They are:
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast has announced the appointments of Roddy Doyle, Kae Tempest and Conor Mitchell as the Seamus Heaney Centre Fellows for 2022-23.
Queen’s has launched this year’s Green Fund which allow staff and students to apply for funding to bring their green ideas to life.
Queen's University's annual Postdoc Showcase took place on Wednesday 21 September.
The theme of this year's event was 'Resilience and Innovation'.
Award-winning poet Jane Hirshfield has been appointed as the third Seamus Heaney International Visiting Poetry Fellow at Queen’s University.
Professor Roger Woods from Queen’s University Belfast is among 72 of the UK’s most prominent engineering and technology experts elected as a Royal Academy of Engineering Fellow.
A Professor of Practice at Institute for Global Food Security & School of Biological Sciences has been appointed to a top EU panel of experts to help drive forward solutions to the climate crisis, in particular the key role that soil health can play.
Professor Nola Hewitt-Dundas has been appointed as a non-executive director to the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Board.
The Senate of Queen’s University Belfast has unanimously reappointed the President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ian Greer, for a second term of Office.
Sara Lynch, Head of Sustainability at Queen's University Belfast, shares future plans to enhance biodiversity and progress sustainability across campus.
Queen’s University has launched two new policies designed to offer support to staff experiencing the menopause and those undergoing fertility treatment, whilst raising awareness of the issues with line managers and other staff members.
Nadhim Zahawi, the Chancellor of the Exchequer visited Queen’s University on 10 August to celebrate Northern Ireland’s exceptionally strong cybersecurity sector.
Queen’s continues to fly the flag for sustainability with yet another award recognising its success in making the most of its green spaces.
Leading academics from across Queen's University Belfast have been recognised in HM The Queen’s Jubilee Birthday Honours List 2022.
Queen's University Belfast's first Pride Picnic took place on Wednesday 27 July, bringing together staff and students to celebrate Belfast Pride 2022 with music and free street food outside the Elmwood Hall.
Twelve Queen’s University Belfast labs have been awarded Bronze Certificates in a sustainability pilot aimed at reducing negative impacts on the environment in the laboratory setting.
The unveiling of a new portrait of Professor Carol McGuinness took place on Thursday 23 June in the Great hall as part of a collaborative event between Queen's Gender Initiative and the School of Psychology.
Queen’s University Belfast has climbed ten places to 24th position in the UK in this year’s Complete University Guide league table.
A key research talent in condensed matter physics will return to the UK to take up a prestigious fellowship at Queen’s University Belfast as part of a £97.8 million UK-wide programme.
Queen’s University has become the first organisation on the island of Ireland to be given a Green Meetings Gold award.
A Queen's alumnus and two Queen’s University Belfast researchers are three of forty people across Ireland to be awarded a Fulbright scholarship this year.
Queen’s University Belfast is part of a major partnership awarded £3.4 million to create a Development Network connecting approximately 500 research and innovation leaders from across the UK.
Queen’s University Belfast has launched a new initiative aimed at enhancing support for staff with caring responsibilities.
Queen’s University has marked Her Majesty The Queen’s Platinum Jubilee by planting a magnolia tree on the grounds of the university campus as part of the Queen’s Green Canopy project.
Professor Mark Lawler has been elected as a Fellow of the European Academy of Cancer Sciences (EACS).
The winners of the inaugural Queen's Technician Awards 2022 were announced at the University's Technician Showcase 2022.
Queen's University Belfast's second Technician Showcase took place on Thursday 26 May in the School of Biological Sciences.
Dr Gladys Ganiel and Professor David Jones from Queen’s University Belfast have been officially admitted to the Royal Irish Academy for their exceptional contributions to the sciences, humanities and social sciences, as well as to public service.
Queen’s University Belfast is the latest organisation to join the Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC), a not-for-profit international advocate for digital preservation.
Professor David Jones is among 60 of the UK’s most prominent biomedical and health scientists elected to The Academy of Medical Sciences’ prestigious Fellowship.
Dr Gail McConnell, Senior Lecturer from the School of Arts, English and Languages at Queen’s, has won the 27th  Christopher Ewart-Biggs Memorial Prize, worth £7,500, for her book of poetry, The Sun Is Open, published by Penned in the Margins.
An electronic engineering Professor at Queen's University Belfast has been elected as a new Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS), which is the highest recognition of scientific endeavour in the UK.
Queen’s University research has been rated joint 1st in the UK for Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science and 4th in the UK for Health and Biomedical Sciences by the REF 2021.
Law research has been ranked 8th in the UK.
It is with great sadness that we have learnt of the passing of an esteemed colleague, Professor Adrian Long OBE, Emeritus Professor in the School of Natural and Built Environment.
Dr Kirsty Taylor, a Clinical Fellow from the Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research at Queen’s, has received the prestigious 2022 Conquer Cancer Merit Award from the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO).
Professor Janice Carruthers has been made a Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Académiques by the French Ambassador to the UK, Her Excellency Mme Catherine Colonna, at a special ceremony at Queen’s University Belfast.
Staff carers at Queen's came together in Riddel Hall on Wednesday 23 March to meet in person, share experiences and celebrate the valuable work of carers across the University.
On Wednesday 16 March, the Lord Mayor of Belfast helped Queen’s students and the San Souci Residents Association as they planted trees at Elms Village.
A Queen’s University Belfast academic has been recognised as a leading expert in her field after being named a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast is delighted to announce the appointment of Hilary McCollum as their new Publishing Fellow, and Darren Murphy and Tara McEvoy as the new Ciaran Carson Writing and the City Fellows for 2022.
Cheryl Lawther, Senior Lecturer in the School of Law and Fellow of the Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice, will move to the University of California, Berkeley to take up a Fulbright Irish Scholarship.
Queen’s University’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Ian Greer has welcomed the signing of the Belfast Region City Deal, describing it as a momentous occasion for the region and for innovation in Northern Ireland.
Queen's has been awarded the Silver Diversity Mark by Diversity Mark in recognition of its commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
Queen's has achieved Platinum status – the highest scoring level – for the fourth year running in the 2021 Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey.
Professor Helen McCarthy will take on the responsibilities of the Dean of the Graduate School on a temporary basis.
Professor Mihalis Mathioudakis, Director of Research at Queen’s Astrophysics Research Centre, has been awarded the 2021 Institute of Physics Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin Medal and Prize for distinguished contributions to plasma, solar or space physics.
Professor David Grieve has been appointed as Dean of Internationalisation in the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences.
Shannon Caldwell has been appointed as Director of Operations in the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS).
On 4 November, Queen's University Belfast won three awards in the prestigious Student Nursing Times Awards 2021.
The recipients of the Queen's Teaching Awards 2021 have been revealed.
The Teaching Awards recognise and reward excellent learning and learning support practices delivered by colleagues in Schools and Professional Services across the University.
Queen’s University Belfast has launched a Bike Hub in partnership with social enterprise Big Loop Bikes, to increase access to cycling for staff, students and the wider south Belfast community.
Queen's has been recognised for a third consecutive year in Northern Ireland's prestigious Green Flag awards.
Taoiseach Micheál Martin was at Queen’s University Belfast on Friday 8 October to discuss all-island research collaboration.
A new Postdoctoral Development Centre (PDC) launched this week will ensure that postdoctoral researchers across Queen's are equipped with the support and guidance to enable them to fulfil their potential.
Staff and students came together in the Great Hall on Monday 4 October to celebrate the opening of an engaging and informative programme for Black History Month during October 2021.
Staff and students came together on Monday 4 October to celebrate the opening of an engaging and informative programme for Black History Month hosted by Queen's African and Caribbean Society.
Congratulations to the 152 members of staff who have progressed to a new grade/range in the Academic Progression 2021.
The video and podcast series, The Partition of Ireland: Causes and Consequences , is now available online in full.
Professor Roy Spence, Professor of Surgery at Queen's and a Consultant Surgeon at Belfast City Hospital, has been recognised in this year's Queen's Birthday Honours list.
Working in partnership with Manguard Plus, Queen's University Belfast's Security Service has been awarded WorldHost Business Recognition - national recognition of its commitment to customer service.
In partnership with Fika Mental Fitness, the Faculty of EPS Wellbeing Committee announced the launch of a pilot focused on promoting the positive mental health and wellbeing of its new level 1 and direct entry level 2 undergraduate students.
Queen's University Belfast has announced the appointment of Professor Margaret Topping as Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Internationalisation.
The Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen’s University Belfast has announced the appointment of Wendy Erskine, Denise Riley and Tim Wheeler as the Seamus Heaney Centre Fellows for 2021 – 22.
Delivered on the occasion of her installation ceremony in Queen's University Belfast's Whitla Hall on 24 September 2021.
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton will be officially installed as Queen’s University Belfast’s first female Chancellor at a ceremony in the Whitla Hall today.
Queen's University Belfast is pleased to announce the appointment of Ryan Feeney as Director of Public Engagement.
Queen's is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Dr John King, Chair of the University Foundation Board.
Dr Aidan McGowan, a senior lecturer in Computer Science at Queen’s, has been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship 2021.
The winners of the AHSS Digital Learning Awards (2021) were announced this week at a virtual awards ceremony, hosted by Professor Jannette Elwood with special guest Professor David Jones.
It is with great sadness that we have learnt of the passing of an esteemed colleague, Professor Rick Wilford, Emeritus Professor in the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics.
It is with great sadness that we have learned of the passing, on Saturday 12 June 2021, of a former member of Senate, Ms Sheila Fleming.
Chris Elliott, Professor of Food Safety from the School of Biological Sciences and founder of the Institute for Global Food Security (IGFS) at Queen’s University Belfast has received a prestigious Agilent Thought Leader Award.
Dr Julia Miskelly from Queen’s has been recognised by UKRI as having a job that ‘changes the world’ as part of their ‘101 jobs campaign’ which highlights some of the many roles that contribute to the success of the research and innovation system.
Two distinguished academics from Queen’s have been admitted as members to the Royal Irish Academy for 2021.
Two Queen’s University Schools have been successful in the latest round of the Athena SWAN awards.
A Queen's University Professor has been elected to the Academy of Medical Sciences, the independent body in the UK representing the diversity of medical science.
January 2021 marks the one year anniversary of the official launch of the Queen’s Fellowship Academy on 13 January 2020.
Queen’s Management School has been awarded the prestigious and internationally recognised EQUIS accreditation for management and business schools.
Queen's University's Lanyon Conservation and Restoration Project has received a prestigious national recognition at the Natural Stone Awards 2020.
Queen's University Belfast has won the Student Engagement Award at this year's Green Gown Awards UK & Ireland.
An academic from Queen's has been elected to the Academy of Social Sciences, the national academy of academics, learned societies and practitioners in the social sciences.
Professor Mark Lawler has received the prestigious 'Irish Association for Cancer Research Outstanding Contribution to Cancer Medicine and Research' Award.
Queen's University is once again delighted to be a key supporter of the annual Imagine Belfast Festival of Ideas and Politics.
Professor Paula J Reimer, an archaeologist in Queen's School of Natural and Built Environment, has been named 'Archaeologist of the Year' at the 13th annual Current Archaeology Awards, announced on Friday 5 March.
An academic from Queen's has been appointed to the Strategic Advisory Network of the EPSRC, the UK's main agency for funding research in engineering and the physical sciences.
Queen's Information Services directorate has been awarded a three-star Service Desk certification by the Service Desk Institute (SDI), achieving a ‘Customer-Led’ maturity level.
A Queen’s University astronomer has been announced as the winner of a prestigious award from the Royal Astronomical Society.
The New Year's Honours list 2021, published on 30 December 2020, recognised the achievements of two members of staff at Queen's:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/InternalCommunications:
We manage institutional communication to staff and students to engage, inform, connect and celebrate our staff and student community and help deliver the University's strategic goals.
We work closely with senior leaders and colleagues across Queen's, providing specialist advice , preparing communication plans, delivering internal campaigns and implementing targeted, evidence-based internal communication approaches.
Staff communication channels
Student communication channels
All staff have a role to play in ensuring a culture of good internal communication.
Colleagues are welcome to come to one of our drop-in sessions for advice on internal communication challenges or information on approaches to help engage and inform internal audiences.
Upcoming dates will be announced soon.
If you would like to arrange a separate time to speak with us, please email us.
Email the Internal Communications team
For general enquiries, please email internalcommunications@qub.ac.uk .
To speak to the team, please call 028 9097 5355.
Mary-Ellen Donaghy
Communications Manager (Internal)
mary-ellen.donaghy@qub.ac.uk 028 9097 5355
Paula McWilliams
Internal Communications Officer
paula.mcwilliams@qub.ac.uk
Lia McKenzie
Sustainability Communications Co-ordinator
lia.mckenzie@qub.ac.uk
Seth Blacklock
Assistant Internal Communications Officer
s.blacklock@qub.ac.uk
Gayle Alexander
Marketing and Communications Assistant (Employee Engagement)
gayle.alexander@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/StaffCommunications:
This section contains links to a range of communications produced to engage and inform our staff community.
A weekly online communication distributed to staff each Monday via email, summarising key announcements and events for staff.
A communication cascade through which managers share and discuss information with their teams.
Managed by the Internal Communications team, institutional emails are used to communicate urgent updates and important messages to all staff and/or all students.
An archive is available on Queen's Online under 'University Documents'.
A social media channel for our staff community, managed by the Internal Communications Team.
Staff-focused video content produced by the Internal Communications Team.
Latest news, information and key updates for staff, including 'Spotlight on our Staff' features.
The staff intranet.
The new Queen's Online Mobile App, downloadable from the Google and Apple app stores.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/StaffCommunications/TeamBrief:
A core staff communication channel, the Team Brief is about keeping everybody up-to-date with key university decisions, information and progress, supporting a culture of two-way communication within the University.
An evaluation of the Team Brief was conducted in summer 2023.
We are now in the process of agreeing a new approach.
The Team Brief is a quick and effective way of keeping staff informed about key University decisions, information and progress, and provides a channel for staff to give feedback and input.
It operates as a cascade and is delivered by managers to their teams, ideally, on a face-to-face basis .
Benefits
The Team Brief operates as a cascade with managers throughout the University, delivering a mix of core university and local team information and updates to staff.
Each month, and following discussions at UMB, a written Team Brief containing core university information will be circulated to the Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellors (PVCs) and Directors who will add in their own information relevant to their Faculty or Directorate.
The brief will then be cascaded throughout Faculties and Directorates with managers adding in local information relevant to their areas.
Ideally, the Team Brief will be delivered by managers face-to-face.
However, it is recognised that there is not one single cascade method suitable across the whole University, so Faculties and Directorates will have in place their own cascade mechanism for their individual area.
The Team Brief is made up of two types of content: 30% core brief items and 70% local brief content.
Core Brief Items: Information from UMB and senior management meetings as well as responses to staff feedback from previous briefs.
Local Brief Items: Information specific to your Faculty, School, Directorate and team.
This could include:
Feedback is an important part of the Team Brief.
Staff are encouraged to share their views and comments on any element of the Team Brief with their managers.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/Staffprofiles:
Talent and Capability Consultant, People and Culture Directorate.
Suzanne is a member of the Organisational Development Team within People and Culture, supporting talent and career development opportunities for staff across the University.
Clerical Assistant, Queen's Sport
As part of the Inclusive Employment Scheme, Richard Collis from the Orchardville Society has been working in an Admin Support role at Queen’s Sport.
Orchardville support adults with a learning disability or autism to find the right job and keep it using the model of Supported Employment.
Clerical Assistant, School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work
Daniela was recently a Clerical Assistant in the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work on a placement as part of the Inclusive Employment Scheme at Queen's.
Joint University and Colleges Neighbourhood Officer, Civic Engagement and Social Responsibility Directorate.
Stephen is a member of the Neighbourhood Engagement Team within Public Engagement, supporting students living within our local community and promoting good relations with local residents and community groups.
Senior Lecturer, School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences
Dr Eiman Abdel Meguid is a Senior Lecturer (Education) in the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education and Students)
As Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Students, Professor Judy Williams is responsible for steering the University’s education strategy, including maintaining oversight of educational performance and ensuring the highest standard of student learning experience and an environment and culture of innovation in pedagogy and educational enhancement.
Senior Lecturer in Human Geography
Dr Gemma Catney is a Senior Lecturer in Human Geography in the School of Natural and Built Environment.
Professor of Nursing
Professor David Thompson is Professor of Nursing in the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
Professor of Public Health and Planetary Health
Professor Ruth Hunter is Professor of Public Health and Planetary Health in the Centre for Public Health, School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences
Professor of Physical Geography
Professor Graeme Swindles is Professor of Physical Geography and Director of Geography, Archaeology & Palaeoecology in the School of Natural and Built Environment.
Senior Lecturer (Social Policy)
Dr Bronagh Byrne is a Senior Lecturer (Social Policy) and Programme Director of the MSc Children's Rights in the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
Professor of High-Performance and Data-Intensive Computing
Professor Hans Vandierendonck is Professor of High-Performance and Data-Intensive Computing in the School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and the Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology.
Language Support Officer, Information Services
Business Support Analyst, Academic and Student Affairs Directorate
Having worked in various clerical roles across the University, Caoilfhionn is now a Business Support Analyst with Qsis Services in the Academic and Student Affairs Directorate.
Head of Sustainability, Estates Directorate
As Head of Sustainability in the Estates Directorate at Queen's University Belfast, Sara Lynch leads the University's expanded Sustainability Team, overseeing the development of the University’s sustainability strategy.
As a member of the Estates Senior Management team, Sara is responsible for improving the University's sustainability performance across all activities, driving cultural and behavioural change throughout the campus and community.
Manager, Postdoctoral Development Centre
Dr Alice Dubois leads Queen’s Postdoctoral Development Centre (PDC) which ensures that postdoctoral researchers across Queen's are equipped with the support and guidance they need to enable them to fulfil their potential.
Technician, School of Natural and Built Environment
Dan is a technician in the School of Natural and Built Environment, providing electrical based technical support for students and research projects.
Lecturer, School of Law
Dr Conor McCormick is a lecturer in the School of Law, where his work focuses on constitutional and administrative law.
Lecturer, School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics
Dr Jamie Hagen a lecturer in International Relations in the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics and co-director of the Centre for Gender in Politics at Queen's.
Borrower Services Librarian, Information Services
Sally is Borrower Services Librarian in the McClay Library, looking after the Ground Floor team during the day, evening and weekend.
She is also a Representative on the University's Staff Forum and co-chairs PRISM, Queen's LGBT+ staff network.
Head of Portering, Estates Directorate
Martin is Head Porter in the Estates Directorate, overseeing the day-to-day workings of the portering department.
Technician, School of Arts, English and Languages
Craig is a technician in the School of Arts, English and Languages, providing technical support throughout the School's facilities and for research projects and events.
Clerical Assistant, School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics
Peter McCullough is a Clerical Assistant in the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics (HAPP) on a placement as part of the Inclusive Employment Scheme at Queen's.
Professor, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering
Professor Peter Robertson is Professor of Chemical Engineering in the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering.
An expert in energy and environmental engineering, his research focuses primarily around photocatalysis – the use of light to create and accelerate reactions – and its applications for solving key energy and societal challenges, including water decontamination and sustainable energy.
Peter is also Chair of Queen's Change Management Group.
Technician, Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology
Kirsty is a technician and 3rd floor laboratory manager in CCRCB, ensuring that the laboratory runs efficiently and safely.
She provides appropriate training in equipment and research techniques, ensuring Health and Safety compliance, and supporting research grants and projects in the Colorectal Cancer Research laboratory.
Kirsty also participates in public engagement in CCRCB, providing laboratory tours, and open days.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/staff-blog:
"CONNECT has been such an uplifting experience, giving me a real sense of community and practical support".
"Chatting with other carers and being signposted to a wealth of useful information was more helpful than I’d ever expected".
"I wanted to give something back to this charity as a token of my appreciation for all their support and kindness."
"As a mature person, I was 44-years-old when I applied.
It is never too late to change your career path and learn new skills."
"There are many benefits to an apprenticeship at Queen’s, including brilliant opportunities for growth and further career development."
"I would recommend an apprenticeship to anyone who has an interest and maybe hasn't had the opportunity before or is looking for a change."
"I can honestly say it's given me a new lease of life."
“As Chair of Senate, I am responsible for the leadership and effective operation of the governing body – both a privilege and a responsibility”
"I would encourage anyone within the university community to nominate a staff member they notice making a difference".
"Knowing that my work in empowering craftswomen in Zanzibar through improved eyesight was recognised at this level reinforced my belief in the power of community-centred, impactful projects".
“These updates are more than just procedural tweaks – they’re a bold step towards ensuring that all students at Queen’s feel empowered to seek the support they deserve.”
"Being somewhat of an outpost of Queen’s University Belfast, public outreach is an incredibly important part of what we do."
"Officially seeking University of Sanctuary recognition will allow Queen’s University to consolidate its commitment to embed values of safety, solidarity and empowerment within our communities and educational frameworks."
“CONNECT [carers network] is all set up to be supportive; it's fun, and the people are all nice, so I'd say to anyone that you'd be glad you've joined.”
“There’s an amazing relief that comes from speaking to someone about challenges you’re having, and hearing that they’ve been through it and come out the other side.”
“Caring can be lonely, but CONNECT is an opportunity to take a break from work and caring and to connect with others who have something in common.”
"All staff can avail of support for different aspects of their home life."
"When I heard there was a 'Guinness World Record for Fastest Marathon Dressed as a Scientist', I immediately decided I would do it."
“We trace the rich chemical heritage of Queen’s to Thomas Andrews.”
“I would encourage anyone who has a colleague whose work may not be getting much recognition locally within the university to consider nominating them.”
“I would really encourage people to check out the award categories and consider nominating a colleague.”
“To realise you are thought well of by your colleagues, past and present, is such a confidence booster.”
“Now is the time for you to tell us, through the Staff Survey, what you would like to see happen as part of our next Institutional Action Plan.”
“Our new building will be a place to bring people together – students, staff, business, and the community.
It promises to be a vibrant hub for making new connections.”
“These topics, which for too long have been taboo and associated with stigma, are now becoming mainstreamed in conversations about workplace, wellbeing and culture.”
“When we started talking about the events for Agreement 25, it struck me that the one group of people who had not been celebrated were those in the media.”
"In the midst of all of the change the University has witnessed, there has remained, for us, one constant: positive contribution, genuine impact and understanding the needs of society have formed the backbone of who we are and what we do."
"We are delighted to offer our University campus as a public space for debate and dialogue of immense importance to the local and global challenge of building, maintaining and strengthening peace."
"Inspired by Senator Mitchell and by all those who helped bring peace to Northern Ireland, the Mitchell Institute reflects Queen's University's commitment to try to secure a more peaceful world."
"As scholars with expertise in international human rights law and transitional justice processes in other post-conflict societies, we have for many years tried to use that knowledge to help Northern Ireland address its past."
"The arts play a significant role in conflict zones for diverting attention from the horrors of war and in redirecting post-conflict strategies towards social rebuilding."
"Criminal Irish girls and women in North America might not fit accepted views of trailblazing women but to ignore their experiences would be to overlook an important aspect of Irish gender history and the history of migration from this island."
"We are definitely on the road to embrace Diamond OA, but there is still a lot of work to do.
First and foremost, we need to convince ourselves that it's possible to do it on our own turf."
"Your priorities, concerns and ideas will help shape the new strategy."
"Tackling climate change is a truly colossal task that requires engagement from every member of society, including students."
"I’m really excited to see Queen’s begin the process of developing a new Net-Zero strategy and making Climate Action a central priority going forward."
"The next phase in our journey to net zero carbon will require a step change in ambition, investment and behaviour change."
“As an anchor institution, we take pride in social and civic responsibility, supporting progressive social change and economic growth in an environmentally sustainable way.”
“At a time of economic downturn, it is even more important to invest in research and innovation to see long term growth and secure people’s future.”
“We can already see that working closely with our City Deal partners will pay rich dividends for Northern Ireland.”
"One thing I have learnt over the years is that all carers value support and, particularly, respite.
A break from caring.
For some, work is respite."
"At Queen’s Sport, we believe sport can have a transformational impact on the student and staff experience."
"We want to support our students and staff in any way we can."
"Try to be specific and focused in your idea: think of something that you actually care about and are likely to be inspired by once it takes off."
"It is great to be part of an organisation that values outdoor space and is committed to ensuring it provides for staff, students, the local community and, importantly, our local wildlife."
"The Queen's Student Mentors over the last few years have been brilliant and I am so grateful for all of their hard work."
"The creation of One Elmwood presents a unique opportunity to enhance the student experience at Queen's."
"I have no doubt that the opening of One Elmwood will mark the beginning of an exciting new chapter for our Clubs and Societies."
"This is a living building that we know will be a hive of activity."
"Our new One Elmwood building provides an opportunity to further ensure that sustainability continues to be at the core of the University."
"Student evaluations indicate that they like quizzing as a means of gauging their progress, revision and ongoing study."
"What we, as individuals and as a community, do now has a huge impact on future generations."
“I started working as a plumber at Queen’s in 1964...
I am happy to have contributed in some small way to the success of the University⁣.”
Speaking at the memorial service for Ashish Vats, Isabel Jennings (MRCI) and Heather Taylor (MRCI) paid tribute to our Regional Manager in South Asia, who passed away suddenly in August 2021.
"I will be very happy if we fall just short of the eyebrows!"
"Ultimately, HD is trial and error and the mantra we now live by is to take one day at a time."
“I have used my position as a senior academic to promote innovation, to encourage collaboration, to support peers and promote excellent teaching within the university.”
"It would have been beyond my imaginings in September 1979 that I would still be working at Queen's in 2021 and in a different discipline from Sociology where I started work."
"My big wish for Anna Rose is she will live in a world where negative and outdated perceptions of Down syndrome are a thing of the past."
"There is always something we can do to improve our well-being and happiness.
Health and wellness goals are a great place to start."
"You can never be too prepared when it comes to a big meal like this."
"Everyone contributes something and that only emphasises the sense of community we have in our School."
"It's not the quality of my voice that matters, it's the joy that singing brings."
"As Head of Reward and Wellbeing, a key part of my role involves looking ahead and planning the right interventions at the right time."
"I wanted to let colleagues and families in similar situations know that you are not alone and we are in this together."
"It is ironic that while we are unable to venture into a multiplex, we are currently living through a scenario usually contained to the silver screen."
"As Co-Chairs of PRISM LGBT+ Staff Network at Queen’s, we have been reflecting on the challenges faced by LGBT people during the COVID-19 pandemic and looking at ways to help."
"I’ve learned that humanity cannot be suppressed even by this overwhelming public health crisis."
"If you are feeling stressed, anxious, scared or even frustrated right now, then you aren’t alone."

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/CampusLife:
Want to know what's on offer across campus for staff?
This section contains useful links about various aspects of campus life.
Campus Food and Drink – Where to eat and how to order delivered catering Welcome Centre – Range of gifts on offer.
10% staff discount available Students' Union Translink Smart Card – Top-up facility in the Students' Union reception Campus Food and Drink Markets – Regular Food markets on campus, promoting local producers
Queen's Sport – Range of programmes and classes, including Adult Activity Programme and Queen's Parkrun.
Staff membership rates available Staff Wellbeing – Activities and events to support health and wellbeing, including Couch 2 5k and Pedometer Challenge
Sustainability at Queen's – get involved in helping to reduce our environmental impact Sustainable Travel – initiatives to encourage you to leave the car at home, including Cycle+ Scheme , Belfast Bikes , and Carshare Club Recycling – your A-Z Guide to recycling on campus
MyLifestyle Hub - Employee Discounts Scheme – this scheme offers discounts at hundreds of high street retailers including supermarkets, high street stores, restaurants and many more, as well as providing information on a range of wellbeing topics, and access to discounts specifically for Queen’s employees.
Library Membership – Staff are automatic members of the Library at Queen's
For full details of the Total Reward package for staff, visit the People and Culture Directorate website .
Queen's Film Theatre – Independent film theatre on campus.
Staff ticket price available Naughton Gallery – Contemporary Art Gallery on the first floor of the Lanyon Building Recitals and performances – Recitals and concerts, many at lunchtime, from the School of Arts, English and Languages The Brian Friel Theatre – 120-seat studio theatre on campus Open Learning Programme – Staff concession available
Staff Networks at Queen's – established to connect staff and celebrate the diversity of our community.
Includes: Staff Disability Support Network; Parents Network; PRISM LGBT+ Staff Network; iRise BAME and International staff network; Carers' Network; Technicians Network; African Scholars Research Network; Research and Innovation Professionals Network; 'Iolra Morra More' staff network for linguistic diversity and minority languages; Queen's Communications and Marketing Staff Network.
Women's Common Room Club – open to Queen's staff and partners, and graduates.
Includes a Book Club; Gardening Group; and Experimental Cookery Club

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/brand:
Having a strong, vibrant and distinctive brand identity provides the framework to consistently showcase the University’s distinctive education and research strengths, build market visibility and brand reputation locally and globally and build pride internally.
It is a valuable asset and a mark of our quality so it is important that we manage our brand identity and how it is used.
If you are a Queen’s University staff member and need to use the brand for Queen’s-related communications, please access the brand toolkit using the links below and follow the advice in the Queen’s brand guidelines.
You can also contact the marketing team for help and guidance at creative@qub.ac.uk
If you are working on a partnership with a third party you must obtain permission to use the Queen’s University name, logos or trademarks from your Head of School.
If you are not a member of Queen’s staff, you must obtain permission to use the Queen’s University name, logos or trademarks.
Please contact the marketing team at creative@qub.ac.uk
Download the brand guidelines and find out who to contact for queries.
Get guidelines, branded logos, pop up designs, powerpoint and email signatures.
Get branded logos, icons, email signatures and stationary.
Get downloadable logos and images to promote yourself on social media.
Branded marketing materials to help you promote the University when attending and presenting at conferences.
Get contact details for the Strategic Marketing team.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/StaffInitiatives:
This section contains details about some of the staff initiatives you can get involved in.
A Bite of Queen's is a staff initiative that showcases the great work being carried out across Queen’s campus.
Series of lunchtime tours for staff to locations across campus.
Events are advertised on the weekly Staff Round Up and on the staff Twitter channel: @QUBstaff.
The Staff Wellbeing initiative offers a range of activities and events to support and enhance the health and wellbeing of staff working at Queen's.
Includes Queen's Staff Choir, £ for lb Challenge, Health Promotion events, Activity Programmes in collaboration with Queen's Sport, Wellbeing Training, Internal Mediation Service, Staff Counselling and more.
Series of sustainability initiatives and events for staff and students to get involved in to help reduce their environmental impact.
Includes Green Impact Scheme, Environmental Volunteering, Sustainable Travel Initiatives, Green Awards, the Great Queen's Bake Off, the Pedometer Challenge and more.
There are a number of opportunities for staff to get involved in volunteering and charity fundraising across the campus.
If you would like to fundraise on campus, please submit your request to m.macartney@qub.ac.uk for approval by the Charities Committee.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/RoundUp:
PDR at Queen’s provides a valuable framework for meaningful conversations, giving staff the opportunity to receive feedback, assess their progress against key priorities, and discuss personal development goals.
As we reach the end of the current academic year staff are reminded of the importance of planning and preparing for the Annual PDR, which all staff must complete.
PDR Skills learning events for reviewers and reviewees are available for booking via Employee Self-service with information in the following link:
The 2025 Leading Researchers programme is now open to applications.
Up to 24 spaces are available for researchers across the University to participate in this career development initiative.
The deadline for applications is Friday 29 August .
* This innovative training and development programme is designed for staff at the Reader/newly appointed Professor career stage.
Queen's Leading Researchers Programme 2025 is organised in partnership with 64 Million Artists.
As part of the ongoing Digital Transformation strategy, the University is launching a new research ethics management system – QUB Online Research Ethics Management (OREM ).
This online platform provides a single end-to-end system for the creation, submission, review and approval of research ethics applications .
The system will be rolled out to the University Faculty and School Research Ethics Committees (RECs) in a phased manner.
The onboarding will start with submissions to MHLS Faculty REC, followed by EPS Faculty REC and then all the AHSS School RECs, dates below:
Guidance documents and instructional materials will be available from 01 August 2025 at the QUB Ethics webpage .
Training will also be provided: sign up for one or more sessions here .
Further information
All queries regarding OREM should be submitted to: worktribeethics@qub.ac.uk .
A refreshed Cyber Security Awareness training course has been added to the staff online training portfolio, accessible under 'Courses & Requirements' on Queen's Online .
This training is designed to:
Feedback and engagement is encouraged throughout this process to ensure its effectiveness and relevance in safeguarding our digital environment.
For general enquiries or further information, please contact the Cyber Security team .
Cyber threats are constantly evolving, and many attacks today specifically target individuals through email, websites, and social engineering.
Even a single click on a malicious link can have serious consequences for the company, including data breaches, financial loss, and reputational damage.
At the end of this course, you will be pointed towards our new training partner’s website at https://uk.knowbe4.com/ where any subsequent courses will be hosted.
This will allow us to provide staff with additional ad-hoc training if and when required.
These will be sent to you via email notification from do-not-reply@knowbe4.com .
We are hoping to utilise this platform in order to gain a better understanding of the University’s Security Awareness Proficiency and know how to best target our efforts in the future.
Thank you for your attention to this matter and your ongoing commitment to maintaining a secure digital environment for our university.
A new fault/issue reporting facility for Access Control is now live and accessible to all staff via the Planon Staff Homepage .
This feature allows staff to easily report problems related to:
If you experience any problems, please use the new facility to log the issue directly.
As this is an entirely new facility, provided by Estates, we would ask for your patience and to allow additional time for issues to be resolved.
For further guidance, please visit the Planon Staff Homepage or contact the Estates Service Desk .
This is the final fortnightly Staff Round Up of the Summer 2025 schedule.
The next edition, resuming the weekly schedule, will be issued on Monday 1 September .
The University is currently recruiting to a number of positions internally.
Staff can view internal and external vacancies through iTrent Employee Self-Service .
National Protective Security Authority (NPSA), part of MI5, has recently updated its Countries and Conference Guidance .
The guidance is aimed at academics who are involved in international research collaborations and provides some useful advice within the Trusted Research space, including the main challenges presented when working or travelling overseas.
It is particularly relevant in the following situations:
NPSA also has a series of Implementation Scenario Videos , based on real events that have occurred in UK academia.
They have been developed by the NPSA and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), under the Trusted Research advice and guidance, as learning resources to help academics identify and mitigate research security risks.
The Student Engagement Team would like to ask for staff volunteers to support with meeting and greeting our new international students to Belfast, at Belfast City Airport, in September .
These are short shifts of about 3-4 hours or what you can spare.
Further details are given below.
All help is greatly appreciated.
Dates and approximate times:
Shifts are approximately 9.00am to 12.00pm, 12.00pm to 3.00pm, 3.00pm to 6.00pm and 6.00pm to 9.00pm, but any time that you could spare would be greatly appreciated.
Step away from your desk and into nature!
Join Active Campus every Wednesday this Summer for a stroll through the beautiful Botanic Gardens, taking time to relax, recharge and connect with colleagues in a scenic setting.
Staff are invited to a lunchtime Cyclescheme webinar on Wednesday 27 August from 1.00pm to 1.45pm.
The webinar will feature a tour of Queen's Bike Hub by Freedom Cycles, unveiling what is on offer for staff at Queen's, and information from Cyclescheme on how e-bikes can be purchased in an affordable manner.
This is a great opportunity to investigate the new e-bike commute to work.
Cycle+, operated by Cyclescheme, is Queen’s cycle to work scheme.
This scheme provides staff with the opportunity to obtain a tax-free loan via salary sacrifice, allowing staff to purchase bicycle and safety equipment up to the value of £3,000.
Find out about cycling savings available via Cyclescheme .
Staff can also find out more here .
Find out about Sustainable Travel at Queen's .
Contact the Sustainability team at transport@qub.ac.uk with any queries.
The following courses are available to support staff wellbeing within Queen’s.
Please register via iTrent Self-Service – search for 'Wellbeing' to see available courses.
As part of the UK Government's National Security Act 2023 , the Foreign Influence Registration Scheme (FIRS) came into effect on 1 July 2025.
Registration is mandatory if you are involved in an arrangement which meets all of the following four conditions:
Find out more here .
The University and the Students’ Union encourage all staff to familiarise themselves with our online reporting tool, Report and Support .
This system enables students to request support if they have experienced or witnessed:
There is also an option for staff or students to make a report on behalf of another student and anonymous reports can be made too .
Advice and Guidance for staff on supporting disclosures is available from the Safe and Healthy Relationships website .
Recent posts from Queen's Policy Engagement (QPol):
To contribute an article to Queen's Policy Engagement, please email Kevin at qpol@qub.ac.uk .
The Communications Office is hosting a virtual training session with The Conversation UK on Thursday 21 August from 10.30am to 12 noon.
This is open to all academics and researchers.
This interactive, online session will be led by one of the editors who will take you through what The Conversation is, its origins and aims, what it does, and why.
You will learn how to consider the news potential of your expertise, how to look for story hooks and angles from the news, and how to write a quality story pitch to section editors.
The Conversation is a news website featuring articles by academics, often republished to global media outlets.
Articles by Queen's academics published in The Conversation have been read by 23.8 million people internationally.
Read the latest:
First joining Queen's as a student and now, since 2018, a member of staff, Dr Leanne Henderson is currently a Lecturer in Education in the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
She is the Staff Forum Representative for PRISM – the University's LGBT+ Staff Network.
Queen's Staff Forum was established in June 2018.
Made up of representatives from each School, Directorate and GRI across Queen's , this group represents all of our people and provides an opportunity for staff to share their views on all aspects of working at Queen's, help shape the employee experience, and make a real difference for all who work here.
Colleagues are invited to join the Co-Centre for Climate + Biodiversity + Water in Westport, Co Mayo, on Saturday 23 August for a free series of talks exploring what a ‘clean’ river means to the local community.
From Saturday 16 August, attendees will also have the opportunity to view a striking new art installation launched into the Carrowbeg River.
All events are free and open to the public.
The Co-Centre for Climate + Biodiversity + Water addresses some of the most urgent challenges of our time: climate change, biodiversity loss and water quality decline.
Working across Ireland, Northern Ireland and Great Britain, the centre brings together 14 institutions and over 100 researchers in pursuit of its work.
Queen's University Belfast is the host university for the centre in Northern Ireland.
Staff are invited to view the summer edition of the School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work newsletter here .
If you would like to be added to the School's newsletter email distribution list, please email sseswmedia@qub.ac.uk .
Blog: GPT-5: It Just Does Stuff .
Support and information:
Details of ongoing works being carried out across the University campus can be found on the Estates Directorate webpage .
This week’s new and returning films at Queen’s Film Theatre, your cinema on campus.
Staff tickets are priced at £8.50 .
Staff and students aged 26 and under can join LUMI to get tickets for £6.00 every day, all year round.
Spaces are still available for the Naughton Gallery's next Silversmithing workshop, taking place on Saturday 23 August from 10.00am to 4.00pm.
No previous experience is required – just bring an apron and enthusiasm!
The workshop costs £50 per person.
Please contact art@qub.ac.uk to reserve your space and for further information.
Under the guidance of goldsmith Diane Lyness, each participant will be taught traditional jewellery-making techniques such as piercing, soldering, shaping, texturing, and polishing, to create a beautiful silver link bracelet to take home.
The Naughton Gallery's latest sports exhibition, 'CRYIN' AT THE GYM', continues until 7 September.
All are welcome.
The Gallery is open daily from 11.00am to 4.00pm.
Admission is free.
From fractured sculptures to bold photography, intricate collage to playful interventions, CRYIN' AT THE GYM explores how sport intersects with identity, community, and resistance.
Whether tackling themes of gender, race, politics, sexuality, or fandom, the featured artists use the aesthetics and iconography of sport to ask urgent questions about contemporary life.
Highlights include depictions of an all-female skate crew in Ethiopia, a confrontation of homophobia within football, and a psychological journey across the Merseyside football divide.
Olympic athlete Florence Griffith Joyner and NBA stars emerge as icons of athleticism and style, while also revealing the layered expectations placed on Black bodies in the public eye.
Elsewhere, Gaelic football becomes a site of political memory, and a basketball game turns sculptural with every point scored.
As part of Queen’s continued commitment to empowering managers to lead effectively through change, we have launched a bespoke Leading Change Toolkit .
The Leading Change Toolkit equips managers at Queen's with practical tools , insightful resources , and clear guidance to track progress, evaluate impact, and capture key lessons learned.
By using these resources, managers can refine their approach and proactively address emerging challenges throughout the change process.
All Queen's researchers are invited to express their interest in hosting an ‘Access the Expert’ session with relevant business leaders , helping to bridge the gap between academic excellence and real-world application.
As a leading voice in your field, you have invaluable insights that can drive innovation and solve pressing challenges facing business today.
Your expertise matters – share it with those who can put it to work.
These short collaborative sessions offer a unique opportunity to translate your research into practical solutions, while allowing you to gain fresh perspectives on industry needs and build professional networks.
Feedback from former ‘Access the Expert’ hosts:
Applications are invited for the SEDA Leading Education for Sustainable Development in the Curriculum programme.
The programme is open to Module Co-ordinators or Programme Directors, or members of staff who have significant influence over the curriculum development and design of credit-bearing courses .
The programme will run from September to December 2025.
Places are limited to 15.
Queen's Postdoc Showcase 2025 – 'Voices of the Future: Postdocs Shaping Tomorrow' – will take place on Friday 26 September from 9.30am to 6.00pm in the Canada Room/Council Chamber and Great Hall, Lanyon Building.
There is still time to register and submit an abstract for a poster/display.
The Postdoc Showcase is a celebration of postdocs and research staff at Queen’s University Belfast; come along to this year's showcase and discover how their research is helping to shape a better future.
The following events and survey are now open to Queen's postdocs:
Career Exploration Interview: Join the PDC for an engaging conversation and live Q&A with Dr Ana Sara Cordeiro, Senior Lecturer in Pharmaceutics and MPharm Programme Director at the Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Strathclyde.
From Lab to Planet: Making Research More Sustainable: This new interactive workshop explores how sustainability can be integrated into research practice, with a particular focus on laboratory environments.
Participants will gain insight into the University’s initiatives to embed environmental responsibility across research activities.
Survey: The PDC is eager to understand how they can most effectively support the career advancement of postdoctoral research staff at Queen’s.
Please take a few minutes to complete the short, anonymous survey.
Feedback will help the PDC tailor courses and activities to better meet your professional development goals.
The Safety Training programme for the forthcoming academic year is available on the University Safety Service Training webpage .
The full range of courses can be booked via iTrent Employee Self-Service .
Training sessions for September are given below.
All sessions are in person .
Please feel free to contact the University Safety Service at safety@qub.ac.uk or 028 9097 4613 should you have any queries or training requirements.
Due to an increase in spam sent from Google Groups, Digital and Information Services are making some changes to how emails sent from Google Groups are handled.
The spam score for Google Groups emails will increase and if the email also has other indicators, it is more likely to be identified as spam, and may be delivered to the Junk Mail folder.
In September 2025, we will begin phasing out SharePoint Alerts in Microsoft 365.
By July 2026, all SharePoint Alerts in Microsoft 365 will be fully retired and will stop working.
To submit an item for Round Up, please email details to roundup@qub.ac.uk by 1.00pm on the Thursday before the Monday edition in which they are to appear.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/News/Queens-Achieves-Seventh-Consecutive-Green-Flag-Award.html:
Managed by Keep Northern Ireland Beautiful, and running internationally in 18 countries, the Green Flag Awards set the benchmark national standard for and recognise excellence in the management of our public spaces.
Winners are judged on the overall quality of green space and the work that goes into keeping grounds in pristine condition.
This year’s NI Green Flag Awards were held in the Bangor Walled Garden on Wednesday 13 August.
Ian Duddy, Director of Estates at Queen’s, commented:
“We’re thrilled that Queen’s has once again met the high standards of the Green Flag Awards.
“To be recognised for seven consecutive years highlights the dedication and teamwork of our staff and community partners in preserving green spaces and built heritage for our staff, students and the wider public, it’s incredibly rewarding to see our efforts consistently acknowledged at a national level.”
Queen’s received positive feedback from the Green Flag Awards auditors; in particular, they mentioned the inclusivity and welcoming nature of the University’s main site and highlighted the well-maintained buildings and surrounding landscapes on campus.
Media enquiries to Queen's Communications Office via email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/News/queens-researchers-awarded-north-south-research-funding.html:
The funding was announced by Taoiseach Micheál Martin TD and Minister for Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science, James Lawless TD.
The allocation of €16 million in funding has been awarded to four major cross-border research collaborations between higher education institutions in Ireland and Northern Ireland, with each of the selected projects receiving up to €4 million over a four-year period.
Queen’s is a partner in three of the four selected projects, covering cybersecurity, language and identity, and Parkinson’s disease research:
Speaking about the funding awards, Professor Sir Ian Greer, President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University Belfast said:
“This significant investment in cross-border research will enable Queen’s researchers to work alongside colleagues across the island of Ireland to tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our time - strengthening our cyber resilience, deepening cultural understanding, and improving the lives of people living with Parkinson’s disease.
I congratulate my esteemed colleagues on these awards and look forward to seeing the outputs which will b enefit society across this island and further afield.”
The investment is delivered through the second call of the North-South Research Programme (NSRP) , administered by the Higher Education Authority (HEA) .
The initiative is a key pillar of the Irish Government’s Shared Island strategy, advancing an all-island research agenda that strengthens cross-border ties and delivers real, lasting impact for communities across Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The projects were chosen following a highly competitive process involving 131 applications from 17 higher education institutions, evaluated by international experts.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/News/queens-national-teaching-fellowship-2025.html:
The NTF Scheme, organised by higher education charity Advance HE, is a highly competitive scheme that recognises and celebrates individuals contribution to excellent teaching in higher education in the UK.
This year's cohort represents the largest number of National Teaching Fellows ever awarded, reflecting the exceptional quality of teaching talent across the sector.
The 2025 recipients from Queen’s are Dr Kevin Morgan from the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, and Dr Gary Mitchell MBE from the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
Dr Kevin Morgan is a Senior Lecturer and prides himself on being a dedicated educator within the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering at Queen’s.
His internationally recognised work advances inclusive STEM education through curriculum innovation, outreach, and advocacy.
A Senior Fellow of Advance HE and staff representative, he drives systemic change that empowers underrepresented learners, reshapes policy, and inspires cross-sector educational transformation.
On receipt of the accolade, Dr Kevin Morgan said:
“I’m truly honoured to receive a National Teaching Fellowship.
For me, teaching is never just about delivering content - it’s about opening doors.
Whether it’s through designing innovative and inclusive learning experiences, embedding sustainability, or widening participation, I have the privilege of doing work I care deeply about, alongside colleagues who share these values.
“My passion lies in helping people realise their potential - supporting learners, mentoring colleagues, amplifying underrepresented voices, and breaking down barriers to inspire the next generation.
This award is not just a recognition of my work, but a reflection of the broader commitment to making science and education accessible to all.”
Dr Gary Mitchell is a Reader in the School of Nursing and Midwifery and is widely recognised for his transformative contributions to healthcare education.
A registered nurse since 2010, Gary entered higher education just seven years ago and now combines his clinical experience with academic innovation to reimagine how nursing is taught, supported, and valued.
He has led curriculum developments across undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, supporting diverse student cohorts through inclusive, flexible, research-informed approach, and his leadership has shaped initiatives that enhance student belonging, digital literacy, and real-world application.
His career accomplishments reflect not only his commitment to education but his belief in the power of nursing to lead, influence, and drive change.
Dr Gary Mitchell commented on the recognition:
"It’s a real honour to be awarded a National Teaching Fellowship.
I came into higher education just seven years ago from a clinical background, driven by a passion to make nursing education more inclusive, research-informed, and relevant to real-world care.
“This recognition reflects not just my work, but the collective effort of incredible students, colleagues, and collaborators who share a belief that education has the power to transform practice and improve lives.
I’m proud to be part of a profession, and a university, that values innovation, equity, and educational excellence."
Professor Judy Williams, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Students at Queen’s, said :
“I am delighted to celebrate both Kevin and Gary’s achievement and thrilled that their expertise has been recognised nationally.
This is a highly competitive award with 61 National Teaching Fellowships awarded across the sector this year.
It is testament to the high calibre of Queen’s teaching staff that we have received two of these awards.
“Our two Fellows have dedicated their careers to improving the lives of the students they teach and work with, and they all have used innovative ideas and engaging techniques to enhance learning and student success, and it is important that their hard work and dedication is recognised and celebrated.”
For media enquiries, please contact comms.office@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/News/new-senate-appointments.html:
Baroness Gray, Pro-Chancellor, is widely recognised for her distinguished service in UK and Northern Ireland public life, including as Chief of Staff to the UK Prime Minister and Permanent Secretary at the Northern Ireland Department of Finance.
She currently serves as Chair of Consello, UK.
With decades of senior public service experience, she is widely respected for her integrity, leadership, and expertise in governance and ethics.
Commenting on her appointment, Baroness Gray said:
“Queen’s holds a special place in the heart of Northern Ireland and plays a vital role on the national and international stage.
“I feel deeply committed to supporting its mission of excellence in education, research and civic engagement and hope my experience in public service will contribute to its strong governance and uphold the values that has made Queen’s such an important institution for generations past, and those yet to come.”
Dr Feargal McCormack has also been appointed as Pro-Chancellor and will serve as the Deputy Chair of Senate and Chair of the Senate Planning, Finance and Resources Committee.
He said:
“It is a privilege to serve Queen’s University, an institution that has had a marked impact in my own personal and professional life.
“Higher Education holds such transformative power and I am honoured to take on this role at such a pivotal time.
I look forward to supporting the University’s leadership and contributing to positive change for our students, staff and wider society.”
Dr McCormack is currently Senior Partner at AAB Group and a former President of Chartered Accountants Ireland.
He brings vast experience in financial governance and a long-standing commitment to higher education and civic leadership.
He currently serves on several Queen’s governance committees, including the Investment Committee and the Governance and Nominations Committee.
Ms Anna Beggan and Mr Lyle Watters have been appointed as independent Lay Members of the Senate.
Ms Beggan is a former Partner at Tughans Solicitors with extensive experience in employment law and has previously served on Queen’s Audit Committee.
Mr Watters is a former senior executive at Ford Motor Company with almost four decades of international leadership and board-level experience across global markets.
Welcoming the appointments, Dr Len O’Hagan CBE DL, Pro-Chancellor and Chair of Senate, said:
“These are outstanding appointments that will strengthen the governance and strategic direction of Queen’s.
As senior non-executive officers, our Pro-Chancellors play a crucial role in upholding the highest standards of accountability and leadership.
I am delighted to welcome Dr McCormack and Baroness Gray to these vital roles.
I am equally pleased to see the addition of Ms Beggan and Mr Watters to Senate their knowledge, judgement and commitment will be invaluable.
I also want to acknowledge the important role played by staff and students throughout this rigorous and inclusive selection process.”
Professor Sir Ian Greer, President and Vice-Chancellor, added:
“Effective governance is essential to the success and integrity of global university.
With these appointments, Queen’s gains individuals of exceptional distinction and experience who share a deep commitment to public service and the advancement of higher education.
I look forward to working with our new Pro-Chancellors and Lay Members of Senate, as we deliver our ambitious Strategy 2030.
“My sincere thanks to the Special Selection Committee and to all those across the University who contributed to this process.
These appointments reflect Queen’s commitment to excellence in governance, inclusivity in leadership, and its enduring mission to serve society through education, innovation, and civic engagement”.
These non-remunerated appointments take effect for four years from 1 August 2025 following an extensive selection process involving students, staff, alumni and independent assessors.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/staff-blog/blog-being-a-staff-carer-at-queens-my-experience-abbie-edgar.html:
A blog by Dr Abbie Edgar, Researcher Development Consultant, Thomas J.
Moran Graduate School.
I work as a Researcher Development Consultant in the Thomas J.
If you’re not familiar with what that means, in practice, my job revolves around supporting both Master’s and PhD students as they navigate the various challenges of academic life.
Most days, you’ll find me running workshops, offering 1:1 appointments, and generally doing my best to equip students with the skills they need for their research journey - whether that’s academic writing, time management, or preparing for their key milestones.
When I’m not supporting students, you’ll find me keeping active (which is my favourite way to unwind!).
I love swimming, attending kettlebell classes at the PEC, or heading out for walks.
My most recent favourite spot has to be the Blackhead Coastal Path.
The stunning views and fresh air do wonders for my mood.
At home, I have my own built-in de-stress team: my husband Neil, our two dogs Rosie and Larry, and our two cats, Sienna and Finnick.
There’s never a dull moment, and they’re a big part of how I stay grounded and resilient.
On a more personal note, I’ve recently taken on the responsibility of caring for my Mum.
Sadly, my lovely Dad passed away on the 11th of October 2023.
Until then, my Mum and Dad cared for each other, so now I help look after my Mum with everything from personal care to shopping and medications.
Balancing work with caring responsibilities can be tough, especially since I’m the main person supporting my Mum.
It’s often difficult to take personal calls during the workday, as I’m usually meeting with students or teaching.
That means a lot of my caring tasks have to be squeezed in before and after work.
I count myself lucky to have a fantastic support system at the Graduate School.
My line manager, Donna Hyland, and the whole team are always there to help when I need it.
Sometimes that means I need to work from home more often, and my colleagues are always understanding and flexible.
Queen’s has been amazing when it comes to supporting staff carers.
I’ve been able to take Carers Leave when needed, and after my Dad passed away, I was given the chance to have a phased return when I was ready to come back to work.
That flexibility made a world of difference in helping me find my feet again.
I was recommended to join the Carers CONNECT staff network by a colleague who spoke very highly of it, and I’m so glad I listened!
CONNECT has opened up so many supportive opportunities, from the Mindful Carers Programme with Action Mental Health to holistic therapies and friendly coffee mornings.
There’s plenty more on offer, and I’m looking forward to getting involved in more activities in the future.
If you’re a staff carer at Queen’s, I would wholeheartedly recommend joining CONNECT.
It’s been such an uplifting experience, giving me a real sense of community and practical support.
Whether you’re looking for advice, some time out for yourself, or just a friendly face to talk to, CONNECT has something to offer.
Balancing work, caring, and life isn’t always easy, but with the right support, it’s definitely manageable.
You are not alone.
CONNECT ( C aring for O thers N etwork - N urturing, E mpowering and C ommunicating T ogether) meets regularly either in person or via Teams.
It provides an opportunity for staff to socialise and seek advice from colleagues who have lived experience of the issues they are facing.
More information .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/staff-blog/blog-going-greater-heights-friends-of-the-cancer-centre.html:
A blog by Professor Peter Robertson, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion).
This year is the 40th anniversary of Friends of the Cancer Centre, which is a local charity supporting cancer patients and their families in Northern Ireland.
Friends of the Cancer Centre fund a broad range of initiatives, including: providing free tea and coffee to patients attending clinics at the Bridgewater Suite in Belfast City Hospital and the North West Cancer Centre in Altnagelvin Hospital; funding Clinical Nurse Specialists; and supporting cancer research in Northern Ireland.
They also engage in fantastic work around raising cancer awareness throughout the country.
Importantly, too, Friends of the Cancer Centre have set up day rooms in the Cancer Centre and ward 6 in the City Hospital, where patients can spend time away from their beds with their families.
Since my own diagnosis with myelodysplastic in 2018, a rare blood cancer, myself and my family have had direct support from Friends while I have been both an outpatient and an inpatient at Belfast City Hospital.
I, therefore, wanted to give something back to this charity as a token of my appreciation for all their support and kindness.
I had previously undertaken the 'Take on the Tower' abseil down Belfast City Hospital in 2022 and 2023, but I felt it was time for a new challenge and that I needed to go to greater heights, so I signed up for a 15,000 ft Tandem Skydive with Skydive Ireland who are based in Garvagh.
I successfully completed the Skydive on Saturday 17 May.
The day itself was fantastic – in terms of weather conditions, we had cloudless blue skies and warm sunshine, which doesn’t happen that often in the North West.
My wife, Jeanette, and my son Keir came up to watch my jump.
My brother Paul and his wife, who live in the North West and one of Paul’s friends also joined us on the day, so I had a brilliant team supporting me.
The Team at Skydive Ireland were awesome and took me through the various training and guidance around what to expect, with calm professionalism.
In particular, a big shout out for my instructor and tandem 'Skydive Buddy', Simon, who was absolutely brilliant and kept me calm and focused and made the whole thing really fun and enjoyable.
The flight up to the jump height was awesome, as there wasn’t a cloud in the sky, and Simon provided a commentary on the various sights we could see out the window.
Once at 15,000 ft, the door was opened and the various skydivers started to disembark.
Simon and myself were last out, and when I was sitting on the edge of the plane at the door waiting to go, I was overawed by the views.
Next thing I knew, we were free-falling, and it was one of the most exhilarating experiences I’ve ever had; the speed and noise of the wind were phenomenal; I was informed that you can reach speeds of up to 120 mph in the free-fall descent.
After about a minute, the parachute was deployed, and everything became really quiet.
At that point, Simon let me take control of the parachute.
I was able to see from the west coast of Ireland right across to Scotland, although I couldn’t quite see our old home in Aberdeen.
Simon then took control again, and we had a perfect landing, all down to Simon’s experience and professionalism.
The most rewarding part of the whole experience, however, was the immense generosity of my supporters through my JustGiving page, and I raised over £4,400 for Friends of the Cancer Centre.
The Chief Executive of Friends of the Cancer Centre put this into context in a comment on a post I made on LinkedIn about the jump.
This funding was enough to cover more than 167 hours of a clinical Nurse Specialist, or 17,498 cups of tea or coffee.
The Clinical Nurse Specialist is a particularly important person in a Cancer patient's life.
They really get to know you as an individual, genuinely understand what you go through and are often your first point of contact outside clinics, so it was very special for me to know that the funding can continue to support these great individuals.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Christine, Ciara and Ana from Friends of the Cancer Centre for their support with the arrangements for the skydive and the associated fundraising.
I’m still on quite a high following the jump, and if anyone is thinking of doing a skydive for charity, I would thoroughly recommend it.
To be honest, it was actually less scary than the abseiling was!
Donations are still warmly welcomed in support of my fundraiser and can be made here .
All contributions will help fund the vital work the charity does to support local people living with cancer.
To find out more about the important work of Friends of the Cancer Centre, please click here: www.friendsofthecancercentre.com .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/staff-blog/blog-new-chapter-student-support-queens-accessible-learning-support.html:
A blog by Will Plunkett, Disability Services Manager, Accessible Learning Support.
We are excited to unveil a transformative change that marks a new chapter in student support: Disability Services has officially rebranded as "Accessible Learning Support." This fresh identity isn't just a new name – it's a renewed commitment to reach out to more students than ever before, especially those who may have felt hesitant to seek help in the past.
The journey to this change began with listening to student voices.
We learned that some students were reluctant to engage with the previous Disability Services, because they did not identify with or associate themselves with the term "disability." To address this, we embarked on a research and consultation process.
We engaged with a wide range of stakeholders, including the Centre for Educational Development, the Students’ Union, Staff Wellbeing, the Disability Forum, and even prospective students at our DS Offer Holder event.
"Accessible Learning Support" was the name that resonated most, reflecting our commitment to inclusivity and the exceptional services we provide.
But the changes don’t stop at the name.
We understand the challenges students face in obtaining diagnoses – long waiting lists and delays can be significant hurdles.
We’re committed to making support more accessible, particularly for students facing challenges in obtaining medical documentation or awaiting a diagnosis.
One of the most significant updates is that students who are struggling to provide medical evidence are no longer required to submit it when first completing their questionnaire.
While we still encourage submitting documentation to help tailor the best possible support, we’re removing unnecessary barriers to ensure that every student who needs help can get it.
These updates are more than just procedural tweaks – they’re a bold step towards ensuring that all students at Queen’s feel empowered to seek the support they deserve.
Accessible Learning Support is here to provide a welcoming, stigma-free environment where every student can thrive.
With these changes, we’re not just opening doors; we’re holding them wide open for all.
Find out more about Accessible Learning Support .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/StaffGateway/staff-blog/ni-apprenticeship-week-luka-fuchs-apprentice-technician.html:
A special blog for NI Apprenticeship Week by Luka Fuchs, Apprentice Technician, Centre for Public Health.
I've always had a passion for technology, and the desire to shift my career towards IT led me to pursue an exciting opportunity as an IT apprentice at Queen’s.
Becoming an IT apprentice at Queen’s was a brilliant opportunity as it allowed me to get straight into the workplace, allowing me to gain hands-on experience in the IT environment and rapidly learn practical skills relevant to IT and computing.
This was appealing to me as I do not have any previous professional experience working in IT, so it’s amazing to be able to jump right in.
Being an apprentice has provided stability and security for my career change, as there is the opportunity for permanent employment after completing the apprenticeship.
This sense of security has been greatly appreciated, offering me more stability moving forward.
The IT and networking industry is fast-growing and ever-changing, so it’s a great sector to get involved in for a range of different opportunities.
Within Queen’s, there’s a wide variety of IT-related departments, and taking this apprenticeship has allowed me to experience and appreciate many niches.
This was inspiring, as it’s clear there are many further development opportunities at Queen’s within IT.
Working as an apprentice technician is often quite varied.
We have many responsibilities, so there is a lot to learn.
Primarily, we assist staff with IT-related problems and support.
This can include helping users understand how to use the Queen’s online systems, providing technical advice, and repairing or addressing any IT-related issues.
For example, we occasionally perform repairs to broken hardware by replacing components that are causing issues.
We are also in charge of overseeing the distribution and use of computers by staff and making sure everyone has the equipment they need for their work.
Another key aspect of the role is helping to maintain the university’s systems, such as keeping the servers running and ensuring the printers remain operational.
The servers run the online services such as the Queen’s portal, storage, and the VPN.
Security is a large concern throughout all the IT infrastructure, so it’s frequently updated with recent security patches and any existing vulnerabilities are mitigated.
Since the work is quite varied, every day is different, and I never know what challenges I will face which makes working as an apprentice technician always interesting and exciting.
Within my role, I enjoy that I get to work with many different people on a day-to-day basis since I provide support and advice to my colleagues.
Queen’s is a great place to work as it’s very lively and active.
It’s such a large organisation with so much going on.
I enjoy meeting new people and it’s very interesting to see what they do within the university.
This also often provides the ability to network and collaborate with people at Queen’s and work on projects together to improve systems or aspects of Queen’s infrastructure.
For example, I recently worked with a colleague who oversees updating the website for our department, and I agreed to help edit some media to be put up on the website.
This potential for collaboration ensures I often get to work on interesting new tasks through which I learn new skills and expand my abilities.
One of the proudest moments in my apprenticeship has been when I’ve been able to solve complicated problems and apply what I’ve learned without needing assistance.
I have a mentor, Steve, who helps me learn the job and often shows me how to carry out tasks.
It is satisfying when I’m able to complete more complicated tasks without help because it means that I have managed to improve at my job and develop.
One occasion of this is when there was a computer that would not boot.
I troubleshooted the issue and tried various fixes until I eventually managed to resurrect the PC by reconfiguring the BIOS.
It was a satisfying job as it required figuring out what the issue was and then figuring out how to fix it.
I hope, that as I gain more experience, I will become better equipped to handle unique and challenging cases like this.
An apprenticeship at Queen’s is worth seriously considering.
It is a great way to get a head start and get involved in an industry that can otherwise be difficult to break into.
It is a large commitment, as it can, at times, be challenging to balance studying and learning with practical work, but it is very rewarding and there is no better way to learn than to apply yourself to the work.
There are many benefits to an apprenticeship at Queen’s, including brilliant opportunities for growth and further career development, as there are so many exciting projects happening at Queen’s all the time.
In this environment, you will experience many aspects of your industry, giving you a better understanding of the whole range of applications and pathways available to you.
Undertaking an apprenticeship can be incredibly worthwhile and satisfying.
If you think it’s the right thing for you then don’t hesitate to get stuck in.
Good luck!

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/EstatesDirectorate/TheWeekAhead:
The Estates Directorate will do everything possible to manage the impact of works and we hope that they do not cause you too much inconvenience.
If you have any comments regarding noise, please contact us on ext.5005 or email estates@qub.ac.uk .
Major Works projects and Minor Works projects will be taking place this week.
Major Works projects include the new Seamus Heaney Centre, Peter Froggatt Centre, One Elmwood, 26-50 Mount Charles and Geography.
Minor Works projects include work at PEC, 69 – 71 University Street, 92 Lisburn Road, Queen’s Boathouse, ECIT and Elmwood Learning Teaching Centre (ELTC).
For more information, please see the drop-down menus below.
Possible Impact: Some noise, personnel movement and delivery of materials or plant, temporary restrictions to parking and pedestrian access.
Possible impact: Noise, personnel movement and delivery of materials.
Possible Impact: Noise from scaffolding erection and increased personnel in area.
Possible Impact: Redirection of limited pedestrian traffic through ground level and temporary furniture relocation.
Possible Impact: Noise from power tools and construction workers in the areas.
Works are set to begin on the Global Institute of Educational Excellence (GIEE) with completion expected by mid-September 2025.
The scope of the project includes:
Possible Impact: Increased contractor activity on-site, noise from power tools and construction workers in the areas.
Possible Impact : Increased activity, dust, noise, vibration, personnel movement and delivery of materials.
The building will be vacated for the duration of works.
Major Works projects include work at the MBC.
Minor Works projects include work at the MBC, RVH and Mulhouse.
Possible Impact: Noise from power tools, delivery of materials and contractor activity on site with construction workers in the area.
Possible Impact: Noise from power tools and increased personnel in area.
Possible Impact: Increased activity, dust, noise, vibration, personnel movement and delivery of materials.
The group study rooms will be out of operation for the duration of the work and will not be available on the booking system.
Major Works projects include work in the David Keir Building (DKB), Elms BT2 & BT9 and Grant House.
Minor Works projects include work in David Keir Building (DKB), 7 Lennoxvale, NI Technology Centre and Ashby.
Signage and temporary barriers within DKB quad will remain with access to ground level, block 3 restricted.
The Ground Floor accommodation will not be operational until Spring 2026.
Possible Impact: Noise, personnel movement and delivery of materials.
Possible Impact : Noise from power tools and contractor personnel in area.
Possible Impact: Personnel movement and delivery of materials across the footpath on Malone Road.
Possible Impact: Noise, personnel movement and lorries removing earth from the site.
There will be localised power shutdowns which will affect Level 1 labs, this will be communicated with the end users impacted accordingly.
There will be an increase in car parking used by the contractor during the work.
Possible impact: noise, dust, vibration and machinery movement.
Belfast Region City Deal project works will be taking place this week on the new Institute of Research Excellence for Advanced Clinical Healthcare (iREACH Health) site.
Possible Impact : Potential for noise from power tools, hammers, generator etc.
Temporary road closures may be required.
Possible Impact: Site access is being manned by contractor’s staff overseeing deliveries.
Some noise and vibration from manoeuvring machines.
Possible Impact: Sections of footpath to Claremont Street and Camden Street may be periodically closed and temporarily diverted.
No works will be taking place this week.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/welcome-centre:
The Queen's Welcome Centre is a Northern Ireland Tourist Board Local Information Office for South Belfast.
It serves as an information point for visitors and tourists, as well as offering a varied selection of souvenirs and gifts.
Queen's University runs its own academic costume hire service and this can be used by students, staff and local schools and colleges for ceremonial use.
For all enquiries, please contact us via email.
Email: gownhire@qub.ac.uk
Call us today on 028 9097 5252 or email queens.welcomecentre@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/agreement25:
The focus of the world was on Belfast as global political leaders past and present arrived in Belfast to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement (B/GFA) in April.
The three-day conference was hosted by Queen's University Belfast in partnership with the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils, the Council on Competitiveness, Women in Business, Politics in Action, Commission for Victims and Survivors, the Lyric Theatre as well as Hillsborough Castle, where supporting events also took place, including a programme for schools.
Clinton, were among the global leaders participating in an international conference to mark the 25th Anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement at Queen’s University.
Watch the events again or read our special Staff Blog series featuring thoughts and reflections from a range of Queen's University Belfast leaders and experts on the progress of the past 25 years , as well as on the significance of the Agreement 25 conference and the University's role in helping to shape a better future locally and globally
Day One of the conference included three panel discussions with the architects of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement in 1998: the UK and Irish governments, local political leaders from 1998; and the Guarantors (former UK, Irish and US Administrations).
Catch up now with a roundup of Day One events.
The afternoon was dedicated to a number of academic panel sessions delivered by The Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice at Queen's University.
These panels discussed themes including Rights and Social Justice, Peacebuilding, Legacy, The Dynamics of Peace and Conflict, and The Impact on Victims.
Catch up now with a roundup of Day Two events.
Day Three was hosted in association with the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils.
Northern Ireland Vision 2050 focused on enhancing the economic prospects of Northern Ireland, and included addresses from senior government officials and panel discussions with both local and global business leaders.
Catch up now with a roundup of Day Three events.
Included a “Civic Voices - How the Referendum was won” panel and a screening of “The Agreement” co-production by Queen’s University and Fine Point Films.
Hosted by Queen's University Belfast in partnership with the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils, the Council on Competitiveness, Women in Business, Politics in Action, Commission for Victims and Survivors, Lyric Theatre, and Hillsborough Castle, where supporting events also took place, including a programme for schools.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/students/one-elmwood:
One Elmwood brings Student Services and the Students’ Union together under one roof—creating a space where support, study, and social life seamlessly blend from your first question to your final year.
Access expert guidance on wellbeing, accessibility, academic skills, careers, and finance.
Get SU advice on housing, money, and academics, and explore clubs, volunteering, enterprise, or student representation.
Catch up with friends, study in tech-friendly spaces, grab lunch from the SU Shop, enjoy a pint in the Union Bar, or take in a live gig at Mandela Hall—all in one vibrant, student-focused space.
One Elmwood is the home for the Students' Union which provides you with vital support, opportunities to socialise and take part in activities; all to help you make friends and develop your skillset during your time at Queen’s.
From hanging out with friends over a coffee, studying in a tech-friendly space, meeting up with others from your club or society, to grabbing lunch from the Union Shop, to enjoying a pint in the Union Bar, or going to a gig in the Mandela Hall – your new Students’ Union is buzzing with activity.
Read: Your Guide to the SU
Find out all you need to know about your Students’ Union at q-su.org .
The Student Services in One Elmwood provides you with advice and support every step of the way on careers, student wellbeing, learning skills, widening participation, finance, disability and visa/immigration.
Whatever your query, there is an expert team in One Elmwood ready to support you every step of the way, online and in person, personalising your experience.
Meet them for yourself in our video.
Support and Services
The One Elmwood Student Engagement Team is here to support you on your student journey.
You will find us at the Student Information Point on the first floor at One Elmwood.
Types of Appointments: Wellbeing, CV Checks, Careers Consultations, Academic Skills, Disability, Visa/Immigration support, and Finance and Fees.
Student Services: Key Contacts list
Student Engagement Team
The University has entered into a partnership with Hendersons to create a cutting edge retail outlet in One Elmwood.
With features that include a deli/hot food to go bar, Barista coffee and a wide range of locally produced goods, the store has something for everyone.
Updated Opening hours.
Week beginning 2nd June: Monday - Wednesday (7:30am - 8pm) Thursday - Friday(7:30am to 5:30pm), Saturday (9am to 4pm), Sunday (Closed).
Your local, open 7 days a week serving up fantastic food, tasty drink offers and free entertainment every night during term from quizzes, bingo, club nights, live sport and much more!
Find The Union Bar on the second floor and check out the fabulous outdoor terrace.
The Mandela Hall is our state of the art new venue and features a host of entertainment from the Queen’s Comedy club to live music, podcasts and much more.
What's On and Food Menus
Social is a continental style café bar with a wholesome food menu catering for the changing tastes and trends of the entire student population.
Artisan coffee and grab and go items will be available for those in a rush.
Check out their menu here .
Opening Hours Monday to Friday 8.00am to 3:00pm.
The new building is sustainable, accessible and meets the needs of our students and staff by being:
The building is also equipped with:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/TheLibrary/UsingtheLibrary/StudyingintheLibrary/GroupStudyRooms:
Queen's libraries provide a large number of Group Study Rooms to facilitate and encourage collaborative work.
These rooms provide discussion and study space for small groups of students and are equipped with a computer and either a plasma screen or projection facilities.
Each study room is equipped with a PC, projector and projector screen.
McClay Library - 34 rooms (31 for group study and 3 for individual study), plus two study pods.
Medical Library - 3 rooms: all for group study; room 1 and 2 (capacity 6), room 3 (capacity 4).
Room 3 has an interactive electronic whiteboard.
Biomedical Library - 7 rooms: 5 rooms for group study (capacity 5) and 2 rooms for individual or parent/child study.
The rooms are numbered sequentially in a clockwise direction on each floor
We are currently piloting an introduction of bookable desks within the McClay Library.
Eight bookable desks have been introduced in Silent Reading Room C on the Ground Floor.
These can be booked for 1-3 hours, in the same way as Group Study Rooms.
McClay Library: Bookings are for an hour, on the hour.
A maximum of three consecutive hours may be booked on any one day.
Medical Library: Bookings are for an hour, on the hour.
A maximum of 4 consecutive hours may be booked, Monday to Friday, according to opening hours.
Biomedical Library: Bookings are for an hour, on the hour.
A maximum of 2 consecutive hours may be booked, Monday to Friday, according to opening hours.
Group study rooms are in high demand so it is important to cancel the booking if it is no longer required.
This can be done either via Queen’s Online or using the link on the booking confirmation email.
If a room is not occupied within the first ten minutes, the entire booking is forfeited and the room is made available to other students.
Students with a Disability
Advanced booking of study rooms is available to students who may, for example, need to work with a support provider, use assistive technology , or who are particularly sensitive to noise/lighting.
Referrals are made from the University’s Accessible Learning Support .
Reservations should be made at least 48 hours in advance.
Parents are welcome to bring their children into the Library as long as they are closely supervised at all times.
Advanced booking of the individual study rooms is available to parents who wish to spend time studying in the building whilst accompanied by their child.
Reservations should be made at least 48 hours in advance to the Library Office .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/Student/StudentComputing:
Queen's Online is the staff and student portal that shows a bespoke view for the user of their, for example, timetable, modules, print balance and library loans as well as key applications including Email, Microsoft 365, Teams, OneDrive, Canvas and IT Support.
If you are a current member of Queen's you can access Queen's Online using your student/staff number and password.
As a student at Queen's, you automatically get assigned a Microsoft License, and this license gives you full access to a whole suite of Microsoft Applications.
Access the Microsoft Portal for email and other apps.
Visitors to the University can connect via The Cloud at the following locations: Whitla Hall, Great Hall & Welcome Centre, Students' Union The Space, Queen's Film Theatre, Queen's Sport (PEC) Café, Queen's Sport Upper Malone, The Elms Village Treehouse, INTO (Lennoxvale).
Students and Staff should continue to use "_QUB_WiFi", which is the University's primary wireless service.
Visitors from other institutions should use "eduroam".
Visit our WiFi page for details on how to connect your device to the appropriate WiFi network.
The University realises that access to IT support and a suitable computing device is crucial to the student experience.
Information that will help you with getting a device to support you studies and with getting online, advice on choosing a device, examples of suppliers offering discounts and importantly sources of support that exist within the University can be found on our getting a device advice page.
Laptops are available to borrow from The McClay Library, Biomedical Library (MBC) and Medical Library (RVH) for use within those Libraries.
They have full wireless network access and have the same facilities as the computers in the Student Computing Areas.
When you borrow a laptop, ensure you attach the charger and safely plug it into a mains point, on a desk.
Ask at the Borrower Services Desk in the Biomedical or Medical Libraries, or, in The McClay Library, use the self-service lockers on the ground floor.
To operate the self-service lockers in The McClay Library, swipe your Student Smart Card in front of the reader and one of the locker doors will open (if a laptop is available).
Remove the laptop and close the locker door.
To return the laptop when you have finished with it, shut it down , rather than simply log off.
Swipe your card again and the locker door will open.
Replace the laptop and close the locker door.
All students should be able to work in a pleasant and quiet environment, therefore when you enter a library or SCA:
It is a disciplinary offence to allow someone else to use your smart card or login details!
Make sure you read the Student Computing at Queen's - Acceptable Use Guide .
Evacuation and First Aid
Make yourself aware of the first aid points and evacuation procedures in all buildings.
In the case of an emergency, a continuous warning bell will ring and you should leave the building immediately.
Any accident or sudden illness should be reported to the Borrower Services Desk (if you are in one of the libraries) or to any member of staff and assistance will be provided.
The IT Training and Assessment Unit have collated a wide range of training materials that are available to all students and staff to help them use IT in ways which make them more effective and efficient in their work and studies, SMART workers!
Workbooks and exercises (Office 2021, SharePoint and others) developed by Queen's staff are available from the IT Training Unit Sharepoint site .
All staff members and students have automatic access using their Queen's Online credentials.
More information about IT Training can be found at IT Training and Accreditation and IT Training Courses .
Postgraduate Research students may attend IT courses as part of the Researcher Development Programme ( PRDP ).
Courses are also offered to Postgraduate Taught students, contact pg.centre@qub.ac.uk for more details.
The International Certification of Digital Literacy ( ICDL ) is an internationally recognised qualification.
Queen's University is an accredited ICDL test centre, operated by the IT Training and Assessment Unit, and offers ICDL and ICDL Advanced to current staff and students.
Find out more about it at ICDL/ICDL Advanced .
Information Services provides printing, copying and scanning facilities, in full colour and black & white (mono) across campus.
Known as multifunctional devices (MFDs) they are available in all student computing areas, typically the libraries and Peter Froggatt Centre (PFC) and in selected staff areas.
All library and PFC MFDs are colour capable.
Undergraduate and PGT students pay for printing and copying, scanning is free of charge.
UG and PGT students must have sufficient credit on their PaperCut account before they can access the service.
Any MFD can be used by staff or students.
More details is available on our Printing, Copying and Scanning page .
Cyber security is how staff, students and Queen's University Belfast, working together, reduce the risk of cyber-attack.
Cyber security's core function is to protect the devices we all use (laptops, computer, tablet and smartphones), and the services we access, from malicious attacks.
It's also about preventing unauthorised access to the vast amounts of information we work with on a daily basis.
For latest information on cyber security visit Get Safe Online.
For more information on how Queen's recommends you protect your device, as well as advice on password management, please visit our page on Cyber Security .
Please also take the time to ensure you have read the Security Policies and Acceptable Use Guidance.
Queen's Students can purchase software and other products direct from suppliers at reduced prices:
‌ Note: These promotions are operated by third party suppliers and Queen's University accepts no responsibility for the content of links to external websites or products purchased from external sites.
Listing and linking should not be taken to be an endorsement of the products or companies.
Microsoft OneDrive
All students have secure personal storage allocation of 20GB on OneDrive in the Office 365 Cloud.
You can access OneDrive from any device, share your files and synchronise OneDrive with your laptop or home PC - see Microsoft 365 @ Queen's for more information.
Students also have personal space on the Queen's Q: Drive which they can use on campus.
Make sure you save your work before you log out.
USB Storage
Data transfer using USB devices is blocked (that is the ability to read and write, copy, move or execute files) via USB ports on student computing PCs.
Student computers affected includes those located in all libraries and common Student Computing Areas: The McClay Library, Biomedical Library Medical Biology Centre (MBC) & Medical LIbrary at Royal Victoria Hospital, QUB Accommodation, Student Guidance Centre, AFBI Library (AFBI HQ, Newforge), QUB library laptop loans All common Student Computing Areas, including, PFC Floor 3, The Graduate School and INTO @ Queen’s.
Malware and Virus Prevention
USB devices, such as pen drives, can be a vector for malware and viruses.
Blocking USB data transfer can reduce the risk of malware spreading from infected USB devices to the University network.
Retrieving Data from USB Device
If students need to retrieve data from a USB device (pen drive, external hard disk etc.), if on campus, contact the IT Service Desk on the Ground Floor of the McClay Library or the MBC.
Computer Assistants.
They can assist with uploading your desired content from your USB device to your Queen’s OneDrive account.
If at home, or off-campus, access OneDrive from office.com and sign in with your student credentials.
You will be able to upload new files to your OneDrive, which will then become retrievable from any PC/device with internet access.
See Upload and save files and folders to OneDrive - Microsoft Support
Current Purpose of USB Ports
While data transfer is blocked, users can still use the ports to charge their devices, and in some cases, use USB headphones where a data connection is not required.
Students can login Microsoft Outlook or the Queen's Online Mobile App to access their Queen's email.
You will need your student number and password to log in.
NOTE: You cannot automatically forward emails from your Queen's account to another email account.
You are required to read and use your QUB email account to communicate, and receive communication from the University.
Please read this good advice about writing emails in an article by Corrigan Paul T, Hunt McNabb, Cameron (2015) "Re: Your Recent Email to Your Professor".
Email Address Format Student email addresses are generated by adding the first letter of each of the student’s given names to the student’s family name and adding to this a 2 digit number.
Examples of student email addresses are as follows:
If you get offensive email If you receive email, the content of which is offensive, threatening, obscene or otherwise "harmful" then do not respond to it, rather report the matter to abuse@qub.ac.uk Please remember to retain the message for investigation.
The Student Computing Areas (SCAs) situated throughout campus offer computers and space for independent study or to work on assignments.
Computer Assistants are available to support staff/students in these computer areas throughout the University.
These assistants are easily accessible and conveniently located to deal with front line computer related queries at the busiest periods during the day.
Students should also take note of the information which is regularly uploaded on to plasma screens and computer screensavers in the Student Computer Areas.
This information will highlight new IT facilities, promote good IT practices, advertise student activities etc.
Bookable Group Study Rooms are located in The McClay Library, Biomedical Library (MBC) and Medical Library (RVH).
They are all  equipped with a PC and whiteboard.
This table shows the usual opening times of the SCAs during semester.
These are subject to change .
Please check the notices in the libraries and SCAs for details of the current opening hours.
Check out the library pages for information on library opening times during and outside Semester.
Note that if there are no available spaces or PCs in the McClay library, please avail of those in the other Student Computing Areas.
Student Computer PCs - List of Applications
Other software may be available within your School - contact your School Computing Officer for advice.
Alternatively, the applications available on the SCA PCs is also available, plus more, via Queen's Student Desktop .
Note: Students are not permitted to install software on the PCs in the SCAs.
Check out the Study Spaces in Each Building .
Assistive Technology is available for students with disabilities and additional support is also provided by the Library.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/ash:
Assessment is an integral part of student life, and, at times, it can be a challenge to navigate everything involved.
The University’s Assessment Support Hub is your one-stop-shop to access support for your assessments, helping you to understand assessment processes at Queen’s and get the right support to help you succeed.
Find out more from Student Ambassador Kathryn Allen, a QUB student studying in the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences.
There is also a dedicated corner of the Hub for postgraduate research students which outlines the various assessment milestones that support progression, leading to the final assessment (viva).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/enrolment-and-registration:
The majority of courses for Academic Year 2025/26 will open for registration as follows:
Monday 1 st September at 10am: New Undergraduate Students
Wednesday 3 rd September at 10am: New and Returning Postgraduate Students
Thursday 4 th September at 10am: for Returning 2nd Year Students, and 2pm: for Returning 3rd Year and Above
All the details you need are listed below:
You will receive a Welcome email which will include such details as your student number and password.
This will also give dates of when the Qsis Registration Portal will be open for you, and you should commence the online part of the registration process as soon as you have access to the portal.
You can log on to QSIS using the credentials details included in your Welcome email – the username is your student number, and the password is the one listed in your email.
It is recommended that this password is used to complete all steps of the registration process – if required you can then change your password by clicking on “Change Password” on your Queen’s Online account.
If you are an international student, you will be able to complete the online registration up until the immigration document check stage.
A hold will be in place until Immigration Support Service carry out a document check.
Part of this process will involve you uploading pictures of your current immigration documentation – these will then be checked by the Compliance Team in Immigration Support Service.
When the check is complete the hold will be lifted allowing you to continue with online registration.
It is recommended that you periodically check the Registration Portal to find out if the document check has been completed and if you are able to continue with the registration process.
The next steps of registration are selecting modules and finance i.e.
how you are paying your fees.
If you have any issues with module selection or the financial step of online registration please watch our instructional videos here or  raise a service request for support via https://myportal.qub.ac.uk/
You can watch instructional videos for each step of enrolment and registration here .
If you are a new student to the University or starting a new programme of study, you will complete Online Registration and must also complete Matriculation to be fully registered.
This is the process of verifying your identification and qualifications.
Please ensure you apply for any required documentation well in advance.
Students complete matriculation on campus, as this process includes the issue of your student ID card.
A photograph will be taken during this appointment.
If you are completing on-site matriculation you must book an appointment at our Registration Centre in advance, unless your School has already made an appointment on your behalf.
Please check your Queen’s emails before booking an appointment.
Registration will take place at various venues throughout the semester - please refer to your Welcome email or appointment booking for the current registration building.
Booking links will be provided on the final step of Online Registration in Qsis.
For students completing matriculation please bring original physical documentary evidence of entrance qualifications (except where these are an award issued by Queen’s University Belfast or provided directly by UCAS) and a certified English translation where applicable.
Scans or photos will not be accepted in person.
Acceptable documents would include parchments or certificates, transcripts, official signed and stamped letters of confirmation from an institution's Registry Office, as examples.
You must present an approved form of identification (listed below).
No other forms of identification will be accepted
UK/ROI Students : All documents from one of the groups.
A current UK/ROI passport
An original Deed Poll or marriage certificate to evidence a change of name, if applicable.
Original Full Birth Certificate issued in the UK which includes the name of at least one of the holder's parents AND
An original official document issued by a Government Agency or previous employer giving the student’s National Insurance Number and name e.g.
National Insurance card; Letter from HM Revenue & Customs about Tax or Tax Credit; Letter from Job & Benefits Office; P45 or P60; Payslips; AND
Current Driving Licence issued in the UK or the Republic of Ireland AND
Original Full Birth Certificate issued in the Republic of Ireland which includes the name of at least one of the holder's parents AND
An original Deed Poll or marriage/civil partnership certificate to evidence a change of name, if applicable.
No other forms of identification will be accepted.
EU Nationals with settled/pre-settled status: Passport, indefinite leave to remain permission, and a share code provided by the government so that we can verify your status.
Further information about share codes can be found here: https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status
All other International Students: Passport and Immigration Documentation
All other international students will need to supply any current immigration documentation you have at present and complete the arrival questionnaire link you have been sent.
Immigration Support Services staff will then check these before allowing you to proceed and complete your registration.
Immigration Support Services will contact you if they require any further information prior to completing the check.
Once you have completed all stages listed above you will be fully registered with Queen's.
Successful completion of all stages of registration will be confirmed to you by email to your Queen's email address.
You can also check your status at any time by logging into Qsis and checking the Registration Tile.
We will begin sending out the Welcome email from QUB Student Helpline to your personal email address in late August.
Your Welcome email may be delayed due to late admission into the University, public holidays or extenuating circumstances.
If you have not received your Welcome details before your classes start, please contact us via the Student Helpline.
If it is your personal details (name, date of birth, home address), we will amend the student records system once you have verified your identify with us during your matriculation appointment.
If any other changes are required, please log a request via https://myportal.qub.ac.uk/
This will only happen if you were a previous student at the University.
You can find information on how to reset your password here: https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/Services/ITServiceDesk/sspr/
Queen's Portal (Service Requests) - https://myportal.qub.ac.uk/
Queen’s Email - owa.qub.ac.uk
Queen’s Online (QOL) - qub.ac.uk/qol
Queen’s Student Information System (Qsis) - qsis.qub.ac.uk
Canvas canvas.qub.ac.uk
Your username is your student number.
The password should be a mixture of letters and numbers (case sensitive).
This applies to your Queen’s email, Queen’s Online (QOL) and Queen’s Student Information System (Qsis).
It is advised that you change your password after you complete registration.
If you are a new student or starting a new course, and you have not yet presented your Matriculation documents in person, you will be required to do so if or when you first study on campus.
Your student card will be issued at this stage.
You will need to present your identification documents and original physical qualifications in person, a photo will be taken and your student card will be issued.
If you have exceptional reasons for not meeting the deadline to register, you may approach your School Office directly to enquire if an extension may be requested on your behalf.
Requesting an extension is not guaranteed to be approved, and will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
There are some video guides about how to complete registration : E&R Videos | Academic & Student Affairs | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
If you need further help with your registration steps please use the contact details below to Raise a Service Request, Email or Phone us.
Can't find the information you are looking for?
Qsis is the Queen's University Student Information System which holds all core details about a student's classes, fees, enrolments, admissions, transcripts/HEAR and the Future-Ready Award for the University.
Find out more about QSIS.
Throughout your time at Queen's you may require an official University letter, some of which may need to be personalised, such as a letter to open a bank account or to apply for a visa, if you are planning on visiting another country.
When applying for a GP registration, National Insurance Number, or a driving license, you can use your Student Status Letter.
Further details on the types of forms and letters available can be found below.
We can provide a letter for your bank to confirm that you are a Queen's University Student.
The staff at the Student Information Point, First Floor, One Elmwood can stamp and authorise certain documents to confirm your student status and attendance at Queen’s University.
These can include:-
Any form that requires confirmation of payment or fee amounts should be emailed to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
Student Registry in One Elmwood can provide a variety of letters which include:-
Find out more about Attendance and Education Letters
A Confirmation of Attendance letter can be used to confirm your student status and can be used for various reasons e.g.
to open a bank account, confirm attendance to a Sponsor etc.
A letter can also be produced for any local or on-line bank with the exception of Bank of Ireland and Barclays.
Please note - With the exception of DSA forms a student is required to be fully enrolled before a form can be stamped or a letter produced.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/pre-semester-engagement:
Get ready for Queen’s!
While it's not compulsory, we’ve got activities and events that will help you meet new people, get involved and start your university journey right.
📅 Your School Welcome Timetable will be with you in early September.
In the meantime, these events are open to everyone who's in Belfast before classes start — and during the first few weeks too.
Come through, meet people, and get settled in!
For key dates and deadlines, check out our Student Timeline .
Make the most of your university experience with our dedicated resources.
Preparing for Queen’s & Welcome and Orientation
Please note: Event details are subject to change and we’ll be adding more events over the summer (like the Graduate School).
So, keep checking back for updates.
Dates: 8/09/2025 - 12/09/2025 Time: 11:00AM - 2:00PM Location: The McClay Library Category: Information Event
Date: 8/09/2025 Time: 1:00PM - 4:00PM Location: The Cube, One Elmwood Category: Social
Dates: 9/09/2025 - 11/09/2025 Time: 10:00AM - 12:00PM Location: Training Room 6, Graduate School Category: Information Event, Lecture / Talk / Discussion
Date: 9/09/2025 Time: 10:00AM - 12:00PM Location: One Elmwood, Ground Floor Reception Category: General / Other, Social
Date: 9/09/2025 Time: 11:00AM - 2:00PM Location: The Cube, One Elmwood Student Centre Category: Social
Dates: 9/09/2025 - 11/09/2024 Time: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Location: PEC Queen's Sport Category: Sport / Recreation
Date: 10/09/2025 Time: 9:30AM - 1:00PM Location: Mandella Hall Category: Social, University Event
Date: 10/09/2025 Time: 12:00PM - 3:00PM Location: Lanyon Category: Social
Date: 10/09/2025 Time: 2:30PM - 4:00PM Location: Pick up outside main gates of Lanyon Building Category: Information Event, Social
Date: 11/09/2025 Time: 9:30AM - 1:00PM Location: Mandella Hall Category: Community Event, Social
Date: 11/09/2025 Time: 2:00PM - 5:00PM Location: The Cube, One Elmwood Category: Community Event, Social
Date: 11/09/2025 Time: 2:00PM - 5:00PM Location: One Elmwood, Ground Floor Reception Category: Information Event, Social
Date: 12/09/2025 Time: 11:00AM - 2:00PM Location: Elmwood Hall Category: Social, University Event
Date: 12/09/2025 Time: 2:30PM - 4:00PM Location: Pick up outside main gates of Lanyon Building Category: General / Other, Information Event
Date: 15/09/2025 Time: 2:00PM - 4:00PM Location: Pick up outside main gates of Lanyon Building Category: Information Event, Social
Date: 15/09/2025 Time: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Location: Across Queen’s campus Category: General / Other, University Event
Dates: 15/09/2025 - 9/09/2025 Time: 1:00PM - 3:00PM Location: One Elmwood, Ground Floor Reception Category: General / Other, Social
Dates: 15/09/2025 - 19/09/2025 Time: 11:00AM - 3:00PM Location: The McClay Library Category: Information Event
Dates: 16/09/2025 - 18/09/2024 Time: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Location: PEC Queen's Sport Category: Sport / Recreation
Date: 18/09/2025 Time: 10:00AM - 12:00PM Location: Student Lounge, McClay Library Category: Lecture / Talk / Discussion, Social
Date: 19/09/2025 Time: 6:00PM - 8:30PM Location: Whitla Hall Category: Fair, Social, Sport / Recreation
Dates: 22/09/2025 - 26/09/2025 Time: 11:00AM - 2:00PM Location: The McClay Library Category: Information Event
Dates: 23/09/2025 - 24/09/2024 Time: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Location: PEC Queen's Sport Category: Sport / Recreation
Date: 23/09/2025 Time: 7:00PM - 9:00PM Location: McClay Library - Auditorium Category: Social, University Event
Date: 8/10/2025 Time: 10:00AM - 12:00PM Location: Meeting Room 1, One Elmwood Student Centre Category: Information Event, University Event
Date: 22/10/2025 Time: 2:00PM - 4:00PM Location: Meeting Room 1, One Elmwood Student Centre (First floor opposite The Cube) Category: Information Event, University Event
Date: 28/10/2025 Time: 2:30PM - 4:30PM Location: Meeting Room 1, One Elmwood Student Centre Category: Information Event, University Event

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/arriving-in-belfast:
We're looking forward to welcoming you to Queen's University Belfast.
Register for Airport Welcome
The University will be operating an airport welcome at George Best Belfast City Airport on the following dates during September 2025 between 09:00 – 21:00 .
(Subject to change)
During the airport welcome our university ambassadors will direct you to appropriate methods of transport to help you reach your onward destination.
( Please note - we will direct you to a bus or taxi service, we do not provide this service.)
Please complete this form with your arrival details to help us with our meet-and-greet service and if you aren't arriving on our arrival dates we will provide you with travel advise from the airport.
Keep an eye on this page and follow us on Instagram for updates.
The approximate cost of a taxi to Belfast City Centre with one of our approved taxi providers is as follows:
The approximate costs for Public Transport options are as follows:
The journey time from Belfast City Airport is around 15 minutes and from Belfast International Airport about 30 minutes.
If you are travelling outside of these dates, you will need to make your own way from the airport.
This is very easy to do from both airports (Belfast City and Belfast International).
We recommend taking a taxi, as this way your driver can take you exactly where you need to go.
Please note the approximate cost of a taxi to Belfast City Centre from Belfast City Airport with our approved taxi provider is approximately £15.00 (including a £2 surcharge) and from Belfast International Airport with our approved taxi provider is approximately £35.00.
You can pay your taxi driver with a credit/debit card.
When completing our online form, please let us know how best we can assist you.
If necessary, we can arrange a taxi to take you to your accommodation.
There are private taxi companies in Belfast which offer airport collection services.
It is best to book these services in advance.
For Belfast International Airport, you can use you can use Value Cabs or Belfast Airport Taxis.
For Belfast City Airport, you can use Value Cabs.
Value Cabs Belfast Airport Taxis
The approximate cost of a taxi to Belfast City Centre with one of our approved taxi providers are as follows:
Packing to live and study in another country can be an exciting and scary time so our students have put together this useful guide for you:
Read: 29 Things you Need when Moving into Queen's Accommodation
You should also read UKCISA's blog for students which is full of tips and essential information on packing, your arrival at the airport, and planning your onward journey:
Read UKCISA's helpful blog

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/listing/corporateflightfromuncertaintyandbusinessdynamismdrmirceaepureuniversitatpompeufabra.html:
QUEEN’S BUSINESS SCHOOL INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS, ENTREPRENEURSHIP & MARKETING (IBEM) SEMINAR SERIES
Wednesday 3 rd September
2pm
“Corporate Flight from Uncertainty and Business Dynamism”
Dr Mircea Epure
Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Abstract
We examine the impact of corporate headquarters relocations prompted by institutional uncertainty on business dynamism.
We show that firms relocating their headquarters due to the 2017 Catalan independence referendum accounted for a quarter of the total assets in the region.
New firm entry rates declined in the region after the referendum, and new ventures exhibited lower growth in total assets, sales, and employment.
Notably, within the region, new business entry rates declined less in the areas from which large firms relocated, suggesting fewer occupational opportunities.
However, the growth of these new businesses was even lower.
These results are stronger in industries with lower market concentration (indicating lower entry barriers), in nonmanufacturing activities (requiring lower initial investment in fixed assets), and in the areas from which more internationally oriented large firms relocated.
Regional shifts in entrepreneurs’ characteristics support our conjecture that new businesses entered due to necessity rather than opportunity.
Finally, we show that firms relocating their headquarters maintained a distinct, market behavior and outperformed over the business cycle.
Collectively, our findings reveal how institutional uncertainty and headquarters relocations reshape regional business landscapes and entrepreneurial dynamics.
QBS Student Hub, Entrepreneurial Hub 01.028

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/events/whats-on/listing/librarywelcometoursdaily.html:
The McClay Library will be offering in-person Welcome Tours throughout September.
Led by the Library’s Customer Experience Team, each tour will last approximately 30 minutes.
These tours are designed to help new students get to know the McClay Library - including its study spaces, facilities, services, and resources.
You'll learn how to find materials, borrow books, use the printers, and where to go for help.
Tours are limited to 15 participants on a first-come, first-served basis.
Please join the tours at the McClay Library Reception Desk.
Dates and times will be as follows :

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/FromMesmerisingCircuitstoMochaMomentsATermFullofBelfastMemories.html:
MSc Electronics student Veena provides a snapshot of her life at Queen's and in Belfast, from working on circuit boards to enjoying coffee breaks on campus.
A circuit is said to be completed only when all the wires are connected, just like student life at Queen’s where each lecture, lab and late night chat adds thrill to my experience.
As an Electronics student , my days are just as beautiful as buzzing bees on sunflowers - filled with rhythm and energy.
A journey of joy, laughter, love and learning, soldered into the heart of Queen’s.
I usually wake up around 7:00am to the refreshing buzz of my alarm.
My day begins with a warm bed tea followed by a healthy breakfast to fuel up.
I always walk to campus, which doubles as my morning cardio.
My backpack is packed with essentials: a laptop, charger, notebook, calculator, and of course, a few snacks to get me through the day.
My week is a mix of lectures and hands-on project work.
One of my favourite subjects is Microelectronics, and those lectures usually begin at 9:00am.
The lecturers are incredibly supportive, and the advanced teaching methods help keep our concentration fully engaged throughout the sessions.
Almost every day around 11:00am, you’ll find me at my usual coffee spot - Starbucks - sipping on my all-time favourite mocha.
It’s the perfect break to relax and catch up with friends.
We chill together within our beautiful campus, which blossoms like the prettiest flower nestled in nature.
Queen’s truly feels like the heart of Belfast city - alive, welcoming, and full of charm.
After break time, around 12:00pm, I head towards the McClay Library - the ideal place to work on my project.
The library offers excellent facilities, including personal computers and a wide range of books that guide me through the process of developing my circuit-related work.
In the evening, I enjoy roaming around Belfast city centre for a bit of shopping, often with my favourite ice cream from Mackles - home to some of the tastiest flavours around.
After that, my friends and I take a relaxing walk towards the iconic Big Fish , soaking in the cool breeze and the beauty of this vibrant city.
After a busy day, dinner time is the most enjoyable part of the evening.
My friends and I come together to try out new recipes, cooking with laughter, fun, and plenty of chit-chat - a perfect way to unwind from the hectic day.
The dining table fills with a variety of delicious dishes, and we take pride in appreciating each other's cooking skills.
After dinner, the fun continues with light-hearted conversations and jokes.
After that, I head to my room - a classic and cosy space decorated with sticky notes, Polaroids, and a few lovely flowers that help calm my mind.
Before going to bed, I go through my to-do list, wrapping up the day with a peaceful sleep - cuddled up with my teddy.
Why Queen's for Postgraduate Study
Information for students from India
India: Your Student Guide
I’m a postgraduate student at Queen’s University Belfast, studying Electronics Engineering.
Originally from the vibrant city of Bangalore, India, and currently based in Belfast, I’ve always been curious about what goes on behind the scenes - both within the hardware of our devices and the technologies that keep us digitally connected.
This fascination led me to pursue engineering, with a focus on embedded systems and digital design.
Outside of my studies, I love singing and going for long walks, which help me relax and truly enjoy life in Belfast.
I also have a passion for travelling across beautiful countries - experiences that broaden my perspective and bring a sense of calm to my mind.
I’m always eager to learn something new -  whether it's exploring a new programming language or improving my soldering skills.
I look forward to gaining practical industry experience that will allow me to make a meaningful impact.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/StressManagementGuideforStudentsBeforetheNewAcademicYear.html:
Anthropology and English student Natasha provides some useful tips for dealing with stress and anxiety before the new semester.
Whether you’re a fresher or a student returning to university to continue your studies, anxiety about the academic semester ahead is common, and also, inevitable.
Stress can potentially arise from various areas/circumstances, some of which you can point out, and others are just inexplicable emotions.
While it is easier to say that every other person is just as overwhelmed, and everything is going to turn out just fine, your feelings of disorientation do not immediately disappear.
Your experience is unique to yourself, even when many others are in the same boat.
I am here to reiterate some words you might have heard elsewhere: Nothing is as bad as it seems.
It gets better.
You are going to figure this out.
With that little motivational boost (which I understand does not suffice), here are some useful tips to help you deal with all kinds of stress before the start of the new academic year:
Going out and breathing the fresh air could significantly reduce stress levels for students.
You could ask someone you know to tag along or if you enjoy your own company, you have the freedom to wander by yourself, take in the scenery, and feel the world around you deeply.
You can carry out wellness walks in parks, gardens, coastal paths, and any other local spaces.
‘Me Time’ is a lot more important than you would think.
We are humans and while we all have our own methods to recharge, this one could be yours.
So try it out!
VLOG: How to deal with stress as a student
Pay attention to what you are feeling at the moment.
Whether it is the taste of the food you are eating, or the the sound of an ice cream van nearby, being more in touch with the sensory world around makes you feel grounded and in control of your emotions.
Take time to meditate, and to reaffirm yourself.
One thing that has always helped me is journalling.
When I let my burdening emotions unravel in the form of words, everything becomes less scary.
If this is something that has not worked out for you in the past, you can always talk to a friend.
Speaking aloud about what has been bothering your mind is a great way to find relief.
Tapping into your creative side might be a little difficult, especially after spending months on exam preparation, university applications, internships, navigating personal life, etc.
But once you get into it, it can be your biggest stressbuster.
Whether it is painting, pencil sketching, writing poetry, or other forms of art which you once enjoyed, rekindling your passion for creativity would help you gain peace while enduring stressful moments.
This could even be something as simple as colouring in your adult colouring book (as proven helpful by recent research).
Queen's has over 200 clubs and societies , including the Art Society
As students, we can be very easily intimidated by our peers and friends who might be in a different phase of life, more qualified, skilled, or successful.
This comes from a real place and can lead you to doubt yourself, or even cause your self-esteem to plummet.
Remembering to not compare yourself to others around, is a vital step that should be prioritised by every student.
Do not benchmark another student.
Be kinder to yourself.
While this measure might seem obvious, it is also the one that is highly neglected.
7 - 9 hours of sleep must be mandatory in your schedule.
Ensure that you are always well-rested.
Maintain a balanced diet (include a lot of protein and fibre), and give your health the importance and respect it deserves.
Also, carry a water bottle around to stay hydrated.
Try to be physically active as much as possible.
BLOG: Tips for Staying Fit and Healthy on a Student Schedule
If the tasks lined ahead of the next academic year is a contributing factor to your stress, try to stay organised.
Break down your to-do list into manageable chunks, tick them off consistently, and come up with a plan to not overwork yourself.
Packing for uni, arranging the finance, applying for visa if you are an international student, and all the other million things you need to get done can feel impossible at times, and that is valid.
But you will get through this if you remain organised!
Things to know before coming to Queen's!
I hope the above-mentioned tips would help you become more relaxed as you prepare for the year ahead, and made you feel at least a little less lost.
Help is always available, and the wellbeing service at Queen’s are truly there for you, no matter how big or small your concern is.
And once you begin at university, your tutors and professors would guide you all the way through academically.
Furthermore, peer mentors are known for making your uni experience fun and smooth!
So try to worry less about things you cannot control, and have a great year ahead!
Student Wellbeing Service
Dealing With Social Anxiety While at University
Five Things That Seem Scary at University - And How to Deal With Them
I'm an undergraduate student pursuing Anthropology and English at Queen's.
Originally from Chennai, India, I've now moved to Belfast for my studies.
In my free time, I like to write poetry, and I've self-published my own collection ('Subdued Cries' on Amazon).
I'm an aspiring novelist and I hope to inspire people through my writing journey.
I also journal, and am fond of frolicking (or taking calming walks) through parks and gardens.
I'm extremely passionate about reading and my current favourite is The Secret History by Donna Tartt.
I'm constantly looking for ways to improve my personal and professional skills, and hope to gain meaningful experience during my time here at Queen's.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/VIDEOStudentPerspectiveIsBelfastReallyAffordable.html:
International student Malavika gives a breakdown of her weekly budget while living in Belfast; and provides some student cost of living tips.
Sign up for Translink discount card
Find out more about The Pantry
Student living costs
Indian student life at Queen's
Hi!
Em here and greetings from the realms of caffeine fuelled study nights and research.
I'm on a quest for achieving my Masters in Human Resource Management.
When I'm not lost in the labyrinth of books and research papers, you can find me penning down my artworks and editing content.
My superpower is that I am a master of multitasking and an expert in the art of procrastination fuelled productivity (Just kidding XD).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/ADayintheLifeofaWelshPsychologyStudentatQueens.html:
Welsh student Niamh describes a day in her life as a second year Psychology student at Queen’s University Belfast - balancing academic demands, meeting friends and society events.
With student life at Queen’s being so full of fun things to do, I never find it hard to fill my time between lectures with fun Queen's society and club events, as well as wider social events in Belfast.
This blog covers what I get up to on a typical busy week day at university.
After waking up and a quick stretch, I had a shower to get myself ready for the day.
I made breakfast with my flatmates and ate out on the fire escape, enjoying a bit of fresh air and making the most of a day when it wasn't raining!
We had bagels with fruit and fresh coffee - so yum.
As I live only 10 minutes from the main Psychology building, I get an extra few minutes of sleep each morning, which makes me feel so lucky!
I live in private housing with two of my friends, and we put lots of effort to decorate the house together at the start of the year so it feels so cosy.
Getting to live with friends in our own house has been my highlight of second year.
My day was looking busy with lectures and lab classes in the afternoon so I prepared a salad to bring with me.
I always try to bring a packed lunch with me rather than buying out!
It’s such an easy way to save money and means I end up eating a few more vegetables than if I bought lunch out.
I packed my bag for the day bringing my laptop, a planning journal (which I use to keep on top of my studies and social plans), my pencil case, an umbrella in case the weather turns as Belfast can be quite rainy, my lunch and some snacks for the day.
I left the house to walk to my 9am lecture at the David Keir Building.
My walk to lectures passes the Lanyon Building, which I always love looking at because it’s so old and beautiful.
It always makes me feel so happy walking past the iconic Queen’s building.
It’s so easy to get around the university campus as most of my classes are within a 10 minute walk from my house.
This lecture was from the Core Psychology module of Developmental Psychology and covered the development of gender identity and self identity in children.
I took notes on my laptop and built upon the material that was available from the lecturer on the digital platform of Canva.
I am extremely passionate and interested in Developmental Psychology, so this lecture was incredibly relevant and interesting.
I had an hour break in between the morning lecture and the afternoon lab, so I used this time to meet my friends at Blue Train Coffee and Depot .
As Blue Train is right next to the university, full of beautiful art and has the friendliest staff, it’s a firm favourite with students and is my personal favourite place in all of Belfast.
There is something so relaxing about sinking into the big sofa at the back of the shop, drinking a delicious coffee surrounded by eclectic mismatched but beautiful furniture.
This is a weekly class that covers practical applications of theoretical data analysis learnt earlier in the week in Statistics lectures.
The opportunity to open SPSS on the computer and work through data analysis step by step with the small group supervision from PhD students and lecturers is really beneficial for research methods exams and research report based assignments.
I ate my packed lunch in the mid-way break in the lab at the Psychology student common room.
I studied at the McClay Library , using this time to read relevant scientific journals for an upcoming assignment, creating notes that I will use to write the literature review for the report.
As the main library for the university there are so many different spaces to choose from, from whisper zones, group study rooms where you can freely talk and large silent study areas.
I chose to study in the silent zone by the windows overlooking the Botanic Gardens, with such a nice view I feel a little connected to the wildlife while I study.
After nipping home to drop off my bags and get changed into activewear, I headed to the Queen’s PEC to meet a few friends for the Legs and Kegs run club .
As a new Queen’s sports club, Legs and Kegs run a social 5km run each week (the Legs) and finish with a pint after (the Kegs), and I really love going each week with my friends as I always meet new people.
We finished the run at Lavery’s pub and had a social pint there.
Run clubs like these are such a nice opportunity to meet new people and always have such a social, friendly atmosphere.
After a shower back at home, I made a quick dinner of pesto pasta with rocket and feta.
Just adding a few extra toppings can really elevate a simple university meal.
I chose my outfit, did my makeup and hair ready to go out to a Surf Club Social .
I love that the university socials don’t need you to be hugely dressed up so you can easily go in jeans.
I went over to the Queen’s University Students' Union for the Surf Club Social which was being held there.
It was a mixer event with lots of the members of the club and it was such a fun night.
With a very relaxed vibe at the outside terrace area of the SU bar , it was a great opportunity to catch up with friends, play some cards and meet some other students who had similar interests as me.
I went home and got into bed, ready to sleep after a very busy day!
Psychology at Queen's
Information for GB students
Your Student Guide
Hi, I’m Niamh, a Psychology student from Cardiff.
I love studying at Queen’s and love to share my passion for the University by working as a Student Ambassador.
I’m the social secretary of the Queen's Surf Club and am always busy sea swimming, hiking and doing social runs.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/ADayintheLifeofanInternationalHumanRightsLawStudent.html:
Managing my degree, two jobs, and my role as Captain of QUB STAR took some time to perfect, but all the hard work has definitely been worth it.
Here’s a look at a typical day for me...
I believe that it’s really important to create a routine that works for you, as well as strike a balance between study, work, rest, and fun.
I’m really not a morning person, but I’ve found that making my bed straight away, enjoying my breakfast, and taking my time getting ready sets me up for a much more positive, relaxed, and structured day compared to hitting that snooze button until the very last minute!
I’ll check up on messages and emails, as well as complete a Duolingo Spanish lesson.
I’m lucky to live in Crumlin, which is half an hour away from Belfast .
Depending on my plans that day, I’ll get the bus into Belfast City Centre and walk up to Queen’s, getting my steps in along the way, or I’ll drive to Antrim Train Station, using their Park & Ride to get to Botanic.
I’ll bring my own cup to the Thomas J Moran Graduate School and use the supplies there, but if I want to treat myself, the Junction in the School of Law and Coop in Botanic Gardens are really great spots close by.
In town, my new favourite order is a vanilla latté with a shot of marine collagen from Black Sheep Coffee , just beside Belfast City Hall - get the glow and thank me later!
One of my favourite classes this year was Theories of Human Rights.
It was split into two parts; the second of which saw us divided into groups and assigned a question on a particular topic.
We discussed it between ourselves, and the tutor was always on hand to help develop our ideas before we presented our findings.
I especially loved studying contesting histories, which I chose to write about for the module’s exam, achieving my second highest mark of the year!
My highest mark was awarded for a paper I’d written on the ticking time bomb exception as a justification for the use of torture against suspected terrorists - I’ve found that this year has allowed for deeper exploration of very niche areas of interest, as well as more self-directed and in-depth reading and study on the things that interest me.
I head straight to the Graduate School; a beautiful space that I feel so privileged to use.
I’ll write up my notes and then get ahead with work that I need to do for that week.
It’s great to always be ahead of the game, and chip away at my dissertation - exploring the roles of visual commemoration in campaigns for truth and justice in the context of legacy issues and the Troubles .
This is another project of niche interest, with self-directed study and self-management.
I find setting weekly goals helpful to hold myself accountable, as well as checking in with my supervisor.
It’s important to take study breaks and time away from your desk though: walking through Botanic Gardens is a favourite.
Some days, I’ll get changed and head straight back out for a walk, spin class, or gym session, which I find great at clearing my head.
Other days, I’ll have Teams calls with my QUB Student Action for Refugees Committee.
As Captain, it’s difficult to find days and times that suit everyone, but regularly checking in and preparing our projects really does pay off.
We’ve achieved incredible things this year, which you can read more about in my piece for the School of Law’s page .
One of them is Anaka’s GCSE Volunteering Programme, which I set time aside for every week, using Zoom to help friends from refugee and asylum seeker backgrounds with GCSE English study and exam prep.
After a hot shower and dinner, as a family we can be found around the TV, checking in with each other and chatting about our week.
Friday evening: My boyfriend Caoimhín and I have set aside our Friday evenings to visit the Avenue Cinema .
Their pizza, popcorn, pints, and cocktails are the perfect companions to great films!!
Weekends: Caoimhín and I love to go to Cliftonville matches, but we’ve also travelled to Dublin for the Bohs and Glasgow for our beloved Celtic!
We’re also big Zach Bryan fans, so a weekend in Dublin for his show in Phoenix Park was just incredible.
We also love to travel, and count ourselves lucky to return to the Farnham Estate to get away for a few nights.
We’ve also been to Amsterdam and Rome, and we’re planning our next holiday for after my dissertation submission.
Can’t wait!
Work: I’m very lucky to have worked for Stena Line throughout both my undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
Working on a boat may not be the typical student job, but I have really loved my time sailing to Scotland and back, with a flexible schedule and supportive managers.
I’m also very lucky to have started working as a Press Officer for Cathy Mason MLA, dividing my time between her Assembly Office in Stormont and her Constituency Office in Downpatrick.
No two days are ever the same; visiting the Balmoral Show, Erenagh Excavation Site, and Ballykinlar GAA Site are some of my favourite memories, alongside helping out constituents across South Down.
Working in press and social media is also great for working from home or on the go, and I cannot wait to see where the role will take me next!
Celebrating: I believe it’s really important to celebrate achievements, and reflect on the past to see how far you’ve come.
I had the pleasure of speaking at the Queen’s Sanctuary Celebration Panel Discussion, chatting about my degree and balancing the work alongside my role as QUB STAR Captain.
I’m so grateful for these opportunities, and for all the friends that I’ve made along the way.
I hope you find something useful in reading about a typical day for me, building a routine that works and achieving that balance between study, work, rest, and fun!
Study International Human Rights Law
Keep up to date with QUB STAR
Is mise Órnait, and I’m studying for my Master’s in International Human Rights Law here at Queen’s!
I have loved my time here as both an undergraduate and postgraduate student, and I am really grateful to be able to share the moments, memories, and experiences that have shaped it and made it so special.
Studying International Human Rights Law has opened up so many possibilities and opportunities for me, and helped me to learn more about myself and my passions.
As Captain of Queen’s Student Action for Refugees, my last few months have been filled with so much fun, growth, and friendship, as we helped to make our campus a more welcoming and understanding place and celebrated the incredible achievement of becoming a University of Sanctuary.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/featured/BeyondtheEquationsExploringtheWorldofPhysicsattheCUWiPConference.html:
Astrophysics student Lauren recently had the opportunity to spend three days in the outskirts of Coventry to attend the Conference for Undergraduate Women and Non-Binary Physicists, hosted by the University of Warwick.
Thanks to sponsorship from the Gender, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (GEDI) committee within the School of Maths and Physics , I was able to attend this conference which brought together like-minded physicists, inspirational scientists and creatives from across the world and deepened my appreciation for the breadth and diversity of the physics community.
In this blog I will reflect on my experience and share pictures of my time at this conference!
Over the course of three days, I engaged with students, academics, and professionals whose work and ideas not only showcased the breadth of knowledge within the field but also the many directions that a physics degree can take you.
The conference consisted of keynote speakers, panel discussions, lectures, and tours of the facilities that Warwick has to offer.
The talks were wide-ranging, spanning topics such as academic career development, the versatility of physics degrees, and the intersection between creativity and scientific discovery.
One of the lectures that took place over the three-day conference
The conference was opened with a keynote speech from Dr Julia Stawarz, who currently holds a prestigious “Royal Society University Research Fellowship” in Northumbria University.
Her speech focused on her journey to where she is today and her journeys across the world for her award-winning research on plasmas within our Solar System using ESA and NASA spacecraft missions.
Throughout the first day of the conference other talks touched on recent advancements in the field of medical physics and on the importance of incorporating art into scientific research to captivate a wider audience of any age and background such as using virtual reality, art sculptures and photography for example.
This tied in nicely with lectures on the following days consisting of topics such as “Media and Communications” from BBC broadcaster Rosie Eaton who shared not only why it’s important to get involved with media, but also how to communicate your research in an accessible way; such as using everyday examples to explain complex topics and how incorporating sound effects and dialogue snippets can convey your message over radio/audio platforms.
Throughout the conference there were plenty of panel discussions, providing us with the opportunity to ask questions and gain insight and perspective from the panellists.
This included a session with PhD students to allow us to get a feel for daily life and expectations of postgraduate students.
Another discussion was held on careers in industry with physics alumni from Warwick who have gone into areas such as science policy with UNESCO, editorial roles in science journals, synthetic diamond development and data science, showcasing the flexibility of a physics degree.
Inside Warwick’s inflatable planetarium dome show featuring constellations in the night sky
One of the main goals of the CUWiP conference was to bring together physics undergraduate students from diverse backgrounds, make lasting connections while promoting representation in physics.
With plenty of opportunities to network and connect over team building exercises (and over lunch of course!), group discussions lead by the Equitea Group in Warwick’s Astrophysics department allowed for us to brainstorm inclusive practices in academia and shared resources for equity and inclusion such as how to set up your own Equitea group at your own university and topics they have covered in previous meetings.
Equitea is a forum designed to discuss issues surrounding equity, diversity, and inclusion within astronomy, physics, and the broader STEM community.
The initiative was established to help create a more inclusive environment for all staff and students by encouraging open conversations about the diverse experiences of individuals in academia.
Sessions have covered a wide range of topics, including but not limited to mental health, systemic barriers in academia, gender equality, ableism, LGBTQ+ inclusion, and more.
In fact, the Astrophysics Research Centre (ARC) here at Queen’s has already adopted its own Equitea group and hosts sessions every semester!
The Blackett Family Lab , a collective set up to connect, inspire and celebrate the work of Black physicists in the UK, shared the story of their mission to diversify perceptions and promote representation of physicists.
In an interactive session with members of the BLF physicists who work both inside and outside of academia, shared their journeys exploring their own sense of belonging in the workplace and invited us to discuss and imagine where we will go after graduating and finding our place as a physicist.
Research desks within the Marsh Observatory
The opportunity to tour the university’s research facilities provided an invaluable behind-the-scenes look at how experimental physics and observational astronomy are conducted at Warwick.
Seeing working labs and speaking with researchers about their ongoing projects demonstrated where a physics degree can take you after undergraduate studies and its real-world applications.
It was particularly inspiring to witness the scale, collaboration, and ambition that define current research efforts in academia.
One of the most memorable aspects of the conference was meeting Dame Jocelyn Bell Burnell, a multi-award-winning physicist from Northern Ireland.
In 1967, while still a graduate student at Cambridge she discovered pulsars, highly magnetised rapidly rotating neutron stars!
She uncovered the cosmic source of these radio signals emitted from dying stars revolutionising the field of astronomy.
Joining us for the conference dinner, it was an incredible opportunity to speak with an inspiring female physicist and hear all about where her research has taken her and her continued passion for increasing representation in physics.
The conference dinner was held in St Mary's Guildhall in Coventry.
With beautiful stained-glass windows and sculptures, this historic building holds fascinating tales from the medieval era.
Over a lovely dinner, I had the opportunity to meet and connect with like-minded physics students, share our current research, share advice, discuss our interests, and of course just have fun getting to know each other.
St Mary’s Guildhall in Coventry – location of conference dinner
This conference offered more than just a series of lectures, it provided a space to think critically about what it means to be part of the physics community as a woman and where my degree can take me.
It prompted questions about my own path: How can I contribute meaningfully, not only through academic work but through collaboration, communication, and creativity?
How can we encourage other underrepresented groups to pursue physics?
Conferences like this, especially those tailored to undergraduates, play a vital role in education and inspiring young physicists by connecting them to the larger ecosystem of research, mentors, peers, as well as opportunities and encourage us to see that physics is not only a subject to study but as an ever evolving, dynamic discipline shaped by people, ideas and purpose.
If you’re interested in staying up to date on physics events within UK & Ireland check out the Institute of Physics (IOP) website .
Study Astrophysics at Queen's
A Reflection on My Experience as a Course Rep
My name is Lauren and I'm a physics student taking the astrophysics pathway.
Originally from Donegal, I moved into Queen's accommodation for my 1st year and now live in a flat with my uni mates.
Outside of lectures I enjoy archery, pub quizzes and jewellery making and art.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/Services/SmartCards/SmartCardServices:
Important: Deactivate and report a lost or stolen card to the One Elmwood Student Centre (028 9097 2727) as soon as possible.
Use 'My Smart Card' app on QOL to access your smart card profile.
Swipe your card at the reader close to the door
Please Note : If you have been issued a replacement card, only your most recent card will provide access to the McClay Library.
Staff and Students may borrow laptops for use within the McClay and Medical libraries.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/Services/WiFi:
There are a number of ways to connect to WiFi at Queen's (see below)
Queen’s WiFi supports Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Kindle and Linux.
For iOS, Windows & macOS:
For Android
See settings below:
It is recommended that you have Android Version 11 or above installed.
If you are unable to connect to the WiFi service, please visit the IT Service Desk located on the ground floor in The McClay Library.
If you have a Computer Officer in your School, please check with that colleague first.
Please Note: Users must configure and test their eduroam connection at their home institution (before travelling)
How do I connect to eduroam?
Information Services can provide wi-fi access for delegates with laptops and other mobile devices.
This includes wireless access in many buildings across campus.
There are two options available:
Please Note: requests must be at least 5 working days in advance.
Other conference facilities are available through Media Services or Eventus .
Visitors to the University can connect via QUB Guest Wifi at the following locations
Connect to Visitor WiFi
The IT Service Desk will not be able to provide support for Visitor WiFi provided by QUB Guest Wifi.
Black & White Hall
Canada Room
Council Chamber
Great Hall
Newark Room
Old Staff Common Room
Senate Room
Completed in 2016, the Wireless Campus Project was a £1.93m investment by Queen's University to implement a state-of-the-art wireless service across all areas of the campus.
The project was an important part of the University's commitment to providing world-class facilities for its staff and students, and enables users to have anytime, anywhere access to the resources they need and to work flexibly across the campus.
The WiFi service provides pervasive wireless access across all University buildings and selected outdoor spaces.
Last updated: October 2023

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/wellbeing:
We recognise that being a student isn’t always easy.
As you progress through your journey here at Queen’s, the changes and challenges you experience can affect you differently, and that’s OK.
We have a highly trained and dedicated team of Disability and Wellbeing Advisors who can offer a range of support to students at any stage of their student journey.
The wellbeing team are available to meet with students in a safe, confidential, and non-judgemental space.
We will work alongside you to empower you to realise your full potential; and to equip you with the tools you will need to look after your own physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing as you progress through life.
You can contact our Student Wellbeing team at any time throughout the academic year, with the assurance of a prompt response.
Our team work 9am-5pm, Monday to Friday during normal University operating hours.
The Wellbeing Service works closely with Inspire Wellbeing (who deliver free psychological therapy support and student counselling), the University Health Centre and other statutory agencies who have the primary responsibility for providing specialist support to students.
For students who are unwell or becoming unwell, either mentally or physically, you may be referred to the NHS or other statutory agencies who have the primary responsibility for this kind of specialist care.
The University’s primary role is to provide education – and while we have support services to help students achieve their educational goals – specialist physical and mental health support can be accessed in the NHS in conjunction with support from Student Wellbeing.
Please see our Policies & Procedures section for more information.
All of our support services are free of charge and open to all Queen’s students at all levels.
Find out more about our service and what we offer.
> Support Available (information on 1:1 Appointments, Drop In etc)
> Contact Student Wellbeing or Complete our Online Contact form
> Inspire Self-Help Materials
> External/Emergency Support Contact Details
> Report and Support
> Inspire Counselling
> Student Concerns (Academic, Finance, Health & Wellbeing, Safe & Healthy Relationships, Medical conditions - including pregnancy and temporary impairments )
> Worried about a Friend?
> Facebook , X , Instagram & YouTube

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/disability:
At Queen’s University Belfast, we are committed to creating a supportive and inclusive environment for everyone.
We want all students to have equal access to everything our university has to offer.
We encourage students with disabilities, long-term conditions, or a working diagnosis to connect with our dedicated Accessible Learning Support Team.
We’re here to explore possible supports and reasonable adjustments to help you succeed in your studies and university life.
For students who are already supported by Accessible Learning Support (formerly Disability Services) and already have an ISSA in place, your in-course supports will remain unchanged and will be reinstated for the new academic year.
However, you need to let us know if you have changed course or pathway to ensure that your new School will receive a copy of your ISSA.
If there has been a significant change in your condition(s) or you have been diagnosed with a new condition, please contact Accessible Learning Support at accessiblelearning@qub.ac.uk to arrange a reassessment.
If you were previously supported by Accessible Learning Support as an undergraduate and are returning to complete a postgraduate course, you will need to contact the service to request a new support agreement by completing an online 'Get Started' form .
You will then be offered a reassessment.
Our guide makes it easier to find out
in supporting our students
Other campus supports, and peer groups
Find out all you need to know here
all the information you need can be accessed here
Student Accessible Learning Support Office
028 9097 5250
accessiblelearning@qub.ac.uk
Student Wellbeing Office
028 9097 2893
studentwellbeing@qub.ac.uk
The Needs Assessment Centre at Queen's University
028 9097 5062
nac@qub.ac.uk
The Register of Support Providers at Queen's University
028 9097 3610
nmhregister@qub.ac.uk
Assistive Technology at Queen's University
assistivetechnology@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/QUBeWell:
Empowering You to Be Well
Most of us know when we don’t feel great mentally or physically.
Most of us don’t ask for help, even when we really need it.
Stop the stigma and reach out for support.
We’re here to help you be well.
Student & Staff mental health and wellbeing is everyone’s responsibility.
In recent years we have made significant improvements in support & resources for students & staff, but we have much more to do.
Over the next number of months and years, we will work alongside you – our students & staff – to co-create our #QUBeWell Framework.
Towards a Healthy Campus: Building our Framework Together [PDF] →
Choosing themes that are important and relevant to you
The #QUBeWell Team have identified four main themes for the 2024/25 academic year that are based on a combination of our four key pillars, and what is important to our students' wellbeing at this time.
These are:
Connection and Belonging 2.
Training and Education 3.
Movement 4.
Data and Research
Want to let us know about a project that is happening where you are?
Get in touch
Discover how #QUBeWell will be implemented across this academic year
Want to find out how Student Wellbeing and Accessible Learning Support, Queen's Sport, Accommodation and the Students' Union work together to embed the aims and objectives of #QUBeWell?
We've set out an ambitious action plan for 2024-25, giving ourselves measurable objectives that demonstrate the impact we are having on students and staff.
View the #QUBeWell Action Plan

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/support/university-health-centre:
Your health and wellbeing are an important consideration ahead of starting university.
The information below will help you understand the UK's healthcare system (if you are here for the first time) and how to access local healthcare services when you arrive in Belfast.
If you are an international student remember that healthcare systems globally vary greatly, the UK system may be different than what you experience in your home country.
We encourage students to register with a GP (local doctor) – this is the best way to access non-emergency medical care.
If you are a student from Northern Ireland, you may already be registered with a GP (local Doctor) service close to where you are from.
It is your choice to remain registered with that service or to consider registering with a Belfast based GP.
If you have any queries on registration staff at the Student Information Point in One Elmwood can help (first floor).
The University Health Centre
You are encouraged to register with a Doctor (GP) as soon as possible.
On site at Queen’s it is possible to  register with the University Health Centre GP (local Doctor) Service .
The University Health Centre is based Elmwood Manse, 7 University Terrace, BT7 1NP and is a one-minute walk from the One Elmwood Student Centre.
Registrations are accepted from the following catchment areas: BT1, BT2, BT3, BT4, BT5, BT6, BT7, BT8, BT9, BT10, BT11, BT12 and BT17.
It is however possible to register with an alternative GP practice and you can search for an alternative GP Practice here
The University Health Centre require processing time for all registrations.
If you are an international student, you are encouraged to register as soon as possible after your arrival.
You will require a letter from the Student Information Point in One Elmwood to do this and can get this as part of your enrolment at Queen’s.
The University Health Centre does not accept registrations on Mondays.
The University Health Centre surgery can be contacted on 028 9066 4634 .
Medication - If you take regular medication, supplying a medical history from your previous Doctor can help the Health Centre with your medication prescription requirements during your time in Belfast.
Consider securing this information before departure and bringing it with you.
Emergency Medical Care
If you require urgent or emergency treatment you are advised to dial 999 (free from any public or private telephone) and ask for the ambulance service or go to a hospital emergency department.
Emergency departments are also known as Accident and Emergency (A and E) or casualty departments.
In Belfast Emergency Departments are located at:
Go to the appropriate reception area on arrival for further advice and guidance.
Information on how to register with the practice for GP services depends on a number of factors including; citizenship, immigration status (if relevant); including how long you will be spending in Belfast.
Please note: If you are a student that normally resides outside the UK and Ireland you can register with the University GP practice if you are in going to be living in Belfast for three months or more.
If are a student from outside the UK and Ireland and you will be living in Belfast for less than three months, you may wish to consider applying for private health insurance.
You must be registered with the practice in order to seek medical care and have more than 3 months left on your visa.
You can find out more about International Student Health & Healthcare including how the UK medical system works
Registration as an International student (EU, International, ROI and Isle of Man) ?
All students hoping to register with the practice will be required to provide additional documentation to support their registration.
For international students this includes:
Please be aware that your CAS letter can be used as course duration proof, but you still need a proof of address letter.
Registration as a student from NI, England, Scotland, Wales?
For the students above this includes:
The video below, from Dr.
Cunningham, sets out guidance on how you can register with the University Health Centre.
*The Health Centre require processing time for all registrations, this is dependent on volumes of registrations received and you can enquire at the time of registering.
The current process for QUB GP Confirmation of Student Status Letters is that they can be obtained from QUB Student Registry Services via: https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/srecords/YourStudentRecord/AttendanceEducationLetters/
Local doctors are also known as general practitioners, GPs.
They look after the health of people in their community and deal with patients' different health problems.
GPs provide services including:
Check out the UHC website for further information.
Please note a Health and Care Card is not required for booking appointments.
(their admin team are available for advice – please check our website for opening hours & contact times).
The Admissions and Access Service has been asked by the University’s Occupational Health Service to bring the following information to your attention.
Local, EU and international students aged up to 25 years and starting university for the first time, should get the Meningitis ACWY vaccine from their GP before going to university.
The Meningitis ACWY vaccine will increase protection against four Meningitis groups (A,C,W and Y).
There is an increased risk of infection with meningitis spreading when people live closely to each other such as in university halls of residence and other shared accommodation.
It is therefore recommended that students receive vaccination at least 2 weeks before starting university.
Meningococcal bacteria can cause:
Meningitis can cause death or long-term health problems including:
Symptoms of meningitis:
Meningitis can affect anyone, but is common in babies, young children, teenagers and young adults.
Symptoms of meningitis develop suddenly and can include:
All students who are changing their GP or who are registering with one for the first time should choose a GP in the local area when starting university.
If not already vaccinated, they can arrange to get this vaccine and other vaccines as appropriate.
This should be done straight away – ideally in the first week of term – don’t leave it until later .
If you would like further information about meningitis vaccination, visit: https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/articles/men-acwy-vaccination-teenagers-and-students
University Health Centre at Queen's

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/student-financial-support:
Financial support is available to students experiencing financial difficulties whilst studying and comprises two funds, the Department for the Economy (DfE) Student Support Fund and the University Financial Assistance Fund.
Further support is provided through the Queen's Bursary and the Care Leavers Bursary.
The Fund will reopen on 1st September 2025.
Students are welcome to Apply for Financial Aid on Qsis when they have fully registered for the 2025-26 academic year.
Applications to Student Support Fund
The Student Support Fund is a discretionary fund which may provide financial assistance to students from Northern Ireland and the UK who encounter financial difficulty whilst studying.
The Support Fund is focused on providing support for living costs.
We recommend that all eligible students consider applying for Support Funds.
Who is eligible for the Support Fund?
Who is not eligible for the Support Fund?
How to apply
For help completing the online application, please click here .
Can I apply more than once?
What documentation do I need to submit?
The University assesses applications in line with the Conditions of Funding set by the Department for the Economy which requires an assessment of a student's access to funding and their living costs.
We are required to assess a student’s access to funding and their living costs.
You will be required to submit the following supporting documentation with your online application which you will be asked to upload during the application process on the Document Management page:
Please note that screenshots will not be accepted, and, if uploaded, your application will be delayed.
Please use the personal statement to communicate your financial circumstances.
This is how we understand your financial circumstances to determine the level of support needed.
Assessment will begin once all documentation is received, if there are any gaps this will delay your application.
Any additional information required will be communicated to you through the Document Management page and you will be notified by email when we require further information.
We update Qsis when assessment commences.
What happens next?
Depending on application demand, assessment normally takes about 30 working days from receipt of a complete application to date of payment.
Bank accounts
We are unable to make payments to overseas bank accounts.
You must set up a UK bank account before applying to the fund.
Due to the fact that the Student Support Fund has significantly reduced funds this academic year, no second applications will be considered for an award at this stage.
Why are applications rejected?
Applications can be rejected for lack of supporting information, evidence of excessive spending or gambling, or lack of financial hardship.
What if I disagree with the assessment of my application?
We aim to help as many students as possible in genuine hardship within the funds allocated but are not able to provide for all applicants.
If you disagree with the decision reached you are entitled to request a review of your application.
Reviews should be sent to supportfund@qub.ac.uk with the subject "Request for Review"
Reviews should be requested in writing, clearly stating the grounds for appeal and, where appropriate, supplying additional documentary evidence to support the review process.
All requests for review must be received within 14 days of the date of the original decision letter.
The review process can take up to two weeks.
Students are welcome to Apply for Financial Aid on Qsis when they are fully registered.
Applications to University Financial Assistance Fund
The University Financial Assistance Fund is a discretionary fund which may provide financial assistance to students from ROI, EU and Overseas who encounter financial difficulty whilst studying.
Students must demonstrate exceptional circumstances which have occurred since term began and supporting documents MUST be provided.
Who is eligible for the University Financial Assistance Fund?
You can only apply to the fund using an ONLINE application, available by logging into their Qsis Student Account at https://qsis.qub.ac.uk/
We assess a student's access to funding and their living costs to determine eligibility for an award.
Students can only apply to the Student Support and University's Financial Assistance Fund using an ONLINE application, available by logging into their Qsis Student Account at https://qsis.qub.ac.uk/
For help completing the online application please click here
All applications to the Fund must be made through the online application facility above, no paper applications will be accepted.
All documentation must be submitted via the online application process this academic year.
DO NOT SUBMIT DOCUMENTATION VIA EMAIL
Please record your student number on all documentation uploaded.
Do not submit photographs of bank statement please, these must be submitted as a pdf in date order, for all bank accounts held.
If you are in receipt of a NI Department of Health (DoH) Nursing Bursary you must provide evidence of this.
A copy of the DoH Nursing Bursary award letter issued by the Business Services Organisation (BSO) can be requested from:
Email: studentnurse.bursaries@hscni.net Telephone: 028 95 363988
Students will be advised by email whether their application has been successful or not.
The Queen’s Care Leavers Bursary, is paid directly to an eligible student’s bank account on receipt of a successful application, and is paid in two instalments of £500, at the start of each semester.
Please visit http://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/wpu/CareExperiencedYoungPeople/
Find out about the Queen's Bursary, which can help you fund your study at Queen's.
Accessible Learning Support
Learning Development Service
Counselling Service
qubstudents@carecallwellbeing.com

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/my-queens/bank-account:
The following leaflet has been developed by the British Banking Association and is aimed at International Students.
It tells you everything that you need to know about opening a bank account in the UK.
Opening a UK Bank Account
Digital banks have become increasingly more popular with both local and international students.
These banks do not have branches and are entirely ‘app-based’ but offer a range of useful services.
A digital bank may help you to manage and use your money before you open a traditional bank account.
Digital banks are good for day to day payments and funds from international bank accounts.
Some of the main digital-only services are outlined below:
With PayPal you can send, spend and manage your money with just one account:
Click here for more information
Spend, save and manage your money, all in one place.
Open a full UK bank account from your phone, for free:
Manage your everyday spending, transfer money abroad, spend easily in the local currency, and more:
An account you can open instantly and use on your mobile.
Launched in September 2015 as the UK’s first mobile app alternative to the banks:
Get more from your money with Starling’s award-winning, app-based current account.
Enjoy no monthly fees and apply in minutes from your phone.
Please note that Queen’s does not recommend or endorse any digital or high street banking service.
It is extremely important for you to read the terms and conditions of a banking provider before you open an account.
Please also note that these services may charge you for withdrawing cash, exceeding a spending limit or going overdrawn.
Once you have decided which bank is right for you, you will need confirmation that you are a registered student.
This letter can be requested from Student Registry Services:
Request a Letter
Please see below for the details of local banks within close proximity of the University:
6 Royal Avenue Belfast BT1 1DA Tel: 0800 912 3123 Click here for more information
91-93 University Road Belfast BT7 1NG Tel: 0345 948 2222
25-29 Royal Avenue Belfast BT1 1FB Tel: 0345 740 4404 Click here for more information
International students ( existing and non-HSBC Group customers ) may apply to open a HSBC UK International Student Account before arriving in the UK, from the following countries:
Students should apply via Open an International Bank Account - HSBC International from their home country.
Existing HSBC Group customers in China and Hong Kong can also open their UK account from home.
Hong Kong customers via HK Online Banking.
China customers via HSBC CN WeChat.
35 University Road Belfast BT7 1NH Tel: 0345 600 5925
Banking services can be done at any post office (to avoid having to go directly to the bank) which includes money exchanges.
Find out more about the services offered at the Post Office.
Founded in 2007, Save the Student has become the number one student money website in the UK.
Save the Student provides free, impartial advice to students on how to make your money go further and contains some great budgeting and banking resources.
Some of the great resources contained on this site:
Please see the below guidance which provides information on fraud and scams aimed at international students:
UKCISA - Frauds & Scams GOV.UK - Fraud, Tricks & Scams
Additional online resources relating to scams, money laundering and money mules:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/careers:
Developing Future-Ready Graduates Our expert team are committed to ensuring every student has access to the right experiences to develop future-ready skills.
We offer support with all aspects of career-planning and decision-making.
We work collaboratively to produce future-ready graduates.
Students who attend Careers events and employer workshops are more likely to land a graduate role (Based on Graduate Outcomes 17/18, 15 months after graduation)
Queen’s is ranked 9th in the UK for career prospects after 15 months (Guardian University Guide 2024)
Students who access 1-2-1 Career Guidance are more likely to land a graduate role (Based on Graduate Outcomes 17/18, 15 months after graduation)
Top 170 in the world for graduate prospects (QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022)
Get in touch with Careers, Employability & Skills
careers@qub.ac.uk
+44 (0) 28 9024 5133
Find us on social media @QUBCareers

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/careers/GlobalOpportunities:
Some courses offer periods of study and work abroad as part of your degree.
However, all Queen’s students have access to a range of life-changing travel opportunities suited to every study level and discipline.
You can go abroad for the summer, for a semester or for a whole year.
Find out more about these opportunities during Go Global Week
Go Global Week 2024 was held in October and included a series of events in One Elmwood showcasing the range of international study, work and volunteering options students .
The main event of the week was the Go Global Fair i n the Mandela Hall in One Elmwood where we welcomed a range of organisations to share the various unique opportunities you can enjoy around the world during your time at Queen’s!
We are already organising a bigger Go Global Week for semester one of 2025!
Find out more about Go Global Week
91.6% of students who go abroad obtain first-class honours or an upper second-class degree (Gone International: Rising Aspirations, 2022)
(Gone International: Rising Aspirations, 2022)
Students who go abroad get better degrees and better jobs (Gone International: Rising Aspirations, 2022)
Students who go abroad are more likely to be in a graduate job six months after graduating.
Students who go abroad earn 5.5% more six months after graduating.
Fancy a taste of campus life in an exciting new country?
Our study abroad programmes range in length from one week to one year.
You can choose to spend a semester at a European or Australian university, a year in America or spend the summer in Canada.
Whether it’s gleaning industry knowledge inside the skyscraper offices of New York; tackling the policy makers in Capitol Hill or gaining hands-on work experience in global organisations in based in Northern Ireland, Europe and across the globe, our range of work abroad programmes will enrich your Queen’s experience and boost your CV.
We have placements and internships to suit all disciplines.
We’ll keep you informed about the Global Opportunities available to you throughout the academic year through fairs, information sessions and talks.
We have a range of in-person information sessions during Go Global Week which typically takes place in October, and you can also chat with us in person at our annual Go Global Fair in the Mandela Hall.
Many of our students vlog or blog about their travel experiences.
Check out our blog to read their inspiring stories.
Travelling while at university can be a fantastic and life-changing experience.
However, we are aware that the cost can be a barrier for many students.
Some programmes provide funding or scholarships to help finance your trip.
You can chat to a member of the Global Opportunities team about the travel options available to you.
Normally drop-in appointments are available every Tuesday & Thursday, 12 - 1pm.
We are currently offering these chats through virtual appointments via video call.
Check out upcoming Global Opportunities events on our Careers events page

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/careers/HowtoUseMyFuture:
MyFuture is an online careers management tool available to all Queen’s students .
You can use it to search and apply for jobs, book onto careers-enhancing programmes, register for events, access resources and book one-to-one careers consultations.
Read more about the benefits MyFuture in our blog
Search “Symplicity” and select Queen's University Belfast
Search for graduate jobs, placements, internships, summer work, part-time jobs and jobs on campus.
From your home page of the job postings , you can view the latest and trending jobs, as well as job expiring soon.
You can filter your job search by industry, job function, course, date posted or closing date.
Set up a job alert for a saved search by clicking the ' create job alert ' button.
You can opt to get daily or weekly results sent directly to your Queen’s email.
You can also favourite jobs, or follow employers you are interested in so their new posting appear on your home screen.
Below are some top tips for Streamlining your Search
We want to understand where your degree took you and the steps you took to get there, you can notify us of this via MyFuture .
"I applied for a part-time student job through a commercial job site and didn't hear anything back.
I applied for the exact same job in MyFuture and heard back very quickly about an interview and got hired!
Applying via MyFuture gives your application the Queen's stamp of approval and an added reassurance to hiring managers.
My advice to any Queen's student is to get on MyFuture!" Deepali Pathania Business Management with Placement
Click the 'tools & resources' tab from the MyFuture menu on the home screen and
access a suite of tools and resources in one place.
Improve your CV, cover letter, and LinkedIn profile
CareerSet is a powerful, licensed AI tool that Queen's has procured for its students and alumni to help you improve your CV, cover letter, and LinkedIn profile, step by step.
Once your documents are uploaded, CareerSet will provide personalised feedback with actionable advice on how to enhance your profile and boost your score.
To get started with CareerSet, take a look at the guide .
CareerSet can be accessed at www.careerset.com/qub
(or via MyFuture>My Tools & Resources>Career Ready AI).
If you are a Queen's graduate , you can find information on how to access CareerSet at our Careers Employability & Skills: Supporting Alumni Intranet.
In the ' tools & resources ' tab in MyFuture, you can also access GoinGlobal for free to find work abroad information to help you plan, as well as jobs boards.
In MyFuture you can also access Graduates First in the tools and resources area, which can help you to practice psychometric tests or complete or aptitude tests.
Another useful resource in MyFuture is Student Circus which is a job search platform just for international students that brings you filtered visa job listings, internships, and placement opportunities.
Upload your CV, application, cover letter, unofficial transcripts or other documents, such as IELTS by selecting ‘My Documents’ from the left hand menu.
Add new and label the document, select document type and ‘Choose File’, then submit.
You can then view, edit and delete your default CV, add a career portfolio or view as a PDF.
Select ‘Apply’ to view application details of your selected position.
This could be via an external website, by submitting your CV / Cover Letter, or completing and returning an application form.
Make sure you attach the correct CV and cover letter.
Top Tip : Name a different cover letter for each company.
For application forms, download the attached application form, upload to your documents and click apply.
You can view the status of your applications in the ‘My Job Applications’ tab.
Select ‘Video interviews’ to record mock interviews.
Select questions to tailor your mock interview under ‘My Video Interviews’ or click ‘recommended interview’ for questions created by the Careers team.
This tool may also be used as part of the application process for certain development programmes such as the Global Leadership Programme.
You can create your own interview by clicking ‘Create New Interview’ or copy questions from an existing interview.
Change the questions, duration and even the interviewer.
To begin, click ‘Start Your Mock Interview’.
On the main menu of your MyFuture account pick the ' book an appointment ' tab to book appointments for a CV Check, Careers Consultation or with The Graduate School or Learning Development Service.
Click ‘Request New Appointment’ select appointment type and check availability over the next 15 days.
Choose from the available appointments relevant to your course and study level by clicking the text to confirm your request.
Browse and book events and fairs via the ‘ Events ’ tab and filter your search by key word and date.
For Careers Fairs , click on the day/event to view more information, including employers attending and jobs they are recruiting for.
You can also find all Careers Programmes on our Careers Programmes web page .
Check out our Careers events on our events listing & book on via MyFuture

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/degreeplus:
The Future-Ready Award is an employability award that allows you to gain formal recognition and a certificate for the extracurricular experience you gain during your time at Queen’s.
The award enables you to articulate your learning and signals to employers that you have developed essential skills required to succeed in the workplace and is open to all Queen’s undergraduate and postgraduate students.
We have over 100 accredited activities available to search on our activity search tool.
These include extracurricular work experiences, community and voluntary work, global opportunities to work or study abroad, as well as early professional development activities.
Search for a Future-Ready Award Activity
1,000+ students earn the Future-Ready Award each year
Choose from 100+ verified activities
Impress employers with future-ready skills and an additional certificate at graduation
Make friends, build skills and networks
You can complete a single route activity from the pre-approved list and be automatically recommended for the award on completion of the activity.
Or
Complete 2 or more activities from the combined route activity list , totalling 30+ hours , then follow the steps in MyFuture to apply.
Under the Work Experience Route , you can apply by evidencing 50+ hours of self-organised, career relevant work .
Upon completion of either Single Route , Combined Route or Work Experience Route , your Future-Ready Award certificate will be presented at your graduation .
Postgraduate Students can also visit the Future-Ready Award Postgraduate webpage.
The application windows for the Future-Ready Award Combined Route and Work Experience Routes are:
From 10 July to midnight on 01 November
From 20 December to midnight on 01 March
These deadline dates remain the same for each academic year.
You can apply in either window at anytime prior to your graduation.
Applications are through a step-by-step pathway in our Careers management tool MyFuture - use your Queen's login details to log on to apply.
Hear from Queen's students who achieved the Future-Ready Award as they discuss the activities they were a part of, and what the benefits they gained along the way.
Our top employers tell us why initiatives like the Future-Ready Award help students stand out from the crowd when it comes to recruitment.
You can complete your activity (or more than one activity), at any time, fitting them in alongside your studies and tracking your Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR) progress via QSIS .
If you take part in an extracurricular activity that is not currently listed on the Combined Route on the activity search tool, it could still count towards your Future-Ready Award, provided you can show how it improves one of the key employability skills.
Blog: The The Future-Ready Skills to improve while you are at Queen’s
Taking part in Future-Ready Award is free of charge, (although some Verified Activities might have costs involved – check with your activity provider), and allows you to add valuable skills and experience to your CV all while having fun, making new friends or travelling abroad.
Please note, the Future-Ready Award is about owning your future and using your initiative to go above and beyond what is required, so compulsory placements or work experience as part of your course do not count towards the Future-Ready Award.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/iss:
The Immigration Support Service team provides specialist advice in relation to visa and immigration matters, including applying for your visa to come to the UK and assisting you with any queries you may have during your time here.
Our immigration advice and services are carried out in accordance with the UKCISA Codes of Ethics, and we are authorised to provide immigration advice by the Immigration Advice Authority who regulate the provision of immigration advice in the UK.
Our Immigration Advice team can assist with any questions you may have about your immigration status, and can provide advice and guidance about applying for your Student visa.
We are the only staff in the University who can answer questions about immigration issues.
We can assist with the following:
* Applying for a Student visa to come to the UK
* Extending your Student visa in the UK
* Lost passports
* Taking time away from your studies
* Visa implications of any changes to your study plans
Our Immigration Compliance team are responsible for ensuring that all students have the correct immigration permission to study in the UK, and to ensure Student visa holders meet their responsibilities under the conditions of their visas.
* eVisa and Share Code matters
* eVisa errors
* Immigration Document Checks
* Engagement Monitoring
* Report students are eligible for the Graduate Route
Please note that immigration advice can only be provided in writing or at a virtual or in-person appointment with one of our specialist Immigration Advisers.
Prospective students can find helpful information about different types of visas for study in our Study Visa Options Guide and on our webpages.
Our expert immigration advisers will be available to help with student and visitor visa quick queries at our immigration drop-in service.
We are based on the first floor in One Elmwood, Monday to Thursday, 2pm-3pm.
Please make your way to the Student Information Point.
No appointment necessary.
Immigration Support Service One Elmwood Student Centre Queen's University Belfast University Road Belfast BT7 1NF Northern Ireland

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/new-students/undergraduate/international-undergraduates:
Get your university life off to a great start by viewing My Queen's - everything you need to know when coming to Queen’s and throughout your first semester.
In addition to helping you navigate your way through the University in your initial few weeks, we'll help you get registered, provide details on your learning environment, all of our excellent support services, and ways to get the most of your student experience.
My Queen's
Our dedicated team can provide you with specialist advice in relation to visa and immigration matters including applying for your visa to come to the UK and assisting you with any queries you may have during your time here.
View guidance and apply
Immigration/Visa/CAS Procedures
Vice-Chancellor's International Attainment Scholarship - Four scholarships worth 50% of tuition fees for up to four years are available to exceptionally talented international students who will be starting their full-time undergraduate studies at Queen’s University Belfast in September 2025 (course exclusions apply).
Deadline for applications: 3pm (UK time) on 5 June 2025.
Early Confirmation Reward - A £1500 reduction in tuition fees is available to new international students beginning a full-time course in the academic year 2025-26 who hold an unconditional offer and pay full tuition fees (after deducting the £1500 Early Confirmation Reward and any other scholarship which has been confirmed by International Scholarships) by 31 August 2025 .
Course exclusions apply.
Find out more and apply: International Undergraduate Scholarships .
Tuition Fees
Scholarship opportunities
Living expenses
Financial support
Students must be able to demonstrate their competence in English in order to benefit fully from their course of study or research.
Non-UK/Irish nationals must also satisfy the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) immigration requirements for English language before the University can issue a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for visa purposes.
Please view the Coursefinder for details of the English Language requirements for entry to individual degree programmes.
English Language Courses
Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre offers a range of English Language courses, which may assist students to meet the required standard of English language to be eligible for entry to degree programmes at the University.
Academic English -  the fastest and most effective route towards reaching your required English language level.
It's specially designed to meet your individual learning needs, with five tailored study levels to ensure you gain the language fluency and academic skills you need to succeed.
Pre-sessional English | Online Pre-Sessional English - a short and intensive preparation in academic English, suitable for those who are already academically qualified and are due to start an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Queen's.
Other tests/qualifications may be accepted as equivalent to the qualifications listed above.
If you have a query about the acceptability of an English Language qualification, please contact the Admissions and Access Service at intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk Find out more on English Language Requirements
Start dates
16 June 2025 (10 weeks), 15 July 2025 (6 weeks), 28 July 2025 (4 weeks)
Class hours 20 hours per week
Find out more about our online pre-sessional English courses this summer in our flyer or webpage .
INTERNATIONAL ADMISSIONS: Guidance on your applications and offers Email: intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk Web: go.qub.ac.uk/international-applying
IMMIGRATION SUPPORT SERVICE: Visa Assistance and Settling on Campus Email: iss@qub.ac.uk Web: qub.ac.uk/sites/iss/
QUEEN’S STUDENT FINANCE: Tuition Fees, payments and typical living costs Email: studentfinance@qub.ac.uk Web: go.qub.ac.uk/international-tuition-fees
QUEEN’S UNIVERSITY BELFAST INTERNATIONAL STUDY CENTRE: International Foundation, Pre-Master's and English Language Programmes Email: isc@qub.ac.uk Web: https://qubisc.com/en
Queen’s currently has over 3,400 places in our student accommodation, which means you can take advantage of the most affordable purpose-built student accommodation in the city while undertaking a world-class education and making friends for life.
Queen’s normally guarantees an offer of accommodation for the first year of study to international undergraduate and postgraduate students who have applied by 30th June 2025.
For further information on guarantees, view the Allocation Policy .
View room options or view our Frequently Asked Questions about Accommodation .
Check out the University Community Living Student Handbook to see what you need to bring and what's included in your accommodation.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/new-students/postgraduate/new-international-postgraduate-students:
Congratulations on receiving your offer!
Please let us know if you intend to take up your place, even if you haven’t met the conditions of your offer yet.
To accept or decline an offer of a place, you should reply online following the links through the Queen's Portal .
This should be completed as soon as possible, ideally within 14 days from receipt of your offer letter.
If you cannot accept your offer through the Queen's portal, email International Admissions ( intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk ) with your Name and Application number.
If you have a conditional offer: If your offer of a place is conditional upon the completion of a degree or other qualification (such as an English language examination), please remember to upload a scanned copy of your official examination results by logging on to Queen's portal.
Guidance notes for International Applicants
If you are a conditional offer holder, your place is still here for you.
Please upload scanned copies of your final transcript and degree award certificate, along with your English language qualification (if appropriate) to the Queen's portal .
Where applicable, confirmation of your qualifications must be officially translated into English.
This will enable us to process the required documentation in preparation for your enrolment and send you information details for your visa application.
Please submit your results even if you have not exactly met the academic condition(s) of your offer, as it may be possible to exercise some flexibility if places are available.
If you cannot upload documentation through the Queen's portal, email these to International Admissions ( intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk ) with your Name and Application number.
Please note that applicants holding unconditional offers for postgraduate taught courses commencing in September 2025 will be required to pay a tuition fee deposit of between £2,500 - £6,000.
Details of the exact amount required will be communicated to each applicant following the issue of an offer.
For those applicants who require a CAS, this deposit must be paid before a CAS can be issued.
If your offer of admission includes a formal condition to pay a deposit in order to secure your place on the course, this payment should be made as soon as possible, in order for your offer to be uprated.
Find out how to pay your deposit
Applicants who are required to pay a deposit as a formal condition of their offer, or in advance of receiving a CAS, should pay online by Flywire as indicated:
https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/pay-tuition-fees/self-funded/
After you pay a deposit towards your fees, you will be issued with a receipt which you should present with your documents when you apply for your student entry visa to the UK.
Details of the amount of deposit you pay will also be included in your CAS Statement – see ‘ Studying at Queen’s: Study Visa Options ’.
CAS details will be required for visa applications and will only be issued by the University to those who have accepted unconditional offers and paid the relevant deposits (Postgraduate Taught Programmes).
CAS details will not be issued earlier than six months before the start of your degree programme.
Find out more about Visas and Immigration
Immigration/Visa/CAS procedures
New international students with unconditional offers to commence full-time courses in the academic year 2025/26 may receive a discount when paying their tuition fees in full by the appropriate deadline.
Find out more about tuition fee discounts .
English for University Study Pre-sessional English Other tests/qualifications may be accepted as equivalent to the qualifications listed above.
The Future Ready Launchpad will give you a head start, so join us on a 4-week programme which will equip you with the skills you need to transition to your Masters.
During the programme you will have the opportunity to connect with other students before you join us in Belfast.
There is also an opportunity to be considered for a scholarship with the Chartered Management Institute.
Information on deadlines, fees and accommodation if you're doing a pre-sessional English course this summer.
Download Pre-sessional Flyer
Find out more about the Pre-sessional English programme offered in a duration of 6 or 10 weeks here .
Start dates Mon 16 June 2025–Fri 22 August 2025 (10 weeks) Mon 15 July 2025–Fri 22 August 2025 (6 weeks)
Course length 6 or 10 weeks
Age requirement 17 years and above
Academic entry requirements You must hold an offer of a place on a degree programme at Queen’s University Belfast
Find out more about Pre-Sessional English on the Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre website .
QUEEN'S ACCOMMODATION :
Queen’s guarantees an offer of accommodation for the first year of study to postgraduate students who have applied by 30th June 2025 (terms and conditions apply).
For further information on guarantees, view our Allocation Policy .
A limited number of apartments in Willow Walk are suitable for postgraduate students who are couples or require family accommodation.
We have over 3,500 rooms available at Queen’s with a further 700 bedrooms with a nominated accommodation partner in Belfast City Centre .
Our safe, high-quality accommodation, with wrap around residential support is guaranteed for all first year undergraduate and postgraduate international students.
Weekly rent is some of the lowest in the UK, ranging from £89 - £225, with room options for every price range.
Lifestyle options of no alcohol, quiet living and single gender are also available.
Find out more and apply
Email: accommodation@qub.ac.uk Web: www.qub.ac.uk/accommodation
INTERNATIONAL ADMISSIONS: Guidance on your applications and offers: Email: intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk Web: go.qub.ac.uk/international-applying CAS Requests or Queries: cas.info@qub.ac.uk
IMMIGRATION STUDENT SUPPORT: Visa Assistance and Settling on Campus: Email: iss@qub.ac.uk Web: qub.ac.uk/isso QUEEN’S STUDENT FINANCE : Tuition Fees, payments and typical living costs: Email: studentfinance@qub.ac.uk Web: go.qub.ac.uk/international-tuition-fees CHILDCARE AT QUEEN'S : For information about childcare support, the fees and how to apply: Overview: http://go.qub.ac.uk/8qjbc Fees: http://go.qub.ac.uk/7qjbc
QUEEN’S UNIVERSITY BELFAST INTERNATIONAL STUDY CENTRE : International Foundation, Pre-Master's and English Language Programmes: Email: isc@qub.ac.uk Web: https://qubisc.com/en
Postgraduate International Guidance Notes 2025-26
UK Points Based System - Study Visa Options
Get your university life off to a great start by viewing useful information about travelling to the UK, arriving in Belfast and taking advantage of the events and services offered throughout the Pre-semester engagement programme.
It is anticipated that a Postgraduate Welcome Programme will be offered by the Graduate School in September 2025 with a dedicated week of social events.
Details will be available in due course on the Graduate School website .
Childcare at Queen's – The University offers a range of childcare support.
This includes full-time day care in three different crèches for children aged two months to four years, after school care for children aged 4 to 11 years and a Summer Activities Scheme for children aged 6 to 14 years.
For information about the fees payable and how to apply, please see: https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/StudentAndCampusLife/ChildcareatQueens/

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/student-life/Clubs-and-societies:
Joining a club or society at Queen's is the perfect opportunity to meet new people, keep up your interest in a passion or, even better, to find a brand new one you never knew you had.
It's a great way to settle in and find new friends.
In a club or society, you'll find people who share your interests or bond with others over finding a brand new hobby.
Develop new skills and build your CV with the opportunity to run for leadership positions in our clubs and societies.
Being in a club or society can also help build towards the Future-Ready Award.
Step out your comfort zone and try new things.
Going to university and potentially moving away from home for the first time comes with lots of new-found freedom.
Try new things and discover who you are!
Why Joining a Society Could Be the Best Thing You Do at Uni
Whether you're into team sports, individual challenges or just staying active for fun, there's something for everyone.
From well-loved favourites like soccer, gaelic, rugby, camogie , hockey, basketball and hurling to the unexpected like underwater hockey , floorball , dodgeball , sub-aqua diving or cheerleading with the Queen's Knights , our clubs cover it all.
With access to our state-of-the-art facilities, it's easy to train, compete, or just get together and meet likeminded people, no matter your level.
Whether you're a veteran musician or just love music, our Live Music Society is the perfect place to connect, collab and perform.
No band?
No problem.
You'll find like-minded people who share your passion, whether it's playing, singing or celebrating your favourite artists like the Taylor Swift Society .
If you love the stage then get involved with every part of our Musical Theatre Society 's productions, from acting and directing to lighting and costumes.
Get creative with the Arts Society , find a community of fellow writers in the Writers' Society, join photography sessions hosted by the Photographic Society or express yourself through our Fashion Society .
There's something for every kind of creative!
Whatever your background, there’s a society at Queen’s to help you explore faith, culture, and heritage.
Whether you want to stay connected to your roots or discover something new, you’ll find a welcoming community here.
Connect with groups like the Christian Union , Jewish Society, and Bhakti Yoga Society , or explore global cultures through the African and Caribbean Society , Indian Society , Chinese Students’ Association , Latin American Society , and many more.
From food and festivals to language and traditions, these societies offer regular events to help you meet new people and celebrate diversity.
Queen's International Student Society (QISS): Bridging Cultures and Creating Community
At Queen's, most of our departments have a student-led society where you can dive deeper into your chosen subject, connect with peers and bring your learning outside of lectures and seminars.
From the Law Society , Biomedical Sciences and Human Biology Society , and Engineering Society to the History Society, Philosophy Society , and Psychology Society , there’s something for nearly every field.
If you're not studying a particular subject but want to explore the society associated with it, many of our academic societies are open to all students giving you the chance to explore new interests, attend events and network with other Queen's students.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/public-engagement/In-the-community:
Starting at Queen's soon?
For Welfare and Safety advice download our Moving In Flyer
Our Top Tips for Freshers Week click here
We are aiming to reduce our carbon emissions and provide a high quality and sustainable working and learning environment.
The University aims to empower individuals and departments to reduce their environmental impact by encouraging, rewarding and celebrating practical environmental improvements.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/learning:
The Learning Development Service at Queen’s provides academic skills support to undergraduate students.
We do this both on-course, as part of taught degree programmes, and via individual one-to-one engagement.
Academic skills that we offer guidance on include: time management, exam preparation, academic writing, referencing, academic integrity, and research.
You may encounter us as part of your taught modules, where we offer Canvas-based learning resources and associated live workshops.
Otherwise, you are also welcome to book a one-to-one academic skills appointment with a member of the LDS team.
Students are encouraged to explore the One-to-One page of our website to learn more about what they can expect in an appointment.
Academic staff at Queen’s will find more information about LDS on-course support on our Information for Staff page.
LDS aims to empower students with the skills and knowledge they need to develop as learners and achieve their full academic potential at Queen’s.
Find out more about the Learning Development Service and the support that we offer.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/srecords/YourStudentRecord:
You should ensure that your information on Qsis is always up to date and accurate.
If you need to make any changes to your academic details, you should consult your Advisor of Studies at your School.
If you need to make any changes to your personal record (e.g.
address), you can do this online through Qsis.
For any major changes (e.g.
name, date of birth), you should contact us directly and we can help.
It is important that your records are up-to-date at all times so that we are able to provide you with accurate documents of confirmation.
Are you a third party enquirer wishing to verify a candidate's education record?
Third party enquirers such as employers, agencies and embassies must verify attendance and awards from our University with Prospects Hedd.
A Hedd verification confirms the candidate’s name, qualification type, course name, year of award, classification obtained and dates of attendance.
Please visit www.hedd.ac.uk to register.
There is a small charge for each enquiry and you must provide the written consent of the individual.
To prevent delays, please enter the candidate’s details as they appear on their degree certificate.
Enquiries are checked and completed by the University’s registry team.
The due date will be listed on your enquiry.
Please note verifications will not be processed during University closure dates.
If you are a third party enquirer and require further assistance using the Hedd portal, please email heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/InformationServices/LanguageCentre:
SEE WHAT WE CAN DO FOR YOU

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/schools:
Faculty of Arts Humanities and Social Sciences
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences
Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Graduation:
All details of Graduation ceremonies are published here including the latest graduation news, how to collect your gown, where you can watch the ceremonies and details on photography.
View FAQs Before Graduation After Graduation
All the Winter Graduation ceremonies will be live streamed on the Queen's YouTube channel.
They will appear there live as the ceremonies start.
View on YouTube See the Schedule

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/campus-food-drink:
Queen's University Belfast is a proud supporter of local producers, and where possible we endeavour to source as many ingredients from Northern Ireland.
We are also able to cater for those with special dietary requirements or allergies.
Halal menus are also available and we can supply Halal beef, lamb and chicken on request.
Changing the Menu.
For Good is a pioneering project by Visit Belfast and industry partners that we are supporting to raise funds and supplies for those experiencing food poverty in our city.
For more information click here.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Visit-Us/accessibility-information:
University Schools are spread over many sites, generally within a one-mile radius.
Although the main site is predominantly level, gradients do occur, particularly on adjacent roads and streets.
Access to academic facilities varies in range and consistency with libraries, sport and leisure facilities and the Students' Union being generally accessible.
Recently constructed Halls of Residence at various locations have rooms of floors specifically designed for wheelchair users, and further adaptations for your particular requirements may be carried out as necessary.
We have partnered with AccessAble to develop guides to help staff, students and visitors to get to and around our sites and buildings more easily.
Visit the AccessAble site
Download the AcccessAble app from the App store using the link below:
The guides provide detailed information you need to work out if a place is going to be accessible to you.
Read our travel information for about getting here .
Queen's Campus Map
The Campus Walkabout Guide
Accessible Belfast
A number of disabled car parking bays are available for staff, students, and visitors to the University.
They can be found at the Main Site , MBC , and Ashby .
For staff or students seeking a disabled car parking permit, the following steps must be followed:
If a staff member is in possession of a blue badge, they will be offered a disabled car parking permit at the University free of charge.
Staff must complete the Disabled Parking Application Form , and return the form, with a copy of both sides of their blue badge, to the Estates Directorate.
Guidelines for Disabled Parking can be found here .
Staff wishing to book in visitors to University car parks must do so online by logging on to the car parking system here .
A Visitor Parking User Guide has been developed to assist staff with booking visitors to the University.
Visitor parking bays are located in three University car parks: Main Site , MBC , and Ashby .
Our aim is to promote the highest standards of health and safety in education, research and campus life.
The Safety team are all chartered safety practitioners with a wide range of expertise.
We have a remit that covers every aspect of the University’s undertakings and can offer advice and guidance on all features of health and safety.
Health And Safety Policies And Guidance
University Safety Service
University Road Belfast Northern Ireland BT7 1NN
Tel:T: +44 (0)28 9024 5133
View Map

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/EstatesDirectorate/Services/CarParking:
The University issues car parking permits for a number of parking areas around the campus.
The demand for car parking exceeds the provision and the permits are issued annually, subject to the payment of a fee.
Visitor parking is still available.
Please see Visitor Parking section below where you will find a link to the User Guide .
Please log into Queen's Online to access the car parking system.
You can also view our Travel to Work Policy and car park Conditions of Use .
Any queries should be directed to parking@qub.ac.uk
Queen's is committed to improving its environmental performance and fundamentally changing the way it works so that it becomes an environmentally sustainable low carbon organisation.
This commitment is underpinned by the University Travel Plan , a key aim of which is to reduce the impact of University related traffic on the environment and the local community.
Car travel by staff to and from the University inevitably produces significant levels of CO 2 and our banded charging system is one of a number of measures designed to raise awareness of sustainable travel and to encourage staff to adopt alternatives to single-occupancy car journeys.
The cost of car parking is based on the amount of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) produced by individual staff vehicles.
Staff who own vehicles which produce low levels of CO 2 pay less for their annual permit than staff who drive vehicles that produce greater levels of CO 2 .
Charges are based on the Driver Vehicle Agency (DVA) tax and CO 2 emissions bands, as shown in the table below (the vehicle tax cost is shown for information only), which have been grouped into six categories.
The charge for part-time staff is 50% of the full-time rate (22.2 contracted hours or less).
Car Parking Charges
University Permit Bands
CO2 g/km
Current Car Parking Charges
Per Annum
Per Month
Up to 100
£204
£17
101 - 120
£384
£32
C (+ Pre 1 March '01 < 1,549cc)
121 - 150
£408
£34
D
151 - 185
£432
£36
E (+ Pre 1 March '01 >1,549cc)
186 - 225
£504
£42
F
226 and over
£516
£43
STAFF ARE NOT PERMITTED TO BOOK THEMSELVES IN AS VISITORS!
A new User Guide has been developed to assist staff with booking visitors to the University.
Visitor parking bays are located in six University car parks (click on the site hyperlink to view the allocated spaces within the car park):
Main Site / Main Site (McClay) University Road Belfast BT7 1NN
Entrance barriers on University Square and Botanic Avenue .
MBC Campus 97 Lisburn Road Belfast BT9 7BL
Entrance barriers at the beginning of Jubilee Road and further up on Jubilee Road .
Ashby Building Stranmillis Road Belfast BT9 5AG
Entrance barrier on Cloreen Park .
ECIT (Queen's Titanic Quarter) Queens Road Belfast BT3 9DT
Entrance barrier at the back of the building .
Entrance barrier on Glory Street .
Clinical Science B Royal Victoria Hospital Belfast BT12 6BA
Entrance barrier off the Grosvenor Road .
For staff or students seeking an accessibility car parking permit, the following steps must be followed:
If a staff member is in possession of a blue badge, they will be offered an accessibility car parking permit at the University.
Staff must complete the Accessibility Parking Application Form , and return the form, with a copy of both sides of their blue badge, to the Estates Directorate.
For staff and students seeking a temporary car parking permit on mobility grounds, please refer to the the Travel to Work Policy

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/new-students/undergraduate/international-undergraduates/immigration-visa-cas-procedures:
The Points Based System (PBS) reflects the UK Home Office immigration rules and includes the concept of Sponsorship, in which education providers must be licensed by the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Queen’s University is a Student Visa Sponsor and has a UKVI Sponsor Licence.
Under PBS students who wish to enter the UK apply under the Student Visa route (formerly Tier 4).
When you apply for a Student visa you must include a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
The University will assign your CAS number through the UK Visas and Immigration system.
In advance of issuing your CAS, the Admissions and Access Service will require you to provide details of any previous study in the UK, including copies of previous visa stamps.
This information must be provided through CAS Shield before a CAS can be issued.
The CAS number will be included in a letter called a ‘CAS statement’ which will be sent to you by the Admissions and Access Service.
This will have important information that you need for your visa application.
Important note:  A CAS statement (including a CAS number) will only be sent to those applicants who have firmly accepted an unconditional offer of a place.
It is important therefore that you inform the Admissions and Access Service as soon as possible whether you wish to accept or decline your offer.
Please see the section below for details of the procedure for issuing your CAS.
Check your CAS statement carefully when you receive it.
If you notice any errors with any element of your CAS statement, please inform the Admissions and Access Service as soon as possible.
This includes errors with course start and end dates, course titles and level of the course.
Note - the earliest you may apply for a Student visa is 6 months before your course start date, and you must not travel to Belfast until you have been issued with your Student visa.
Please note if you require a UK study visa and there are any changes to your academic status or course plan during your studies, there may be visa implications, and you will be advised to urgently seek immigration advice from Queen’s Immigration Support Service.
This includes any change to a course that has an integral work placement (for example, not securing a placement or securing an overseas placement).
Tuberculosis screening - Nationals of some countries are required to obtain a certificate from an International Organisation for Migration (IOM) accredited clinic showing that they are free from infectious tuberculosis (TB), to submit with their visa application.
Please refer to the following UKVI website to check if nationals of your country are required to obtain a certificate and, where this screening is a requirement, to obtain details of the clinics and fee in your country: www.gov.uk/tb-test-visa
Find more information on Visas and the Points Based System on the Immigration Support Service website .
Information on the PBS is also available at UK Visas and Immigration website .
The immigration rules are subject to change and it is your responsibility to check the UK Visas and Immigration website .
If you are a non-UK/Irish national, the University is required to check your original passport and immigration documents to ensure that you have correct immigration permission to study at Queen's before you can enrol.
All non-UK/Irish students must present their passport and visa or other immigration permission to the Immigration Support Office, who will take a photocopy and check your right to study.
This process is normally carried out during International Welcome and Orientation.
If you are currently studying at Queen’s and need to extend your visa you should contact the Immigration Support Service Office at iss@qub.ac.uk who will advise on the procedures and the appropriate forms to complete.
If you are studying at another educational institution in the UK and you want to extend your visa to study at Queen’s University, you will need a CAS.
A CAS statement will be sent to those applicants who have firmly accepted an unconditional offer of a place.
Depending on the type of visa you currently have, it might be possible for you to study without switching (changing) to a student visa.
If you are not sure about your visa and whether you can study please contact iss@qub.ac.uk .
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) is a requirement for most non-EU/EEA students (with the exception of nationals from Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and the United States of America) who wish to undertake an Enhanced Undergraduate degree (MEng, MSci) in certain subject areas as designated by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme applies to courses in certain Science Engineering or Technology disciplines including Materials Science, Materials Technology, Chemical, Process and Energy Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or Physics.
For students covered by the scheme, an ATAS clearance certificate will be required before application for a visa or entry clearance can be made i.e.
it will be a mandatory part of the immigration process.
This is a requirement for most immigration categories , even those who do not require a Student visa, but who may have been granted another form of time-limited leave to remain eg.
as a dependant, spouse, refugee, BNO or Global Talent visa holder.
The only exception is for applicants holding Indefinite Leave to Enter/Remain or other form of unlimited leave with no restrictions on study.
In order to be issued with a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), all applicants who are required to obtain ATAS clearance must provide evidence to the Admissions and Access Service that they have already submitted an application for ATAS clearance .
This should be in the form of a screenshot from your application record on the ATAS online application system.
An ATAS clearance certificate is valid for 6 months from the date of issue by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office.
You can apply for an ATAS certificate up to 6 months in advance of the beginning of your programme.
For example, if your programme begins on 15 September 2025, you should not apply for your ATAS clearance certificate until after 15 March 2025.
If you require ATAS clearance, you should apply in good time, and provide a screenshot from the ATAS online application system to Admissions at the earliest opportunity.
Please do not wait until your offer becomes unconditional , as this will delay the issue of your CAS.
If you require an ATAS clearance certificate, an attachment will be provided with your offer letter.
This will include confirmation of your personal and programme details, the CAH3 code for your area of study (used by the immigration authorities to determine if ATAS clearance is needed or not) and a brief description of your proposed research topic or in the case of taught programmes, a list of the modules you will be studying.
It is important that you retain this attachment as it is required when you are completing your application for ATAS clearance and also later when applying for a visa/entry clearance.
The University reference number which you will be asked for is your application number provided in the offer letter and on the attachment.
For applicants to areas where ATAS clearance is not required but where we feel there may be some doubt on the part of entry clearance officers, a short attachment will be provided and the CAH3 code for your programme of study will be included on this.
This should help to simplify the entry clearance process for you.
Full details about the scheme, including the ATAS application, can be found at http://www.fco.gov.uk/atas .
Once in receipt of all the above, we will be able to proceed to issue your CAS.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/about/Campus-and-facilities/Chaplains-and-Religious-Representatives:
Chaplains and other religious representatives are appointed by the University to represent and serve students and staff.
The chaplaincy centres provide a focus for weekday or Sabbath worship, a range of social events and activities, groups for prayer or study, in addition to pastoral care and counselling.
Queen's seeks to be a place where all staff and students feel safe and welcome regardless of their identity or background, and to be a place where diverse perspectives are respected.
There are a number of Quiet Rooms available throughout the university which can be used for quiet reflection or meditation and these are listed below;
There are also facilities based outside of the university, further details below:-
There are four Chaplaincy Centres, all located adjacent to one another in Elmwood Avenue, opposite the Students' Union and close to the main University buildings.
Each has a full-time Chaplain and other staff.
Students are welcome to make contact with their religious representatives at any time.
12 Elmwood Avenue, Belfast
and 
Derryvolgie Hall, 49a Derryvolgie Avenue, Belfast
22 Elmwood Avenue, Belfast
24 Elmwood Avenue, Belfast
28 Elmwood Avenue, Belfast
Mr Matthew Campbell 028 9261 9267
028 9066 4465
Mr Stephen Rogers 07729 366784 mr.stevie.rogers@gmail.com
Rev Dominic McGrattan
028 9066 9737 catholicchaplaincy@qub.ac.uk www.qubcatholic.org
Rev Danielle McCullagh
07964 882269
danielle@thehubbelfast.org
Rev Dr Colin Meneely 028 9076 8039 07712 032687 c.meneely@btopenworld.com
Tyndale Free Presbyterian Church 236a Donegall Avenue Belfast BT12 6LU
Ms Mary Lou McShane 07962 906236 marylou.mcshane@humanistceremonies.org.uk
143 University Street
86 Clifton Street, Belfast, BT13 1AB
028 9024 9746
https://www.iccbelfast.org/who-we-are
12 Elmwood Avenue Belfast, BT9 6AY
Derryvolgie Hall, 49A Derryvolgie Avenue, Belfast, BT9 6FP
Rev Nigel Craig 028 9066 9090 (Derryvolgie Hall) office@pciqub.org ncraig@presbyterianireland.org
Rev David McKay 028 9076 0589 07745160567 wdjmckay@btinternet.com

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/Contact-and-support:
View International contacts for each country
See a list of contacts for each Faculty and School
QUEEN'S STUDENTS' UNION (Student representation, clubs and societies, volunteering and enterprise opportunities, events, social venues and more) 1 Elmwood Ave Belfast, BT9 6AZ T: +44 (0) 28 9097 3726 Email: studentsunion@qub.ac.uk Web address: www.q-su.org
Social Media: www.instagram.com/queensstudentsunion
STUDENT REGISTRY SERVICES One Elmwood Student Centre and Students’ Union University Road Belfast BT7 1NF T: +44 (0) 28 9097 3223

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/University-life/international-food:
From specialist shops and supermarkets to restaurants and takeaways, with prices to suit every budget.
The first place many International Students start is Botanic Avenue, a thriving street packed with food shops, and restaurants serving a wide variety of international food.
Watch Malaysian student Darshana's guide to buying all her favourite home comforts including all the spices you need to make your favourite curry and where to get delicious discounted desserts.
Both Lee Foods on Donegal Pass and Asia Supermarket on Ormeau Embankment are nearby the main Queen’s campus.
They are the perfect place to go for your favourite Asian ingredients.
Both stock a wide variety of foods from spices and sauces, to noodles and rice, as well as fresh vegetables, meat and fish.
Blog: Malaysian Students’ Food Shopping Guide
Blog: International Food Spots to check out in Belfast
Sometimes you just want to cook a nice dish that reminds you of home, but can you get the specific ingredients you need in Belfast?
Of course!
If the Asian Supermarkets don’t stock what you’re looking for, we also have a wide range of specialist food shops.
From Polish Delicatessens to shops like Bangla Bazaar and Istanbul Market which cater to South Asian, African and Middle Eastern cuisines and even an American Candy Store - you’re sure to find what you’re looking for here.
Blog: Where to Shop for African Products in Belfast
Finding good vegetarian and vegan food in Belfast has never been easier.
Why not take a quick walk around campus for a vegan breakfast burrito from Maggie Mays, a tofu bao from Bao Bun Botanic, or perhaps some Falafel at Umi?
If you’re looking for vegan ingredients to cook with, most supermarkets now stock a wide variety of vegetarian and vegan alternatives too.
Blog: My Favourite Vegan and Gluten-Free Cafes in Belfast Blog: Belfast’s Best Bites: Vegan and Vegetarian Edition Blog: The Best Vegan Spots in Belfast
Belfast is ranked among the seven best UK cities for food and drink (Which?, 2023)
We’re a city that loves food, and it’s possible to find restaurants that make food from all over the world.
This is makes it easy for international students to find a taste of home.
Blog: Top Indian Restaurants in Belfast
Blog: A Taste of Home, Away from Home!
Blog: My Top Six Restaurants in Belfast
If you’re looking for shops that stock Halal food in Belfast, then Istanbul Market on Botanic Avenue is the closest to Queen’s Main Campus.
However, there is also a number of other shops further afield too.
When it comes to take away food and restaurants, you have a lot of choice from Frango Fried Chicken on Bradbury Place to The Raj on Lisburn Road and many more.
Blog: Where to Find Halal Food in Belfast

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/StudentAndCampusLife/ChildcareatQueens:
This month, we will learn about lots of animals, plants and their environments!
We will also be celebrating play and eating fajitas, as well as finishing out "Big butterly count".
We will have stories like 'Handa's Surprise' and songs like 'Walking through the jungle', as well as watching films such as 'Madagascar' and 'The Lion King'.
Childcare Services at Queen's has a Nursing Room available for mothers.
For more information please click here .
For information on the availability of Childcare Services for your child please contact the Duty Manager at 028 90 97 12 88.
"My daughter has had a wonderful time at Queen's childcare over the last six years.
I would like to personally thank all your extremely dedicated and professional staff, who have cared for her so well."

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/EstatesDirectorate/UniversitySafetyService/HealthandSafetyPoliciesandGuidance/PoliciesandProceduresLibrary/NursingMothersandParentsRooms:
Queen's staff and students returning to work or study after Maternity Leave, who choose to continue breastfeeding their babies, are welcome to avail of a range of Private Nursing Mothers and Parents' Rooms for expressing milk.
All Nursing Mothers and Parents' Rooms are private, equipped with comfortable sofas, armchairs and footstools, have access to an electrical socket for breast pump use, and are located close to bathroom facilities.
Please bring your own cool bag for storage and security of your personal milk bottles and take your cool bag with you when returning to your office or study space.
All pregnant staff and students are welcome to avail of these private rooms to rest during the day.
Staff and students undergoing IVF fertility treatment may also avail of these rooms.
QGI-SWAN
The QGI-SWAN team warmly welcomes the provision of nursing mothers and parents' rooms for staff and students returning to work and study after Maternity Leave.
This makes an important contribution towards enhancing culture and life at work for Queen's staff, which is a key area for action in the QUB Institutional Athena Swan Action Plan.
It also supports the ongoing development at Queen's of a wider integrated support framework for pregnant staff, those on Maternity Leave and those coming back from Maternity Leave to ensure that there is a supportive workplace environment and a consistent experience.
ROOM LOCATIONS
Locations of the Nursing Mothers and Parents' Rooms and access arrangements are as follows:
ROOM
6 College Park, Room OG.009
Computer Sciences Building, Room O1.017
Central Booking System on QOL Dashboard.
The Crèche can also be contacted on 02890 662146
to book access to the room
Access arranged at School of Psychology's main office,
room OG.509
Room Booking system / Reception
Access arranged at Biological Sciences' Building Reception.
Main Physics Building, Lower Ground,
Room LG.021B, Bottom of Stairwell
You must book the room in advance via QOL:
QOL accounts / Service Applications / Admin / Nursing Room – Maths and Physics
The room is available Monday to Friday: 9am - 5pm,
(excluding University closure days / public holidays).
Key available from MBC Reception
Key available from Reception, Level 1
Access for School staff and students arranged at
School Reception
Breastfeeding mothers and parents who are staff, students or visitors to our campus are welcome to the University Crèche and to use our Nursing Mothers and Parents' Rooms if they wish to breastfeed their baby during the day.
Students and Staff can book access to the room via the Queen's Online (QOL) central booking system, located on the dashboard, (please see 'Nursing Room').
The Crèche can also be contacted on 02890 662146 to book access to the room.
All breastfeeding mothers and parents are welcome to breastfeed their babies in University cafés and locations, all of which are supporters of the 'Breastfeeding Welcome Here' Scheme.
BREASTFEEDING WELCOME HERE
These locations are:
LOCATIONS
Clements cafés at the Medical Biology Centre and Physical Education Centre.
HOPE café at the McClay Library
Junction café, Ground Floor of the Main Site Tower
Krem café at ECIT, Titanic Quarter
Naughton Gallery, First Floor, Lanyon Building
Riddel Hall, conferencing rooms
Students' Union buildings, Elmwood Avenue and Lisburn Road
The Great Hall, Main Site
University Crèche, 11/12 College Gardens
50 University Road (or via 2 University Square) AHSS Student Social Space
27 University Square basement (via 27 University Square) AHSS Student Social Space
Guidance in relation to COVID-19:
Pregnancy and Coronavirus (COVID-19) information from the NHS
General Enquiries:
Should you have any queries, please send an email to University Safety Service at safety@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/naughton-gallery:
Noel W.
Anderson / Holly Bass / Julia Borderie / Camán & Co.
/ John Feinstein / Mike Fernandez / JJ Guest / Michael Hanna / Jacques Julien / Keerthana Kunnath / Fiona McDonnell / Jil Mandeng / Laurent Perbos / Shamil Tanna
29.05.25
   –   07.09.25
Ola Hassanain / Aidan Koch
02.04.25 - 18.05.25
Joe Laverty
02.04.25 - 27.04.25
The Great Hall showcases portraits of distinguished figures, captured by world-renowned artists, from the University’s prestigious Portrait Collection.
Discover world class craftsmanship through an array of exquisite items from the University’s Silver Collection.
Explore the University campus to uncover a range of historic and contemporary sculptures.
From the Naughton Gallery’s programme of contemporary exhibitions to the wide variety of fine art and outdoor sculptures spread across the campus, art is central to life at Queen’s.
LEARN MORE
For the full Naughton Gallery experience, find us on your favourite social media platforms.
Sign up to our mailing list for invites to exclusive events, and to learn about our Collections.
© Naughton Gallery at Queen's Queen’s University Belfast, University Road, Belfast, BT7 1NN, Northern Ireland, UK T: +44 (0)28 9097 3580 E: art@qub.ac.uk
Tuesday - Sunday 11am - 4pm

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/my-queens/cost-of-living:
The cost of living, that is, the cost of everyday essentials such as fuel, household bills and food that has been continuing to rise.
This is an issue that will impact all of us in different ways and here you will find advice and support in a range of areas.
Get help or speak to someone - find contact details linked below
Tips to look after your mental and physical health
Actively budget, maximise income & review expenditure
Be sensitive to others with shared utility bills or going out
Money Advice and Support
The Pantry: Your Free Refill Station
SU Advice
Giving you helpful tools and advice about managing your money and making savings where possible, like free access to interactive learning platform Blackbullion
Finance, Advice and Wellbeing Support
Food and Drink Support
Part-Time & Casual Work
Student Discounts
Exercise and Health
Scholarships and Awards
Keeping Safe

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity:
We want you to stay connected with the Queen's community long after you graduate.
There are many ways your alumni network can support you.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/QueensUniversityofBelfastFoundation:
Since its establishment in 1999, The Queen’s University of Belfast Foundation has been engaged in generating philanthropic support for Queen’s capital development programmes and academic initiatives from private individuals, charitable trusts and corporations.
A core part of our work is in fostering lasting relationships with those who share our vision for the future.
The work of the Foundation is consistent with the University’s mission to be a world-class university that links Northern Ireland to the global community through the life-changing experience we offer to our students, the distinctive contribution made to society by our graduates and the high quality and impact of our research.
Charity registration number: NIC102044

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/alumni-volunteering:
We are proud to say that every year, around the world, hundreds of our alumni support the students of Queen’s by generously giving their time and sharing their expertise.
We are delighted and very grateful for the amazing contribution that our alumni volunteers make globally.
Volunteering is a way for you to give back to Queen’s.
It can help you:
Whether you have an hour a week to spare or just one day a year, we may have an opportunity which works for you.
Wherever you are, or however much time you can afford, there are many different rewarding opportunities for you to get involved in, and we are very grateful for your support.
There are both short and long-term opportunities available throughout the year in many different areas of university life, including:
Remember – by volunteering you are making our Queen’s community stronger and better.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/data-protection:
The Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy (AEP) database contains personal data collected by Queen’s University during the course of our relationship with our students, alumni (including honorary graduates), donors and friends.
Most of the information stored will have been obtained directly from you; some of the data may also have been obtained from publicly available sources.
The Queen's University of Belfast Foundation is an independent charity set up to receive and steward philanthropic donations on behalf of Queen’s University Belfast.
The Inland Revenue’s charitable status number is XR 22432.
The Queen’s University of Belfast Foundation is registered with the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland.
All data is held securely and in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 / General Data Protection Regulation 2018.
The legal basis for storing information is legitimate interest.
The Data Controller is The Queen’s University of Belfast.
Our Registration Number in the Data Protection Public Register is Z6833827.
Queen’s University’s Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy Directorate supports a global community of stakeholders (students, alumni, parents, donors, volunteers, employers, researchers and advocates) related to the research, engagement and outreach activities pursued by Queen’s University Belfast.
In order to deliver all of the related products, services and opportunities in a bespoke manner and to ensure each individual and constituency receives relevant information, process personal data of stakeholders.
This helps to ensure that you are getting the best contact available from AEP for your purposes.
This also helps us, where appropriate, to ask for your support with the things we believe you care about the most.
AEP rely upon legitimate interest as the primary legal basis for processing personal data relating to the University’s graduates (alumni), donors, friends and supporters.
We may occasionally send a 'service message' to update alumni of a major change that will impact the service they receive.
The legal basis for emailing this information is legitimate interest.
AEP holds data collected directly from you during a number of interactions with you over a number of years.
These interactions are:
Data about you may also be collected from indirect sources, such as:
We collect data about you so that we can establish and maintain a mutually beneficial, life-long relationship with you as either your alma mater or as your charitable cause of choice.
If you are a student/graduate, some of the data that we hold about you is transferred to The Raiser’s Edge from your student record.
This data will have been provided by you, either as part of the application process, or from updates provided by you during your time as a student and will include:
Some of the data we hold about you has been created by us as part of your education record, namely:
Some of the data we hold about you is provided by you during your transactions with us (contact details updates, https://www.qub.ac.uk/alumni/ website activity, event registration, volunteer activity or making a donation), namely:
Some of the data that we may hold about you relates to your professional history.
This data may have been provided by you, or it may have been obtained from social media (eg LinkedIn) or publicly available sources (Companies House, the world-wide-web, news articles etc), namely:
Some of the data we may hold about you is created by Queen’s University based on other data that we already hold (i.e.
name, address, postcode, and employment data), either through internal or external research/profiling, namely:
We will use your personal data:
As part of this, we may analyse the personal information we collect to create a profile of your interests and preferences so that we can contact you in the most appropriate way and with the most relevant information.
We may need to share your information with our service providers, associated organisations and agents for the purposes described above.
Further details about data sharing are given below.
Queen’s considers its relationship with you to be life-long.
This means that we will maintain an alumni or supporter record for you until such time as you tell us that you no longer wish us to keep in touch you.
In this instance we will remove the majority of your personal data from our records, but will maintain a skeleton record that will ensure that we do not inadvertently create a new record for some reason in the future.
You have a choice about whether you want to receive information about our progress and fundraising activities, and by which channels.
We will not use your personal information for marketing purposes if you have indicated that you do not wish to be contacted.
Communications may be received from either AEP or The Queen's University of Belfast Foundation.
You can change your marketing and contact preferences at any time online at https://AEP.qub.ac.uk/UserLogin or by contacting Laura Hawthorne, Information Analyst, Alumni Engagement And Philanthropy, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast BT7 1NN or email laura.hawthorne@qub.ac.uk .
Your data is stored in compliance with data legislation including; The EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), The UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018.
Your data is encrypted and stored on a secure cloud platform managed by our third party software provider which permits only select Queen's staff access to your information.
Our cloud providers follow industry best practice in internet security.
We take appropriate measures to ensure that the personal information disclosed to us is kept secure, accurate and up to date.
We may pass your information to our service providers.
We always make sure there are appropriate controls in place first; the service provider will never use your data for any additional non-Queen’s purpose.
Some examples of service providers would be using an emailer service to send out personalised email newsletters, using a mailing house to send out alumni magazines, or screening names and addresses via a data bureau to identify deceased alumni and to keep addresses up-to-date on our mailing list.
Your information is held securely by AEP and may be shared with The Queen's University of Belfast Foundation (Charity Registration No: NIC102044).
This is the registered charity set up to receive and steward philanthropic donations on behalf of Queen’s University Belfast.
This is the same for students, prospective students/parents, alumni, donors and supporters who have interacted with the North American Friends of The Queen's University of Belfast, Inc.
who have an independent 501©3 charitable status in the United States.
The University is required to disclose some personal data of graduates to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) for the purpose of a survey of new graduates.
If you make a donation to Queen’s, you are given the option of deciding whether your name can be used on donor lists and other stewardship materials.
If you consent to this, we may publish your current name and the fact that you are a Queen’s donor to say thank you officially.
We may need to disclose your information if required by law (for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies).
AEP may share personal data with third party organisations which carry out contracts on behalf of the University (such as a venue hosting a University event).
AEP will only share personal data that is relevant and proportionate.
The University’s partners are subject to contractual agreements which help to ensure compliance with Data Protection legislation.
This will happen in the following circumstances:
When AEP shares personal data as detailed above we ensure that security is maintained, using tools that incorporate secure encryption.
Personal data is NEVER sold on to third parties.
By providing us with your personal data, you consent to the collection and use of this information in accordance with the purposes described above and this privacy statement.
If you are a Queen’s Alumnus/Alumna and have created an account to update your personal details, you can sign into your account to access and update most of your information.
You have the right to ask for a copy of all the information we hold about you and to have any inaccuracies in your information corrected.
If you wish to exercise this right, contact Information Compliance Unit, Registrar’s Office, Queen’s University Belfast, Belfast BT7 1NN info.compliance@qub.ac.uk .
You will be asked to formally prove your ID before your data can be released.
Our website may include links to websites run by other organisations.
Queen’s is not responsible for the privacy practices of these other websites so you should read their privacy policies carefully.
If your personal details change, please help us to keep your information up to date by notifying us at the above address or by updating your details online directly.
We may change the terms of this privacy statement.
If we do so, we will post the changes here so please check from time to time.
By continuing to use our services you will be deemed to have accepted such changes.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/Santander:
Santander, through Santander Universities UK has been supporting Queen’s University Belfast since May 2008.
Currently the bank has agreements with over 1,200 universities in 20 countries, including almost 90 in the UK.
We are proud to be a Santander University and are grateful to Santander for their support across a range of projects including those listed below.
This special partnership enables Queen’s students and staff to make invaluable international connections, gain unique learning experiences, start businesses, or otherwise fulfil their ambitions.
Details for 2021 to follow.
For further details regarding start-up and ideation funding contact:
These are available each summer to Queen's Students.
Information on other scholarships available at Queen’s can be found below.
Santander UK plc, with support from our Santander Universities UK division, are offering up to £250,000 in total funding to support UK-based freelancers and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with a freelancer grant.
Create content for small or medium sized enterprises and be awarded £1,000 to help complete the project (T&Cs apply).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/PathwayOpportunityProgramme:
We are committed to ensuring that those who are the most able, but least likely to pursue a university education have an equal opportunity to do so.Our flagship outreach initiative is the Pathway Opportunity Programme which engages schools across Northern Ireland to provide an entry route to Queen’s for talented young people who have the ability to thrive at Queen’s but face additional barriers and need support and encouragement.
We know that living expenses, rather than fees, can become a major barrier to success for students from disadvantaged backgrounds and that financial hardship is one of the major reasons students in this demographic may withdraw from their studies.
Thanks to a generous founding donation from Kilwaughter Minerals Ltd, we established the Pathway Bursary Fund in 2018 to support students, helping to alleviate financial stress and ensuring that they can make the most of their university experience.
Since then, further donations have enabled us to provide every Pathway Student with a bursary in every year of their studies at Queen’s.
You can hear from our Pathway Students highlighting the impact the Pathway Bursary Fund has had on them during their time at Queen’s.
“I don’t think until you actually speak to the students, you understand how life-changing the bursary is and how important the fund has been to so many people’s lives.”
"The Pathway Bursary gave me independence.
My parents couldn’t support me financially, so it meant a lot to know I could look after myself without guilt."
"Receiving the support through the Pathway Fund truly meant the world to me, and it continues to change lives for so many others."
"Growing up, I always dreamed of going to university.
Being the first in my family to attend was a significant milestone for me."
"The bursary fund creates a level playing field, giving every student a fair chance at success.
Knowing that support is there makes a world of difference."
"The Pathway Bursary has meant more to me than just financial assistance.
It’s a true sign of support for students from backgrounds where university might not always seem like an achievable goal."
"Initially, I thought attending university, particularly Queen’s, was beyond my reach.
It was only after a teacher recommended the Pathway Programme that I felt I had a chance."
“It takes so much stress off a student coming to university by giving them the ability to go out and make friends without having to worry about the expense.”

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/bequeathed:
We’ve partnered with National Free Wills Network to offer our alumni and supporters a simple Will for free*.
You can do this in person with a local solicitor or over the phone.
There’s no obligation to leave a gift to Queen’s, but we hope you might consider doing so.
Leaving a gift in your Will to Queen’s University Belfast helps fund life-changing research and ensures that talented students, regardless of background, can access a world-class education .
Any amount - large or small - can make a real, lasting impact.
*This service covers the cost of a simple Will, paid for by Queen's at a special rate.
If your Will is more complicated, you may require additional services.
If so, the provider will advise you of this and present a no obligation quote.
If you have any questions about leaving a gift in your Will to Queen's, or how your gift can help, please contact our Legacy Manager at l.carey@qub.ac.uk or on +44 (0) 7727 234 282 .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/Contactus:
You can contact us in a number of ways.
We welcome comments and enquiries about any of our activities and services
General enquiries alumni@qub.ac.uk
Foundation enquiries foundation@qub.ac.uk
North America Team queensinnorthamerica@qub.ac.uk
Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy Queen's University Belfast University Road BELFAST BT7 1NN
+44 (0) 28 9097 3114

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/18-45:
At Queen’s, we take great pride in elevating and supporting our students while they study, and keeping connected to them once they graduate, so they always remain part of the Queen’s global community.
Our Queen's Leaders 18-45 project highlights and celebrates students and graduates who have made an impact to the wider community, acting as role models and inspiring others to create positive change.
From classroom to boardroom, across business, finance, law, arts, science and medical backgrounds, the students and alumni profiled are inspiring others and raising ambitions for the future.
Class of 2021 - Food Quality, Safety and Nutrition | Class of 2023 - Human Nutrition
Brian Conlon PhD Scholar in Cancer Epidemiology | Ulster Champion Camogie Player
Class of 2024 - Marketing
Co-Founder and CMO, Balantra
Class of 2011 - Law
Senior Employment Lawyer, Danske Bank UK | Co-Chair, Young Enterprise NI
Class of 2024 - International Business
Belfast "22 Under 22 Entrepreneurs to Watch" | Go Global Ambassador | SU Volunteer - Handy Helpers & Homework Club
Senior Director of Athlete Performance, Teamworks | Co-founder, Kairos | Former International Rugby Player
Class of 2013 - Drama
Creative Director of Crown Creative | Owner, Neighbourhood Cafe
Class of 2012 - Law
Partner at Perkins Coie, London
Class of 2021 - Law
International Programmes Officer at Transparency International – Defence & Security and Global Health | Board Member, CIVICUS | Student of the Year, 2021
Class of 2004 - BSc Finance | Class of 2005 - MSc Finance
CFO - Sephora UK | DEI Advocate | Ethnicity Awards 'Top 10 Future Leader'
Class of 2019 - Business Management
Director of Data Solutions, Options Technology, New York

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/lanyon-magazine:
Welcome to the Lanyon, the magazine connecting you to the vibrant heart of Queen's University Belfast.
Within these pages, we delve into the compelling stories, groundbreaking research, and inspiring achievements that continue to shape our university community and its impact on the world.
Narrated by acclaimed actor Ciarán Hinds, a powerful new film marks Queen’s University Belfast’s 180th anniversary.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news/queens-joins-forces-with-brainwaves-ni.html:
A new project at Queen’s University, supported by the charity Brainwaves NI and in partnership with the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, is exploring whether a sequencing technology can shorten the time it takes to diagnose brain tumours
The team is investigating the use of ‘rapid nanopore sequencing’, a method capable of reading tumour DNA within hours.
The approach, developed by the University of Nottingham, in partnership with Nottingham University Hospitals (NUH) NHS Trust, could reduce the wait for a confirmed diagnosis from the present standard of several weeks to just a few days - giving patients and clinicians answers far more quickly and relieving uncertainty about the precise tumour type.
Professor David Simpson, Professor of Genomics at the Wellcome-Wolfson Institute of Experimental Medicine, explained: “Researchers have developed a new molecular approach that can deliver a tumour subtype diagnosis within hours.
In this project we will show how the technology could be applied in Northern Ireland to accelerate the information flow to patients and care teams.”
Diagnosing brain tumours is particularly challenging.
Many look similar under the microscope, and the exact subtype often cannot be confirmed until tissue is tested in specialist laboratories.
This makes it harder to plan the best course of treatment after surgery.
Faster turnaround would mean patients and their families spend less time waiting for answers, and clinicians can make treatment choices earlier and with greater confidence.
Dr Estelle Healy, Consultant Neuropathologist with the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, said: “This is an exciting opportunity to develop our regional service for patients, based at the Belfast Trust and to trial a technology which could be adopted routinely across the UK for faster brain tumour diagnosis.”
While the immediate focus is on reducing waiting times for post-surgical diagnosis and follow-up care, Professor Simpson noted that in future, the same technology could also be applied during surgery itself, helping surgeons make even more informed decisions in real time.
Chair of Brainwaves NI, Colin McMillan, added: ”I am delighted that Brainwaves NI has agreed to fund the Nanopore Pilot for faster diagnosis in brain cancer.
We are committed to supporting research that can make a real difference to people living with brain tumours and their families.
This project will make a huge difference to brain cancer diagnostics in Northern Ireland, bringing it in line with other centres across the UK.
Quicker diagnoses can help alleviate some of the immense pressure and uncertainty faced by them, and we are proud to support this important work.”
Speaking about the programme, Queen’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer said: “The research and programmes undertaken at Queen’s can very often change lives in many ways.
The support provided by philanthropy can mean the delivery of better solutions to big world challenges.
We are incredibly proud of the work delivered by our staff, and the programmes they deliver in collaboration with partners, charities and supporters of Queen’s, and are delighted to be working with Brainwaves NI and the Belfast Trust to support this project.”

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news/paying-it-forward-kathleen-mary-mcguckin-scholarship.html:
The scholarship, endowed with a generous gift of £50,000, aims to support talented students who face financial barriers in accessing higher education.
When Kathleen Dick passed away in July 2024, her offspring wanted to do something significant to honour her memory and the standing she had in her community.
The siblings decided to set up a scholarship in her name.
Adopted as a young baby, Kathleen was raised in Magherafelt where she dreamed of becoming a teacher.
Her dream became reality thanks to the generosity of the community who supported her to attend St Mary’s.
Following her degree, she went on to teach generations of students in West Belfast, Newtownabbey and eventually Whiteabbey, where she became Vice Principal of St James’s Primary School.
“She was a big personality,” recalls Brian Dick, who is now President and CEO of a global manufacturing firm Golden State Foods.
“She raised six children, worked full time, and was genuinely beloved in her community.
You couldn’t walk through Whiteabbey without it taking an hour and a half - she’d taught everyone.
This scholarship is our way of honouring her, and passing on the support she once received.
“She had a wonderful life, and we had a great start in life because somebody was generous to her.”
The idea behind the scholarship is to inspire other students, who like Kathleen, have the determination and enthusiasm to pursue their academic ambitions but need financial support.
Brian, a Queen’s alumnus himself, credits his time at the University with helping shape his successful career path.
“I studied Business Administration and Modern Languages at Queen’s.
The experience was formative.
It was there that people told me I could go as far as I wanted in life and I believed them.
That belief helped carry me to where I am today.
I feel like I owe a big debt of gratitude to Queen’s for that.”
During the 1980s, Brian received the Emily Lady Pakenham Scholarship, which helped him - then the youngest of six children - attend university during difficult economic times.
He and his siblings now hope the new scholarship in his mother’s name can provide the same life-changing opportunity for others.
Brian says: “This is a gift from all six of Kathleen’s children.
We just want the scholarship to quietly help someone the way others helped our mum - and the way Queen’s helped me.
The opportunity provided to our mother encouraged her to go into education and to ensure that all her own children had the chance to attend university, which we all did.”
He adds: “I’d like people to hear my story not because I want them to know what I did with my life, but I want them to see what they could do with their lives.”
The Kathleen Mary McGuckin Scholarship will be awarded at the start of the upcoming academic year.
Speaking about the scholarship, President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer said: “The ripple effect of philanthropy means that many people who have benefitted from support in their education will consider ways they can pay that forward, if they’re in a position to do so.
“This can be through financial donations, taking part in alumni events or just giving their time to mentor or volunteer.
We hope that the story behind the Kathleen Mary McGuckin Scholarship will inspire others to reflect on the role education plays in changing lives - and the ripple effect of generosity through generations.”
Media enquiries to Queen’s Communications Office via email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk or tel: (028) 9097 3091.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news/ai-boost-belfast-global-economic-powerhouse-business-leaders-queens-economic-forum.html:
Coinciding with the international spotlight of The Open Championship, the Forum brought together more than 100 senior investors, entrepreneurs, policymakers and researchers to explore how AI can supercharge Belfast and Northern Ireland’s potential as a global hub for innovation, investment and economic growth.
Key contributors included some of the world’s most influential thinkers and investors, including one of Ireland’s most successful businesspeople, financier and serial investor Dermot Desmond, as well as former US trade envoy Dr Joseph P.
Kennedy III, senior executives from OpenAI, Mastercard, Salesforce, PWC, and some of Northern Ireland’s fastest-growing deep-tech companies.
Dermot Desmond had a clear message for invitees:
“Northern Ireland is in a unique position to attract global investors and build a competitive, resilient economy.
With dual access to the UK and EU markets, a lower cost of living than other capital cities, and a world-class university producing a steady stream of talented and highly skilled graduates, Belfast has the potential to be a global economic powerhouse.”
The Forum focused on four key areas where Queen’s has demonstrated international leadership:
Attendees also heard from Queen’s-supported spinouts including Analytics Engines, Bia Analytical, Catagen, and Ionic Technologies – companies that began life on campus and are now attracting global investment across energy, diagnostics, data and AI.
American economist and former White House advisor Dr Pippa Malmgren told delegates:
“The island of Ireland, both north and south, has always been a region of storytellers and storytelling which is an essential skill for technological advancement.
“It is not enough to have great tech.
Someone needs to explain it.
Also, your long history of polymathic inventors since the industrial revolution means that you can become experts in not just individual technologies but in techplexity which is the relationships between many technologies that are all advancing at a hyper fast pace.”
Queen’s President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Ian Greer added:
“With thousands of visitors from around the world arriving for The Open, this is the moment and opportunity to showcase Northern Ireland’s strengths and our ambition to the rest of the world.
“Queen’s is leading the way for entrepreneurial impact and we will ensure today’s Forum isn’t just a one-off conversation – it’s a launchpad for new ideas, lasting connections and future investments that will shape the next chapter of Northern Ireland’s economic story.
“We are particularly pleased to welcome Dermot back to Queen’s where he has made such an input to our work, in particular, supporting the Patrick G Johnston Fellowships which allowed exceptional individuals to develop translational research programmes to benefit patient care and advance cancer diagnosis and treatment in Northern Ireland and beyond.”
The Forum is part of Queen’s year-long celebration of its 180th anniversary, marking nearly two centuries of delivering innovation, education and civic leadership.
Media enquiries to Queen’s Communications Office via email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk or tel: (028) 9097 3091

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news/first-grad-in-family-champions-education-for-others.html:
Sophie Crumlin, from Glengormley, is graduating today with a degree in Law with Politics from Queen’s University Belfast, having spent time during her studies not only enriching her own education, but about advocating for others, like her, whose access to higher education and career pathways may have added challenges.
Sophie began her Queen’s journey through the University’s Widening Participation’s Pathway Opportunity Programme.
This programme seeks to broaden access to higher education for underrepresented groups, and Sophie credits their work and dedication with helping her overcome all of the doubts she had about studying law, based on her own background.
As she describes:
“As I progressed through school, I became more aware of obstacles that people from my background faced, particularly when wanting to gain an education and pursue a legal career.
“I am from a working-class background, with only one parent able to work.
I am the first in my family to attend university and did not have any prior legal connections, so I began to build the idea in my head that law was only for the rich and well-connected.”
Despite these doubts, the Pathway Opportunity Programme played a vital role in changing her perceptions of what a university student and lawyer looked like.
As Sophie explains:
“The programme not only gave me the skills to succeed in university through UCAS support sessions and introductory lectures, it also alleviated many financial pressures through the bursary support.
Most importantly though, it gave me the confidence to pursue my childhood dream.”
Sophie highlights the importance of encouragement and support from a young age, citing her primary school teacher, Mr Hutcheson, as someone who always saw her potential and pushed her to achieve it.
It was primary school where Sophie first considered law as a career pathway, with Mr Hutcheson having mentioned that his brother was a London-based lawyer.
Since stepping through the doors of Queen’s, Sophie has gone on to support the University’s outreach programmes in any way she can; leading campus tours for primary school pupils, mentoring sixth form students, speaking at major events on access to education and women in leadership, and championing widening participation initiatives across the board.
Sophie describes her motivation:
“I wanted to give back to those that supported me in the transition to university, but even more than that, I wanted future years coming up behind me to know that your background should not be a barrier to education.
There’s no ‘one type’ of student and no young person should believe they cannot achieve things because they come from underrepresented backgrounds.
Our differences should be an asset, not a barrier.”
It was Sophie’s passion for advocacy that helped her go on to secure a place on the prestigious Clinton Scholarship Programme in New York and gave her the opportunity to take part in a Belmont University’s study abroad summer programme in Nashville.
She has spoken at major events alongside leading figures such as Dana Denis-Smith OBE, Baroness Hale of Richmond, and Lady Chief Justice, The Rt Hon Dame Siobhan Keegan, where she drew on her own lived-experience, championing underrepresented voices in higher education and law to encourage active efforts to challenge and remove the obstacles they often face.
Reflecting on her journey so far, Sophie said:
“These experiences have felt so surreal.
They pushed me out of my comfort zone and made me realise I was capable of more than I ever would have believed when I first came to Queen’s.
I’ve learned that I can be a voice for others and that my background doesn’t limit what I can achieve.
You don’t have to fit a mould to make a difference.”
And her advice for anyone who comes after her:
“Don’t let fear or self-doubt decide your future.
Rejection will come, but it does not define you as a person.
I would rather know that I put myself out there and tried to do something new, than have to live with the regret of never trying.”
As Sophie prepares to sit the entrance exam for the Institute of Professional Legal Studies, and hopefully qualify as a solicitor, she credits her success to her circle of support; her parents and grandparents, who have been her “biggest role models,” and the teachers and lecturers who believed in her potential from the start.
Reflecting on the support she’s had:
“Without them, I wouldn’t be here today.
And that’s why I want to pay it forward for everyone who’s ever felt like they didn’t belong.”
For media enquiries, contact comms.office@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news/inspiring-next-generation-stem.html:
Abi Way is graduating today with a degree in Product Design Engineering from Queen’s – the first student with a significant visual impairment to complete the course.
Abi, originally from St Alban’s, joined the course in 2021, knowing that it would involve working with highly visual tools and software not designed with accessibility in mind.
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) – a cornerstone of the programme – was one of the biggest early challenges.
As Abi explains:
“I can't deny that I panicked when I first realised the extent of the accessibility issues but I was determined to find a way to make it work.
I spent many extra hours learning the software, often relying on memory rather than visual cues, and the university provided 1:1 support to act ‘as my eyes’ which really helped.”
Abi’s perseverance paid off as she not only overcame her initial doubts but ended up achieving her highest module mark in CAD that year, going from her most feared subject to her favourite and strongest.
Abi’s time at Queen’s has been defined by more than just academic success.
She was an active member of the Formula Student team and Queen’s Propulsion Laboratory, and also found time for music and trampolining.
During her placement year at Airbus Defence and Space, she worked across multiple departments in innovation management and took part in the UK Challenge – a demanding three-day event involving running, mountain biking, canoeing and problem-solving.
That same year, Abi launched her own charity, Boomerang, to help visually impaired children access STEM education:
“STEM subjects can be really difficult to access at school if you’re visually impaired – from the teacher’s handwriting to calculator displays.
Boomerang aims to change that by offering mentoring, hands-on events and an online community to help bridge those gaps.”
Abi’s work has already been recognised nationally.
She received the National Trust Time and Space Award during her placement year and recently won the Enactus Spark 2025 competition to support Boomerang’s growth.
She was also awarded the Walter Wilson Scholarship from Ulster Carpets for her contribution to the School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Queen’s.
Reflecting on her time at Queen’s, Abi says:
“Having a disability means you’re often the only one who really knows what you’re capable of.
There were times I had to make sacrifices and adapt how I worked, but the support from the University made a big difference – they listened and worked with me.”
And Abi’s advice for anyone in a similar position as her:
“It won’t be easy, but if you’re passionate and determined, go for it.
Technical subjects still have accessibility gaps, but university support can be far better than you expect – don’t let past experiences hold you back.”
Abi was born with Oculocutaneous Albinism and Nystagmus, a condition affecting her vision but not her determination.
She now plans to pursue a master’s degree in either space or design engineering and continue developing Boomerang alongside a career in the space industry – a dream she’s held since childhood.
Abi’s final words of wisdom:
“Life is a challenge – take it head on.”
Media enquiries to Queen’s Communications Office on email: comms.office@qub.ac.uk or tel: (028) 9097 3091

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/news:
Nineteen-year-old Actuarial Student Joey Clarke has been announced as the recipient of the 2025 Brian Conlon GAA Academy Scholarship at Queen’s.
A former Ireland international rugby player, a cancer researcher and an entrepreneur have been named among Queen’s Leaders 18-45, which recognises the achievement of young graduates and students of Queen’s.
Queen’s graduate Ciarán McGonagle has been recognised as one of the most influential lawyers in the UK, earning a coveted spot in The Lawyer magazine’s prestigious Hot 100 list for 2025.
Queen’s student Lee Curran is aiming to inspire other students facing barriers into the legal profession following his recent successful application to become the 2025 Lord Kerr Bar Scholarship.
A new scholarship programme is underway at Queen’s, honouring the work of former Chancellor Dr Thomas J Moran and set to support four postgraduate students from widening participation backgrounds with £10,000 towards their education.
Queen’s Whitla Hall is a famous landmark for everyone linked to the University.
But when more than 100 alumni from across the generations gathered for a gala dinner in London, they were delighted to hear that one of guest had a special connection.
Queen’s graduates from 1964 to 2024 have gathered in London for a gala dinner that marked the latest stage in the expansion of the University’s alumni network in the city.
Queen’s students have kicked off a telethon fundraising campaign to generate donations to the Queen’s Annual Fund.
Over a five-week period, students will engage with graduates and supporters of the University to encourage support for various projects
Over 100 students from Queen’s School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computing showcased their innovation and problem-solving skills at a Datathon event at Queen's.
Queen’s largest alumni association will play a key role in uniting the University’s global network of graduates, its newly elected President has said.
One of Ireland’s leading human rights defenders has revealed how studying at Queen’s fuelled her pursuit of social justice.
Limavady student Caoimhe McGonigle is heading to the US to start an internship with Emerald Isle Immigration Centre (EIIC) in New York.
Hundreds of key donors, volunteers and legacy pledgers got together at Queen’s for a thank you event which also marked 25 years of the Queen's University of Belfast Foundation.
Queen’s is celebrating 25 years of the Queen’s Foundation which has been a key driver of philanthropy at the University.
Queen’s strong links to London are creating exciting opportunities for students and graduates, a special reception in the City has heard.
Queen’s has hosted a delegation of Californian politicians and businesspeople showcasing the work of the university and its impact on a global scale.
Chemical Engineering student Ruairi Forbes has been announced as this year’s recipient of the 2024 Brian Conlon GAA Academy Scholarship at Queen’s.
Actor Jamie Dornan joined former Queen’s students and Honorary Graduates to congratulate thousands of students taking part in Graduation ceremonies at the University.
When physics student Leah Donnelly was told that she had been awarded a £2000 scholarship for her performance in her first year Physics exams at Queen’s, she thought it must be a mistake.
Queen’s alumni David Oliver shares his memories and letters with the newly opened Seamus Heaney Centre.
A group of riders from the Rossi Cyclist Group have raised a massive £41k from a 600km 3-day cycle to fund prostate cancer research at Queen’s.
Queen’s Architecture graduate Mike McMahon and his wife Jewlsy Mathews plan to bring the jungle to this year's Chelsea Flower Show.
We’ve just published our brand new, digital Lanyon magazine which helps our alumni keep in touch with all things Queen’s.
Two engineering students at Queen’s will benefit from a new scholarship from Ulster Carpets inspired by the innovation of the former Managing Director Walter Wilson.
Queen’s law graduate Aine Doyle has been awarded the Lord Kerr Bar Scholarship.
The award will cover the fees of the one-year Bar Trainee course at the Institute of Professional Legal Studies (IPLS), amounting to £10,400.
KPMG is enhancing its pipeline of diverse talent by providing opportunities for students to study at Queen's Business School.
Paralympian and professional wheelchair basketball player, James MacSorley has won the Allstate NI Queen's Graduate of the Year Award for 2023, receiving his award at the University's annual Charter Day Dinner.
A number of innovative student and graduate-led businesses are to receive a share of £100,000 in funding from Queen’s University Belfast, as part of its new ‘InQUBate’ initiative.
Queen’s University Belfast has today made history by launching Ireland’s first independent Prostate Cancer Centre of Excellence.
A group of Queen’s alumni currently working at Allstate Northern Ireland recently returned to the Queen’s campus for an engaging networking event.
The event was hosted at Queen's state-of-the-art Student Centre and Students’ Union at One Elmwood.
The Rugby World Cup has grabbed the attention of sports fans around the globe – and now you can play a part in developing the next generation of top talent.
Research to develop new treatments for patients facing a brain tumour diagnosis could give hope for the future, a family foundation supporting new work has said.
A former art teacher with cancer has said donating her biological samples for medical research and leaving a financial gift in her will is the “best legacy” she can leave.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/alumni/AlumniCommunity/Obituaries:
If you would like to submit an obituary for a Queen's graduate, or a former member of University staff, please send it to alumni@qub.ac.uk
The following obituaries and appreciations have been supplied by family members, friends or associates of the deceased since 1 January 2025, and are published in good faith:
The following obituaries and appreciations have been supplied by family members, friends or associates of the deceased since 1 January 2024, and are published in good faith:
The following obituaries and appreciations have been supplied by family members, friends or associates of the deceased since 1 January 2023, and are published in good faith:
We have also been advised since 1 January 2023 of the passing of the following graduates and former staff members.
Names are listed in alphabetical order by surname.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/alumni/AlumniCommunity/FAQs:
Alumni Relations Queries
If you are registered with Net Community, you can log in and amend the contact details that we hold for you.
Visit the User Page to log in, reset your password or to register for an account.
You can also contact alumni@qub.ac.uk to have your details updated.
If doing so, please include your:
All graduate information is collected and stored in accordance with the latest UK data protection legislation and will be treated confidentially.
You can read our current Data Protection promise to you here .
Replacement degree certificates can be obtained if the original parchment has been lost or destroyed, at a cost of £25 per parchment.
For full information on requesting a copy of a degree certificate (often referred to as a parchment) please visit the Student Registry Services website .
A transcript is a confirmation of your academic history and will list academic modules and results obtained during your studies.
For more information on how to obtain one, visit the Official Transcripts FAQ page .
Yes, gowns are available for hire in a range of sizes for graduates with Bachelor’s degrees, Master’s degrees and PhDs.
Gown hire costs £25 for 48 hours.
A copy of your degree certificate is required to book a gown.
Gowns must be collected from the Welcome Centre, as delivery is unavailable.
Visit the Welcome Centre website for more information or contact gownhire@qub.ac.uk.
Your Queen's email address remains active for 2 years following your graduation.
Following this, it may be deleted if it is inactive for over 6 months.
Although you retain access to your email address, you lose access to Canvas, QOL and Office365 after graduation.
Full terms and conditions here .
If you are continuing to have issues that are not solved by above guide, email alumni@qub.ac.uk including the following information so we can verify your identity before raising this directly with IT on your behalf:
You certainly can, in fact Queen’s graduates can take advantage of discounted rates for these services.
Graduates can save up to £48 per year compared to member of the public with Queen’s Sport .
Becoming an Associate Member of the Library means you can borrow up to 10 books at a time.
For members of the public this costs £120, but for graduates it is £69.
Those who graduated in the past six months can avail of a further discount of just £54 for the year.
You can continue to use the services and information available through the Careers, Employability and Skills team for 2 years following graduation.
Current vacancies, help with interviews, help with CVs and one-to-one support is available.
We love to hear about our graduates and will always do our best to include your news in the Class Notes section of our website.
Details should be emailed to alumni@qub.ac.uk .
Obituaries and appreciations should be emailed to alumni@qub.ac.uk and will be published online in the Obituaries section as soon as possible.
Email your query to alumni@qub.ac.uk and, if we hold a current address for your former classmate, we will forward your message to them on your behalf.
Alternatively, if you are happy for us to do so, include your contact details and we can ask them to contact you directly.
Yes, please email alumni@qub.ac.uk with your query, providing as much detail about your ancestor as you can.
For example in addition to their full name (including maiden names for married female graduates) and date of birth, please also provide their subject of study, any degrees they obtained, their year of graduation etc.
Queen’s has an extensive network of associations and alumni chapters around the world.
Check our Associations page to find out if there’s one near you.
Often where there is not a formal association, there are dedicated LinkedIn groups, where graduates in specific regions can interact.
If there is not currently an association in your area and you are interested in setting one up, please contact alumni@qub.ac.uk .
We can then check how many graduates are in your area and provide advice on getting an association started, if there are sufficient numbers.
Reunions are a great way to meet up with former classmates and are, inevitably a lot of fun!
General advice on organising such graduate events can be found on the Reunion & Events page .
Email alumni@qub.ac.uk for some help in getting an event together.
Queen's campus is an ideal location for your wedding.
As a graduate you can hold a civil ceremony and/or wedding reception in the historic Great Hall on the main campus or in the quiet leafy surrounds of Riddel Hall on the Stranmillis Road.
Find out more on our Weddings page .
Queen’s Welcome Centre is a Northern Ireland Tourist Board Local Information Office.
It serves as an information point for visitors and tourists, as well as offering a varied selection of souvenirs and gifts, many engraved with the crest of the University.
You’d be very welcome to drop in during opening hours (8am-5pm, Mon-Fri), to email your enquiry to queens.welcomecentre@qub.ac.uk , to give us a call (+44 (0)28 9097 5252) or to shop online .
The Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy Office (AEP) keeps graduates of the University in touch with each other and with Queen's through a programme of regular engagement and raises vital funds to support the ongoing activities of the University.
You can follow AEP's activities on social media by following us on Twitter , Facebook and LinkedIn .
Development Queries
Queen’s is always striving to conduct more cutting-edge research, to maintain and build upon the excellence of the University’s facilities and to continue to enhance the student experience.
Fundraising has had a huge difference not only on campus, but in the wider community as research at Queen’s has changed so many lives for the better.
Among the countless examples of projects funded by generous donations at Queen’s are the POP programme , the vibrant creative writing hub at the Seamus Heaney Centre and the life-changing work underway at The Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research .
Many of our donors request that their money is spent in areas that are passionate about, whether this is the University’s Rugby, Rowing or Wado Ryu Karate clubs, scholarships and bursaries for incoming students , or certain schools, faculties or research institutes at Queen’s.
If you have no particular preference, then your donation will be allocated to the area of most urgent need within the University.
You can set up a recurring gift, or send a one-time gift in Pounds from our ' Make a Gift ' page, for which a small admin fee will be incurred.
There are also pages for American and Canadian donors wishing to contribute in Dollars.
Alternatively, contributions can be made by post, bank transfer, through payroll and more.
For more information visit our Giving pages:
For general information on supporting the University please visit the Queen’s Foundation web page.
There are always a number of volunteer opportunities, whether this is working with students as a mentor, providing a profile on your career achievements since graduation or representing graduates as a member of Convocation .
Find out more on our Volunteering page.
Legacy gifts from alumni and other supporters of Queen’s make a huge impact, funding the latest research and supporting students and staff across the University.
Read about the difference that previous legacy gifts have made to Queen's and find out more information on our Legacy Gifts page.
Yes you can request that your donation remain anonymous by notifying us at the Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy Office: email alumni@qub.ac.uk ,
We will ensure that you gift remains anonymous and that your name does not appear on the Donor Roll of Honour.
The Queen's Annual Fund is dedicated to enhancing the student experience and supports a diverse range of projects led by students.
Each year the Fund supports Schools, Clubs and Societies with a diverse range of projects and events, including scholarships, mental health and wellbeing initiatives, sport development, community impact, cultural diversity and much more.
Read more and apply for funding on our Annual Fund page.
Queen's University of Belfast Foundation has its own Registered Charity Number: NIC 102044.
This means that gifts made by UK income tax payers can benefit from Gift Aid.
More information contact alumni@qub.ac.uk .
Queen's treats all of its donors with the highest level of care and respect.
Our Donor Promise and Gift Acceptance Policy are available to assure all donors and prospective donors of the integrity and accountability of the Development programme at Queen’s.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/parents-guardians-carers:
As a parent, guardian, or caregiver, you play a crucial and trusted role in guiding and supporting your young person.
Deciding to pursue higher education is a significant step towards independence for a young person, however, this exciting journey can also bring challenges for some students.
To help you navigate this process, we've put together some important information that will empower you to plan ahead and support your young person in making informed decisions about university.
Register to receive updates from Queen's
Discover how supporting your young person in pursuing further education can be a life-changing experience, opening up new opportunities, fostering personal growth, and advancing their career.
Learn about the benefits of higher education to help your young person make informed decisions about their educational path.
Choosing the right undergraduate degree can be overwhelming for a young person.
Here’s how you can help them narrow down their options and find the perfect course.
Looking for a reliable resource for all matters related to your young person's university journey?
From demystifying the application process to guiding you through student finance and assisting your young person in securing suitable accommodation, our comprehensive guide offers invaluable support for those navigating their young person's academic path at Queen's University Belfast.
Going to University marks a new chapter in a young person’s development.
Moving to independent learning and living is an exciting time – one of exploration, not just of the subject that they have chosen to study in more depth but also exploration of themselves as people.
Each student is different – so for some this may be staying in very regular contact, for others it might mean ‘letting go’ a bit more and encouraging them to make decisions for themselves and self-manage the situations they find themselves in.
We all need the support of friends and family throughout our lives, but there is a point for young people when they need to be encouraged to become more independent and responsible for their own path.
Read the Guide for Parents/Guardians

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Download-a-Prospectus:
Undergraduate Prospectus 2026 Entry - Register to receive a copy
Undergraduate Prospectus 2025 Entry - Register to receive a copy
For degree and course information, please see INTO Queen's

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/postgraduate/masters-degrees:
Nestled in the heart of Belfast, our university, proud member of the Russell Group, offers you a unique blend of world-class education and an extraordinary living experience while studying your masters degree.
We offer a range of master's degrees including PgCert, PgDip, PGCE, MSc, MA and MBA.
Register Interest for Masters Study
Browse Schools and Departments
Join us to gain insight into life at Queen's, along with useful information and advice which will guide you through your journey to postgraduate study.
Register for Postgraduate Events Take a Virtual Tour of Campus

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/teachers:
Meet our professional and friendly team who are here to help and support you.
From bespoke school talks to our Open Days, we are happy to support you in various different ways.
Find useful video resources, presentations and key information.
Find out more information about how your students can benefit from studying a course at Queen’s.
Important dates and information about our upcoming event for students, parents and teachers.
Discover key dates, policies and updates from our dedicated Admissions and Access Service.
What Careers support is available to your students, and where could a degree from Queen’s take them?
Find out more about what our high-achieving graduates have done since leaving Queen’s.
Substantial investment has developed our historic campus into an innovative learning environment.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Undergraduate/path-to-uni:
It's never too early to start thinking about university and what that journey is going to look like.
Choosing the right course and university is a pivotal moment in a young person's life.
It's good to start thinking about university options early, ideally around the same time as selecting A-level subjects or equivalent qualifications.
This foresight allows you to align your subject choices with potential university courses, ensuring you meet the entry requirements for your desired course.
All applications for full-time undergraduate degrees are submitted through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
The UCAS Search tool that lists courses across the UK starting the following year will become available at the beginning of May each year.
Students typically begin preparing for university applications in the Spring before their final school year, researching courses and participating in work placements to gain insight into potential careers.
While students can start their applications at this stage, submission does not open until the following September.
From March to July, UCAS will host exhibitions across the UK offering students the chance to engage directly with university representatives, explore different institutions, and gather information on various courses.
UCAS applications officially open in September, allowing students to submit their completed applications.
All sections must be completed in full, with references added and the application fee paid.
While schools and colleges often assist with this process, students can also apply independently.
September is also when most universities, including Queen's, hold their Open Days , giving students a chance to visit and explore their chosen institutions before submitting an application.
It's important to note that Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary Medicine/Science courses have early deadlines.
If you're applying to Medicine or Dentistry courses at Queen's, your application will need to be submitted before the October deadline to be considered.
Students not applying for these courses will have until the end of January to finalise and submit their UCAS applications.
If you're an international student wishing to apply only to Queen's, you can apply directly to the university.
How to Apply for an Undergraduate Degree at Queen's University Belfast
UCAS applications close for all courses at the end of January.
Often, applications can be sent after this, but universities cannot guarantee they'll give it equal consideration.
UCAS Extra opens in early February, a service offered by UCAS whereby if you've used all five choices on your application, and you're not holding any offers, you could still find a place using UCAS Extra.
This gives students another opportunity to gain a place at university for the coming September.
Over the coming months, you may start to receive offers from your universities and the deadline for universities to make offers is in May.
Reply dates for your offers are based on when you get your last decision from your chosen university or colleges.
Check your application for your personal deadline.
If you're an international student, you will be able to apply for your CAS and Visa once you have accepted an unconditional offer.
In January, our accommodation portfolio and prices will be published on our website, allowing you to find out more about what accommodation is available.
Our accommodation applications will then open in February.
If you have received an offer to study at Queen's and want university accommodation, make sure to apply before the end of June .
During June, we also hold an Open Day where you can visit the campus, meet current students and chat with faculty.
Clearing will open in early July, a service provided by UCAS where universities across the UK, including Queen's, can offer remaining spots on courses.
You can apply through UCAS or directly to the university, but please keep in mind that spaces may be limited.
Results day for students across the UK and Ireland happens in mid-August.
Once results have been released for students, universities will confirm places and the onboarding process will start for all students starting their university journey here at Queen's University Belfast.
Students who have applied to Queen's accommodation will also be notified of their allocation at this stage.
The first week of university is typically in the middle of September.
But before the first week of classes officially commences, the university will host a Welcome Week and other events for students arriving on campus.
We also organise an Airport Welcome with our Student Ambassadors every September for international students.
Once you have registered, your fees will need to be paid.
If you have applied for Student Finance, your fees will be paid directly from Student Finance to the university.
If you are self-funding your studies, more information on payments can be found here .
By October you will be settling into your first few weeks of university life, your new home and potentially a new city .
During your time at Queen's, there are plenty of ways to make new friends, whether that's through one of our clubs and societies, joining Facebook or Instagram groups for Queen's Students, on your course or in your student accommodation.
We also have a wealth of support services available in One Elmwood to help you adjust to university life.
All that's left to do now, is enjoy your time at Queen's University Belfast!
Business Management student Connie discusses what led her to choose Queen's via UCAS and move to Belfast from the Republic of Ireland.
International Relations and Politics student Emily discusses what led her to choose Queen's and why she wanted to attend a university abroad.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/How-to-apply:
From selecting your course to navigating the application process and finally arriving in Belfast, this comprehensive guide leads you through each stage toward your enrollment at Queen's University.
Here at Queen’s, we have a diverse range of undergraduate courses and on the individual course pages, you will find more information about entry requirements.
International students can find information on entry requirements specific to their country/region here .
Browse our full range of courses.
If English is not your first language, you must be able to demonstrate your competence in written and spoken English to benefit fully from the chosen course of study.
Find out more about English language requirements .
Applications for full-time undergraduate degree programmes in the UK must be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
All students can register for the online application facility on the UCAS website .
If you’re in school or college when applying to UCAS, they may provide you with a ‘buzzword’ that you need to enter when registering as it will automatically link you to that centre.
If you’re applying independently (not through a school or college), you can still register without a buzzword.
Students can only apply directly to the university if:
We have local advisers worldwide who can provide you with information about studying in the UK.
They can also help you with your UCAS and visa application.
Find an adviser in your country
If you do not meet the entry requirements, you may wish to consider a preparation course at Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre, which will prepare you for successful study in our degree programmes.
Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre is based on the University campus and offers a varied range of courses.
Further information can be found on the Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre website.
The UCAS application system opens in September for entry to university the following year and once you have registered, you will be able to start your application.
Your application can be completed in stages, and you can apply before getting your final exam results.
When completing your application, it's important to remember that universities take everything - not just your exam results - into consideration, so if you have any previous employment or life experience that is relevant, be sure to include it in your application.
For the application form, you will need to include:
If you're hoping to apply for a course at Queen's, the code name is QBELF and the number is Q75 .
Here are the important dates you will need for 2025 entry applications:
* UCAS Extra: You can use this service if you have used all five choices and are not holding an offer.
The Queen’s Admissions Office can be contacted via intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk.
Please provide the application reference number displayed on the submission of the application.
Please refer to this guide for help on how to complete your direct application .
Once your application is submitted, you will receive a welcome email from UCAS that includes details of how to use the UCAS system to check your application’s progress.
Many students may be considering deferring university entry until the following year to gain work experience or travel.
At Queen’s, most of our courses (except for Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work) are happy to consider applications from students wishing to defer their year of entry.
If you decide to apply for deferred entry, then you should tell us what you plan to do during your Gap Year in the personal statement section of your UCAS application.
If you’re looking to defer your application after you have applied, get in touch with our admissions team and we can discuss moving your entry date to the following year.
If your application is submitted by the 29th of January 2025, the deadline for universities to make offers is 14th May 2025 – however, you may receive an outcome before this deadline.
Your application can have three possible outcomes which are:
Now that you have received your offers, you need to reply by choosing a university course that will be your first choice (UCAS refer to this as your firm choice) and a course that will be your second choice (UCAS refer to this as your insurance).
Be aware that there are deadlines for replying to your offers which can be found in your UCAS hub.
If you find yourself without any offers there is no reason to worry as you can still apply through UCAS Extra before 4th July 2025 - a free service that allows you to keep applying for higher education courses even if you’ve used up your five original choices or apply through Clearing.
Some students may change their minds about what they want to study or where they want to study – and if this happens to you, then you can apply for different courses through UCAS Extra or Clearing.
If you haven’t managed to get a university place by 5th July 2025, you can apply to Queen’s University through Clearing .
Clearing is when universities across the UK, including Queen’s, advertise any courses that still have spaces on their website or through UCAS.
Applications for courses available in Clearing can be completed via UCAS or by applying directly to the university.
Please be aware that course options may be limited at this time.
All students are required to complete online registration at the start of each academic year via the Qsis Registration Portal.
As a new student, you will receive a welcome email with full instructions from late August onwards on how to register.
Starting university is an exciting and busy time, and to help you settle in we have created a welcome guide that includes everything you need to know from setting up a bank account and registering with a doctor to where the best places are to shop.
Once you arrive, you can join in on our Freshers Week run by our Students Union.
There is a full schedule of activities throughout the week that will help you settle into QUB and make new friends.
All that's left to do now is enjoy your time at Queen's University Belfast!
If the above has not answered all your questions or worries, here are some of the most common questions we get asked about the entire application process:
An undergraduate open day is the best way to get a taste of life at Queen’s.
If you want to get to know more about the university and what life as a student is like in Belfast, then we recommend coming along to our open days.
Keep up to date with our upcoming events and open days .
If you can’t make it to our open days in person, you can also take a virtual tour of the campus , chat with current students or attend virtual events .
While researching courses, it’s also important to research what it’s like to live in Northern Ireland.
If you’re not familiar with Belfast, we have a dedicated guide to help you better understand what it’s like to live in the city and study at Queen’s.
If you can’t make it to our open days but still want to visit the campus, you can always book one of our campus tours led by our Student Ambassadors.
During these tours, you will see where you’ll study and live, and the facilities you will get to use as part of your student experience.
Our Campus Tours run on Mondays and Fridays at 10 am, 12 pm and 2 pm – book your place here .
Please note that our Campus Tours are generic and not subject-specific.
If you want to live in Queen’s accommodation, applications open in February and you can find more information on how to apply here .
Student accommodation allocations will commence in August.
As a first year student from Northern Ireland, you are not guaranteed accommodation – allocations will be based on distance lived from the campus with priority to students living further from campus.
Many students from Northern Ireland typically find private accommodation close to the campus or choose to live at home and commute to university.
As a first year student, you are guaranteed Queen’s accommodation, provided you have firmly accepted your university offer and have submitted an online application for accommodation by 30 June 2025.
Eligible NI students will be able to borrow the full cost of tuition from the Government in the form of a tuition fee loan, you can apply online for this and it will be paid directly to the university or college.
Once you register with the university, the first payment will be made.
Eligible ROI students will qualify for a tuition fee loan, you can apply online for this and it will be paid directly to the university or college.
If you are self-funding your studies, you can find out more information here.
Eligible GB students will be able to borrow the full cost of tuition from the Government in the form of a tuition fee loan, you can apply online for this, and it will be paid directly to the university or college.
You’ll be asked to pay your tuition fees as part of your registration.
For more information on international student fees, check out our fees page .
To make your arrival as swift as possible, the university arranges set pick-up days to welcome you to the city.
Our student guides will be available at the airport to welcome you to Belfast and point you in the right direction.
We also host a welcome week every year to help you settle in, meet new people and familiarise yourself with everything available on campus.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/events:
Register now for upcoming events.
These will provide you with the knowledge you need to make an informed choice about your future learning.
If you can't make an event, check out the 'Life at the Lanyon' podcast series.
This podcast will give you a real insight into life at Queen's, provide you with useful information and hopefully allow you to have a bit of a laugh.
Get a real insight into what being a student at Queen’s University is all about.
Hear interesting stories and insights from current students, staff and special guests, to allow you to make an informed decision about studying with us at Queen's.
Episodes will cover; making the most of open days, applying to university, finding your ideal job, our students' union, living in Belfast and much more!
Listen and subscribe via our YouTube Channel , Spotify , or Apple Podcasts .
Find out more!
Find out about the support available for GB students, our generous scholarship, what it's like moving to Belfast, how to embrace University life and learn some key local phrases from Northern Ireland!
Find out how you can your voice heard through SU Voice, volunteering through SU Volunteer, enhancing your business skills and growing your own business through SU Enterprise, or seeking support from SU Advice, the Students' Union is there for you.
Find out about the amazing clubs and societies at Queen's, what roles are available, how you can get involved and what it means to be in a club or society.
From sports clubs, to gaming, and Taylor Swift, there is a club or society for everyone!

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/Fees-and-scholarships:
Tuition fees, payment options, and applying for a student loan.
Read the full details here
Full details on all available scholarships.
Got a question about student finance?
Read more
See how far your money can go in Belfast
Cost of living
Student Support Fund
University bursaries

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/careers-and-employability:
You will have full access to and support for up-to-date resources and networks, enabling you to develop your skills and confidence, take advantage of opportunities including studying abroad, and work experience to prepare you for that graduate job.
Our Careers Consultants provide impartial and confidential career information, advice and guidance.
We do this through 30 minute one-to-one career consultations.
These can be done either online or face-to-face in the Queen's University Belfast One Elmwood Student Centre.
There is a Career Consultant aligned to each school in the University, so you'll often see us out and about in your classes, supporting the delivery of careers and employability within the curriculum.
Our team will enable you to:
The Future-Ready Roadmap can help you develop new skills, explore the right opportunities, build your support network and gain the confidence to realise your ambitions.
It's designed to help you progress your employability throughout your time at Queen’s.
Everything we offer is clearly linked to the Future-Ready Roadmap so you can see where your gaps are, chart your progress and plan your future.
Find out more about the Future-Ready Roadmap .
MyFuture is an online careers management tool available to all Queen’s students.
You can use it to search and apply for jobs, book onto careers-enhancing programmes, check your CV, register for events and to access one-to-one careers support.
Find out more about MyFuture .
View more Careers and Global Opportunities blogs →
Find out more about the Future-Ready Award .
Our Careers programmes are designed to encourage you to try new things, meet new people and build relevant skills and experience, both at home and overseas.
Our broad range of activities range from skills workshops and global opportunities workshops, to employer panels and careers fairs.
Attending these events can help with all aspects of planning your future, from developing your employability to succeeding in graduate recruitment.
A lot of our events are held in the Cube on the first floor in One Elmwood Student Centre.
Check out our Careers events listing to register for current Careers events and programmes.
Every year over 900 Queen's students take the opportunity to go outside Northern Ireland to study or gain work-related experience.
All Queen’s students have access to a range of life-changing travel opportunities suited to every study level and discipline.
Our dedicated Global Opportunities team are here to keep you updated on the wealth of work and study abroad opportunities available to you.
We support outgoing and incoming students to ensure you enjoy and benefit from the experience.
Find out more on our global opportunities webpage .
We prize entrepreneurship and academic ability.
We also work with the team of enterprise advisors in the Students’ Union who are there to support students in starting businesses, through free advice, incubation space, enterprise programmes and competitions.
See how Enterprise SU can help you get your business started.
Student blog: How SU Enterprise Helped Me Start My Business
Queen's is working in partnership with local, national and global industries.
Employers attend events on campus at regular intervals for Careers Fairs, Employer Panels, Pop Up events, and other skill development sessions, supporting early student engagement.
Our Summer internship programme and Work Shadowing Week programme also offer insights into how organisations operate, preparing you for the world of work.
Many Employers also list their own events on our Careers management tool MyFuture, which Queen's students can log on to in order to find our more and register.
Find out more about our Careers Fairs .
Find out more about Summer Internships and Work Shadowing Week .
We have over 200 student societies organised by and for students and if there’s nothing you fancy you can always start up your own!
Hone your talents, meet like-minded people and develop skills to impress employers by joining a club or society.
You can even get credit towards a Future-Ready Award accreditation if you help out with the management of a club or society.
Take a look at the range of Clubs and Societies on offer at Queen’s.
Volunteering will help you meet new friends, have loads of fun, boost your CV and get a well-earned break from your university work.
You can also get it formally accredited by earning Future-Ready Award credits while volunteering.
Whatever you’re passionate about, there's a volunteering opportunity that's right for you.
Take a look at what’s on offer on our Volunteering page .
As the UK’s 9th oldest University, our history is rich with brilliant leaders, inspiring thinkers and incredible achievers who have been shaping a better world since 1845.
Read more about our high-achieving graduates on our Alumni page .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/Studying-at-Queens:
Described by The Sunday Times as ‘Ireland’s Oxbridge’, the quality of teaching is recognised as being of the highest standard.
Our students are taught by academics passionate about the latest discoveries in their fields.
Informed by exceptional teaching, all of our degree programmes come with a promise to produce world-class graduates.
Queen's is ranked as one of the top 200 universities in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Queen’s is a member of the Russell Group, an independent body of 24 top-ranking, research-led UK universities.
This marks Queen’s as one of the most exceptional teaching universities in the country, alongside heavyweights such as Oxford, Cambridge, and Imperial College London.
and to ensure all our students feel fully engaged.
In lectures debate and discussion are actively encouraged.
Our teaching is informed by our research, which is of national and international standing.
This means we constantly push the boundaries, introducing new ways of thinking into our teaching and assessment.
We have embraced the latest equipment and tools to deliver on our promise of value to students while maintaining traditional teaching models.
You can access lectures over the Internet, or download them to your mobile or tablet.
Our flexible teaching areas accommodate a wide range of teaching and learning styles.
The award-winning McClay Library has been designed for the 21st century, encompassing striking open plan architecture with the very latest in educational technology.
It gives students a quiet, private environment when they need but also the chance to learn and embrace a raft of skills in preparation for the workplace.
We are dedicated to helping each of our graduates think of life after Queen's, and gain practical experience during their time with us.
This is why many of our degree programmes feature a year in industry either locally or abroad.
Our students benefit from the links we have built up with some of the country's biggest employers.
Over 25,000 students live and study at Queen’s.
Of those, more than 4,400 are from over 90 countries; including Malaysia, China, India, the Middle East and the United States.
17% of the Queen’s student population are international students (Queen’s Planning Office, 2024).
A UK-wide research assessment of higher education institutions, REF confirmed that 99 per cent of the University's research is world-class or internationally leading.
"I chose Queen’s because of the sheer amount of research happening at The Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research.
This up-to-the-minute research informs our lectures, and we then have a chance to apply what we’ve learned in a real-world setting through hospital-based teaching.
Doctors nowadays are more than just doctors, they are clinical researchers, too.
I gained valuable insight into the biomedical research at the Centre as part of a summer studentship.
This gave me the opportunity to interact daily with leading researchers and scientists in the labs who were happy to give their time to teach and guide me.
It was inspiring to be in an environment where medical breakthroughs are made literally every week.
I now feel confident that I would like to have a research aspect to my daily clinical life.
I want to be a part of the upcoming generation of medical researchers making a difference in the world.”
Tejas Harita Bachelor of Medicine undergraduate

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/student-life/Support-and-wellbeing:
At Queen's, we want you to make the most of your time here and reach your full potential.
Our network of support services is dedicated to helping you throughout your university journey.
Our support teams can help you look after your health, emotional wellbeing, education, study needs, financial security, and future career.
We have a range of specialist services and sources of advice and guidance available to you throughout your time in Belfast.
Find out more about our services and how you can get in touch with our teams below:
The Student Centre is the first place to visit for information, support, advice and guidance including:
Learn more about One Elmwood Student Centre
Our team can help you with in-course support, exam requirements and assistance with applications for the Disabled Students' Allowance.
The Student Wellbeing Team are on hand to offer a friendly and comprehensive range of support services.
Our Careers team are committed to ensuring you have access to the right experiences to develop future-ready skills.
Queen's starts providing international student support before arrival.
Our Immigration Support Service Team can help you make the most of your time here.
New students are invited to orientation sessions that outline the IT facilities and services available to them.
Offering a range of childcare support, including full-time day care, out-of-school care and a summer activities scheme.
Our chaplains and other religious representatives serve students and staff across 12 faiths and denominations.
The University Health Centre at Queen's General Practice can provide NHS and non-NHS services for students.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/Register:
Register your details below and we’ll stay in touch with regular updates on studying at Queen’s, including information on courses, information events, accommodation and funding opportunities:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/Global-opportunities:
Every year over 800 Queen's students take the opportunity to go outside Northern Ireland to study or gain work related experience.
Whilst overseas you’ll load up on confidence and independence.
You’ll experience the colour of life elsewhere.
You’ll enrich your own journey.
Queen’s encourages students to take advantage of a period of study at an overseas university or an international work placement as part of their degree.
Some degrees (especially those with a language element) include a compulsory year abroad.
These are generally four-year courses, during which you will spend a year either studying at a partner university or on work placement with an employer.
Many other degrees offer the option of participating in a study exchange scheme for one or two semesters, usually in your second year.
The ‘semester abroad’ option will allow you to graduate within the usual three years.
There are also lots of summer options available, when a longer period abroad is not possible.
Studying or working abroad will enhance your employability, broaden your cultural awareness and boost your self-confidence and resilience.
From Belfast to the World: My Queen’s Experience
My First Month Studying Abroad: Toulouse Edition
Take the Leap Next Summer: My Quantum Summer School Experience
How I Got a Fully Funded Scholarship to America
The Erasmus programme has been replaced with the Turing Scheme .
The scheme is the UK’s global programme for studying, working and living abroad, offering once-in-a-lifetime opportunities for personal and professional development for students.
Queen’s also has a growing range of options outside of Europe, including programmes in Australia, Canada, China, India, New Zealand and the USA.
The Careers, Employability and Skills service or your School can help you to research your options.
Advanced language skills are not always necessary in order to study abroad – many of the University’s European partners teach in English, as well as the University’s partners in North America and Australasia.
All students – not just those studying Modern Languages – are strongly encouraged to enhance their language skills and many choose to attend the University’s Language Centre, located within the McClay Library, before they go abroad.
Please visit The Language Centre Website for more details.
If your semester or year studying abroad is a recognised part of your degree programme, whether compulsory or optional, you should still be entitled to your student loan whilst overseas.
Students going on an Erasmus exchange to Europe also normally receive an Erasmus grant to help cover their additional costs.
Some semester and summer programmes are eligible for a University travel grant.
Students who undertake an international study placement are eligible to apply for the placement to be considered towards the Queen’s Future-Ready Award.
The Award provides official recognition of the non-academic benefits of an international study placement, such as improved employability skills, global and cultural awareness and increased self-confidence and motivation.
Business and management opportunities
Spend a full academic year at an American College or University studying Business and Management.
Each year between 50-60 students from Northern Ireland participate in the Study USA programme which has been running since 1994.
Study USA ➤
North American exchange
Queen’s has exchange opportunities with universities in Canada and Australia.
Your year or semester abroad will replace the similar period at Queen's and the courses will count towards your UG degree.
To maximise your chances of getting a place on the programme, register for an Information Session on MyFuture.
Speak with returning students and find out about the application process.
Canadian and Australian study ➤
Experience the real China
The Generation UK Programme offers students a unique opportunity to experience Chinese life, culture, language and business.
During the three week programme you will interact with Chinese students, academic staff, local families and businesses, providing profound access to this fascinating country.
Your Study China experience will not be confined to classroom learning.
Through a curriculum of workshops, trips and excursions you will be introduced to the real China.
Generation UK ➤
Study in Europe
The Turing Scheme is a competitive grant funding scheme.
It provides grants to fund individuals undertaking education and training in the UK, to go on study or work placements across the world.
You can not apply directly for Turing funding.
We at Queen's University Belfast apply for funding, then depending on how much we receive, we will contact all eligible students.
We cannot guarantee who will receive Turing funding at this point.
Turing Scheme (study abroad) ➤
Be a leader
The Washington Ireland Program (WIP) inspires and develops promising leaders through a program of personal development, policy debate and community service.
From start to finish, the programme encompasses 12 months.
There are 3 Phases to the programme – Pre-Departure & Preparation in Ireland (either Belfast or Dublin), Placement Phase in Washington D.C.
for 8 weeks and Community Service & Advocacy upon returning home.
Washington Ireland Programme ➤
Develop your business knowledge
The US-NI Mentorship Programme is a one-year work placement for recent graduates from Northern Ireland to work with leading corporations in the United States of America.
The graduates have demonstrated academic promise and an interest in developing entrepreneurship and management skills.
Their goal is to be able to return home with the skills and experience to start businesses and become business leaders in their communities.
US-NI Mentorship Programme ➤
Work in America
Spend the summer working in the USA to gain further knowledge in your chosen field of study.
Students at all levels are eligible, provided you are returning to study the following September.
Applications from students of any degree background are welcome.
Project Children ➤
Get paid to train abroad
IAESTE provides students from mainly science, engineering and technology disciplines with paid, course-related, technical training abroad.
It aims to promote international understanding and goodwill.
IAESTE are available in industrial and commercial organisations, research institutes, local government bodies, state enterprises, consultancies, laboratories and academic institutions.
Normally the placements are for 6 weeks to 12 months.
IAESTE ➤
See the world
Spend 2 months next year interning in an industry of your choice in one of the world's most fascinating countries!
With 6 exciting locations and over 15 different industry sectors to choose from, whether that's business, engineering, law, marketing, design etc., there's a wealth of experience and adventure waiting at your feet!

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/key-contacts:
PHONE: +44 (0)28 9097 1323
UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS
Find contact details for University Schools, Academic Support and other Administrative Departments:
UNIVERSITY FACULTIES
For queries on course information, timetables or course representatives, contact:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/download-prospectus:
Complete the short form below for instant access to our digital prospectus.
You will also find it in your inbox later.
Our digital prospectus gives an overview of the variety of courses we have on offer as well as the opportunity to find out about our campus facilities, our rich history of groundbreaking achievements and the support you'll receive while studying.
Choosing to study at Queen’s could be one of the best decisions you make.
We’re a Russell Group university that prioritises academic excellence, meaning a relevant and valuable degree for you.
If you would like to receive a hard copy, please email studentrecruitment@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Undergraduate/mature-students:
It's never too late to start your university journey.
Whether you're returning to education after some time away or you're hoping to take your career in a different direction, we welcome applications from mature students (anyone over the age of 21) to apply for our courses.
Queen's University uses the HESA definition of mature students with undergraduates classed as "mature if they are 21 or over." We particularly encourage applications from mature students, and we welcome on average approximately 800 new students every year.
Here at Queen's University Belfast, mature students make up approximately 10% of the total undergraduate population.
We understand the wide range of reasons why students may pursue education later in life, and whatever the reason, we are here to support you.
Find out what life is really like as a mature student at Queen's University:
All students, including mature students, can apply for undergraduate degrees in the UK through UCAS.
For more information on how to apply for an undergraduate degree at Queen's, visit our how to apply guide where we have detailed everything from navigating the application process to your first day at Queen's.
If you're worried about not having the right grades for an undergraduate degree, you still have plenty of options.
You can study a foundation degree or other higher education qualification at one of Northern Ireland's six further education colleges or local institutions, then progress to complete your degree at Queen's.
Routes to University
Financing university is a concern for many mature students, however, as a mature student you may be eligible to apply for student finance.
The amount of funding you will receive will depend on factors such as household income, whether you're studying full or part-time, and whether you already have a degree.
Financing university
Queen's also has a range of student support funds to help students.
You can find full details of them by clicking here.
Uversity offers scholarships for mature students entering undergraduate study for the first time.
Applications for these scholarships open early February, and more information can be found here.
Students who wish to work while studying can check out QWork, our a platform that advertises a range of flexible, part-time on campus jobs that students can apply for.
Student wellbeing is important to us.
As a mature student, you might face some challenges when returning to education and we have the support available to help you with the transition.
We also have childcare support options for both our staff and students, with student rates available.
Find out more about our support services .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Undergraduate/offer-holders:
We are thrilled to offer you a place to study at Queen's University Belfast.
As you prepare for this exciting new chapter, there’s a lot to consider—from accepting your offer to getting ready for registration in September.
Rest assured, we’re here to support you every step of the way.
Explore your accommodation options at Queen's University Belfast and the steps you need to take to apply.
All the information you need to get started with Student Finance and explore our scholarships.
We want your university journey to be as smooth as possible.
Explore the support available to you as a Queen's University Student.
Are you an International student or a student coming from GB or the ROI?
Watch our latest student life reels and connect with other new students.
As an offer holder, you’ll have the chance to attend a variety of in-person and virtual events designed to help you decide if Queen’s University Belfast is the right fit for you.
These subject-specific events provide a fantastic opportunity to learn more about your course, connect with fellow students, and explore the vibrant city where you’ll be studying.
UNDERGRADUATE EVENTS
Get an insider’s perspective on life in Belfast straight from our students.
Whether you’re new to the city or have lived in Northern Ireland all your life, our vibrant student community is here to help you make the most of your time at Queen’s.
Struggling with making your final uni decision?
Our students reveal why they settled on Queen’s and Belfast as their firm choice.
Charlotte shares her reasons for choosing Queen's and why it was the perfect decision for her.
Valerie tells us why she chose Queen's as her firm choice.
At Queen’s Accommodation, we don’t just provide first-class student rooms, we offer a jam-packed social schedule to help you make friends.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/belfast/student-living-costs:
As a student, you will have different living costs depending on where you live, your lifestyle choices, and whether you have any financial commitments or dependents.
This is why it's important to consider what your living costs are likely to be during your time at university so you can budget and manage your money effectively.
The costs highlighted on this page should be used as a guide only.
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024)
Queen's is ranked 3rd in the UK for value for money (StudentCrowd University Awards 2025)
£178 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024)
As students and staff face into a winter of financial uncertainty, it has been our priority to develop a series of measures to support the Queen’s community including;
Find out more on the Cost of Living site
See how Queen's compares with other Universities in key costs, including accommodation, weekly household bills, travel expenses and tuition fees.
As an international student, you will need a student visa to study in the UK.
The earliest you can apply for your visa is 6 months before you start your course.
See information on student visas and additional costs .
In some cases, you may need to show you have a certain amount of money to meet your living costs - so be sure you're aware of any documentation required before arriving in the UK .
If you're a full-time undergraduate student from the UK, you can apply for a maintenance loan to help with your living expenses.
The loan is unlikely to cover all your university living expenses, which is why many students also take on part-time work to help fund their studies.
Scholarships, bursaries, and grants don't have to be repaid and can make a huge difference to your student budget.
Extra funding is awarded for all sorts of reasons, not just for top achievers and straight-A students - explore scholarships and additional funding available at Queen's .
Many shops and restaurants in Belfast will offer student discounts - so don't be afraid to ask if it's available.
If you want to take advantage of exclusive student savings, head over to our student discount page for more information.
Student-friendly budget calculators are an effective way of helping you figure out how much money you'll have to spend each month.
We recommend students try out the UCAS Student Budget Planner to help manage their finances.
Speak to our Student Union Advice Team
SU Advice, we have a dedicated team of advisers with a wealth of experience to help you with any issues you may be having - funding your studies included.
Advice is free, confidential, and completely impartial and independent from the university.
Find out more about drop-in services .
Student financial support
If you’re experiencing financial difficulty during your time at university, we have dedicated student financial support available such as the Student Support Fund and University Financial Assistance Fund.
Find out more about financial support available here .
Money managing resources
If you need additional support regarding managing your money while at university, here are our recommended resources:
Save on travel with Translink
If you're aged between 16-23 years old in Northern Ireland, you can apply for a yLink smartcard for all which gets you 50% off Translink bus and rail travel, as well as up to 50% off Belfast to Dublin Enterprise services.
Over 24 and in full-time education?
Apply for the free 24+ Student Railcard and access great savings on NI Railways services, as well as Enterprise services to Dublin.
Getting around the city
Using local taxis?
If you happen to jump into a Value Cabs make sure you ask for a receipt as they offer a Receipt Treats scheme which gives exclusive offers and discounts with a wide range of local businesses, just present a Value Cabs receipt within 7 days of your journey!
Should I commute to university?
As a student from Northern Ireland, you may be wondering whether to move into university accommodation, privately rent in Belfast or live at home and make the commute to campus to help keep monthly costs down.
We have many students who decided to live at home during their time at university, hear about their experience:
A guide to living with your parents while at Queen's | Stay at home and have a great student experience
As a student in Belfast, you will be able to find part-time work opportunities in the city centre and on campus.
Working part-time while studying can be a great way to gain experience that will be beneficial when it comes to applying for graduate jobs and offer an additional source of income.
If you're an international student, you may be able to work up to 20 hours per week during term time (this does not affect work placements that are part of your course) - rules around working while studying in Northern Ireland will be outlined in your visa.
There are also opportunities to work on campus, and feedback has shown that working for our university departments can be beneficial to students as we can work with you to help you balance your studies.
Find out more about the opportunities available on campus .
A budget for books will be dependent on your course, lecturers will advise on recommended reading lists.
Before you go ahead and buy brand-new books, it's a good idea to check the university's library as many key texts will be available online or to borrow.
As well as that, you may be able to pick up the books second-hand for a cheaper price.
Some courses may have additional costs for field trips, events, or supplies.
Any additional costs for your chosen course will be detailed under the ‘Fees and Funding’ section on Course Finder.
As a Queen's student, you will also get access to free Microsoft 365 software.
"I was pleasantly surprised by the cost of living in Belfast.
The student halls are very cheap in comparison to other UK universities accommodation.
You can feed yourself for very little which means you’ve more money to do other things in Belfast." Jacob Robinson, Newcastle
Read more: Dealing with the Cost of Living: A GB Student’s Perspective
Read more: Budgeting and Money Saving Tips for Students
Read more: The Affordable Student Experience: Belfast vs London vs Manchester
Read more: Unlocking Belfast: Maximising your Student Discounts
Read more Cost of Living blogs

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/connect/chat-with-students:
Find out what life at Queen's is like by chatting to some of our current students, viewing their latest updates in the 'Content' tab , or seeing their answers to the most commonly asked questions about student life in 'FAQs' .

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/belfast/queens-quarter:
Queen's Quarter is one of the most vibrant districts in Belfast, and is also the heart of our student community.
In between or after lectures, you can go for a walk through the tranquil Botanic gardens right next door to campus, marvel at some of the best Irish art in the Ulster Museum, take in an art-house movie at the QFT, relax in one of the many cool coffee shops or enjoy stand-up comedy at The Empire.
Don't just take our word for how great Queen's Quarter is, hear it from our students.
The Queen's Quarter isn't short of fantastic food places to try.
Whether you're craving a quick bite to eat between lectures or looking for somewhere to unwind with friends, our students have you covered with their favourite coffee shops, lunch spots and restaurants close to campus.
Top Ten Cafes Within Walking Distance of Queen’s The Best Lunch Spots Around Queen's Campus Belfast’s Best Bites: Vegan and Vegetarian Edition
For those with a penchant for nostalgia and sustainability, the area surrounding the university boasts an eclectic mix of vintage and charity shops, offering pre-loved clothing gems.
The area also has great spots for hunting for vintage vinyl records, second-hand books, and quirky home decor for your student accommodation.
If you're a bookworm, don't forget to stop by the independent bookstore No Alibis (they offer student discount!).
Further from campus is the Lisburn Road, which has a great mix of charity shops and higher-end labels.
You can dive right into the local arts and culture scene while studying at Queen's, from captivating galleries such as the Naughton Gallery and the Ulster Museum, to the nearby cinematic gem known as the QFT (Queen's Film Theatre), they're all within a short walk from the Lanyon Building and can be a great way to fill gaps in your day or spend an evening after class.
The Best Places to Catch a Film in Belfast
What's on at the Naughton Gallery
You don't need to venture into the city centre to have a good night out.
There's a lively nightlife scene surrounding our campus where vibrant bars, student nights, comedy gigs and table quizzes await.
Whether you're looking for a cosy pub or a night on a dance floor, there's something for everyone a stones throw away.
Keep an eye out for the events hosted in our bar in One Elmwood, with great student offers and student-led events, it's a great way to unwind and connect with other students at Queen's!
What's On at The Union Bar

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Undergraduate/routes-to-university:
Study a foundation degree or other higher education qualification at one of Northern Ireland’s six further education colleges or other local institutions then progress to complete your degree at Queen’s University or other local institutions, or enter full time employment.
The six colleges in Northern Ireland offer a wide range of Higher Education (HE) courses that are closely aligned with industry demand and run in conjunction with other top UK education providers.
Please check directly with colleges if a course is full.
Further Education colleges offer a number of qualifications which allow progression to Ulster University courses.
The OU offers named degree pathways and the cross-curricular Open Degree as progression from FE colleges.
View Courses
Stranmillis University College offers a range of education related programmes for progression from FE Colleges.
St Mary's University College offers degree programmes in teacher education and in Liberal Arts for progression from FE Colleges.
The College of Agriculture, Food and Rural Enterprise (CAFRE) is the specialist college for land-based courses in Northern Ireland.
Click below to view courses grouped by college and location, or view the map below.
Belfast Met is the largest further and Higher Education College in Northern Ireland and one of the largest in the UK.
At Northern Regional College we offer a range of higher education courses giving you a choice in your learning.
Our courses are delivered in our state-of-the-art facilities and campuses, and are designed to develop the specific knowledge and skills required.
At SERC, our Higher Education courses give a great grounding for the next step to your chosen career, whether through employment or further study.
Choosing a Higher Education course at SRC gives you the chance to study close to home, hence saving you money and time!
The South West College operates in four campuses in Cookstown, Dungannon, Enniskillen and Omagh.
Progress directly to Stage 2 of a BEng degree in either Mechanical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering or Product Design Engineering at Queen's , and graduate after a further two years of study.
Or progress into full-time employment in the design or mechanical/manufacturing industry.
Progress directly to Stage 2 BSc Biological Sciences at Queen's .
Work in environment organisations and help contribute to solving worldwide problems such as climate change, food supply and security, biodiversity loss and global health issues.
Here is an example of a typical route.
You start by studying a two-year foundation degree at a regional college.
If you meet the entry criteria, you can progress to study at a university in Northern Ireland for a further two years and complete a full degree.
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade, students may progress to year 2 of BSc Hons Computing Science; BSc Hons Computing Technologies; or BEng Hons Software Engineering at Ulster University.
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade, students may progress to Year 2 of BEng (Hons) Software Engineering with Professional Experience, BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Professional Experience and BSc (Hons) Computing and Information Technology with Professional Experience at Queen's.
Upon completion of this course and depending on final grade, students may progress to year 2 of the BEng Hons Mechatronic Engineering at university.
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade, students may progress to year 2 of the BA/BSc (Hons) in Game Design.
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade, students may progress to the final year of the BSc (Hons) in Health and Wellbeing or the BSc (Hons) Applied Health Studies at Ulster University.
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade , students may progress to the second year of a relevant music degree (there is an agreement for articulation from the course to the second year of the Music Technology Degree at Queen's).
On successful completion of this course and depending on final grade , students may be eligible to apply for entry into year 2 of the BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise Science or BSc (Hons) Sports Studies (with required average mark of 65%).
Any student who has successfully completed a Foundation Degree in any subject area is eligible to register on The Open University Open Degree at Stage 3 after going through the formal credit transfer process.
Hundreds of students follow this path each year.
Find out how current students and alumni have experienced these course options.
“I struggled with A-levels and when I realised I wasn’t going to achieve the grades to get into Queen’s, I didn’t know what I was going to do.
I was able to do the Foundation Degree rather than repeat my A-Levels and am finding it an amazing programme.”
“I spend four days per week with my employer in Kilrea and the remaining day in NRC's Ballymena campus.
The work experience is increasing my knowledge and expertise, and get the edge in an increasingly competitive job market.
Working and studying mean I can also earn as I learn - so I'm not running up student debt.
When I complete my HLA and Foundation Degree, I plan to study Computing at university and work as a software developer”
“I have gained so much experience and knowledge studying on the Foundation Degree – it helped me secure part-time employment in Little Wing.
I am able to apply what I am learning on the course to what I am doing in my job and am gaining valuable experience.
In September 2021 I will join the final year of the BSc International Hospitality Management.
I would definitely recommend SERC and the Foundation Degree route.”
“My experience at South West College was nothing less than exceptional, as it provided me with excellent opportunities to progress in my chosen career path.
All of the lecturing staff at the College were extremely friendly and helpful from the outset, giving me guidance and encouragement when I needed it.
My experience and success at South West College has given me the confidence to take the opportunity to progress with my career.”
“I applied for a Higher Level Apprenticeship as I thought it was a great opportunity to gain work experience and get paid while studying towards a qualification.
There is only so much you can learn from a textbook!
The course provides an alternative entrance route to starting your career in the accountancy and finance profession.
It is also equivalent to a Level 5 Foundation Degree programme and is recognised by leading accountancy bodies.
I have developed confidence in myself and my skills.
”
Get a world class education, close to home, while enjoying a low cost of living and a vibrant social life.
Northern Ireland Colleges and Universities have extremely competitive higher education fees in comparison to the rest of the UK.
Studying close to home will help you to save on living expenses; allowing you to fully enjoy your time in higher education.
By staying within NI you’ll remain close to your support network of family and friends.
The academic qualifications awarded by NI Colleges and Universities are recognised worldwide.
NI Colleges and Universities develop course content in partnership with local employers, providing you with the skills local employers want.
High numbers of local graduates obtain employment or go onto further study.
By staying local you will contribute to the NI economy, helping us grow and build for our future.
Queen’s University Belfast is not responsible for the content or accuracy of external websites.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/postgraduate/tuition-fees:
The below figures are for 2025/26 entry.
Work out your fee status/category
The standard postgraduate taught tuition fees for 2025-26 are as follows:
NI 1 / ROI 2 Standard Postgraduate Taught: £7,300
GB 1 Standard Postgraduate Taught: £9,250
EXCEPTIONS: PREMIUM MASTERS COURSES, DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES
Note that fees will differ for Premium Masters Courses and postgraduate diplomas and certificates.
Prospective students should refer to qub.ac.uk/courses for course costs and tuition fees.
1 EU citizens in the EU Settlement Scheme, with settled or pre-settled status, are charged the NI or GB tuition fee based on where they are ordinarily resident.
Students who are ROI nationals resident in GB are charged the GB fee.
2 ROI nationals resident in ROI will be eligible for NI tuition fees, in line with the Common Travel Agreement arrangements.
EU Other students (excludes Republic of Ireland nationals living in GB, NI or ROI) are charged tuition fees in line with international fees.
The standard full-time tuition fee for postgraduate research students from Northern Ireland 1 , Republic of Ireland 2 and Great Britain 3 for 2024-25 was £4,786 and will normally be subject to a small inflationary uplift for 2025-26.
The fee will be calculated on a monthly basis, pro-rated for the academic year, based on the month a student commences study.
Part-time Part-time research students are assessed, as such, on the basis that they are studying less than 21 hours per week, over a period of more than 18 weeks, on the course of study.
The tuition fee is calculated at 50% of the full-time tuition fee.
Thesis A student who has completed research and is engaged in writing up a thesis will be charged a thesis only charge of £360 (2024-25 figure).
1 EU citizens in the EU Settlement Scheme, with settled or pre-settled status, will be charged the NI or GB tuition fee based on where they are ordinarily resident.
Students who are ROI nationals resident in GB will be charged the GB fee.
3 EU Other students (excludes Republic of Ireland nationals living in GB, NI or ROI) are charged tuition fees in line with international fees.
A number of options are available to pay tuition fees.
See more details: Pay your Tuition Fees .
Queries on the terms and conditions of the payment options should be directed to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
For some courses, students are required to purchase instruments, equipment or attend field courses, the cost of which is additional to tuition fees.
Information on additional course costs is available at https://www.qub.ac.uk/courses/
The payment of deposits for one year postgraduate taught courses is mandatory for international students.
Details will be communicated by the Admissions and Access Service.
If the student’s visa application is successful, but the student chooses not to accept his/her place at the University, the deposit will not be refunded.
The standard tuition fees for international and EU* postgraduate students, commencing a course in 2025-26, are as follows: (FR = Fee Rate)
INTERNATIONAL TAUGHT FR1 (classroom based courses) £21,500 FR2 (laboratory based courses) £25,800
RESEARCH FR1 (classroom based courses) £20,500 FR2 (laboratory based courses) £25,600
EXCEPTIONS
Tuition fees quoted are for study in the academic year 2025-26 only.
Tuition fees are subject to annual inflationary increases.
Information on how tuition fees are calculated is available in the Student Finance Framework
*EU students who commence study from 2022-23 onwards (excludes Republic of Ireland nationals living in GB, NI or ROI) are charged tuition fees in line with international fees.
EU citizens in the EU Settlement Scheme, with settled or pre-settled status, will be charged the NI or GB tuition fee based on where they are ordinarily resident.
Students who are ROI nationals resident in GB will be expected to be charged the GB fee.
ROI nationals resident in ROI will be eligible for NI tuition fees, in line with the Common Travel Agreement arrangements.
To confirm the fee rate of a particular course, prospective students should look up the course on qub.ac.uk/courses or contact studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
Some research programmes incur an additional annual charge on top of the tuition fees, often referred to as a bench fee.
Bench fees are charged when a programme (or a specific project) incurs extra costs such as those involved with specialist laboratory or field work.
If you are required to pay bench fees they will be detailed on your offer letter.
If you have any questions about Bench Fees these should be raised with your School at the application stage.
Please note that, if you are being funded you will need to ensure your sponsor is aware of and has agreed to fund these additional costs before accepting your place.
For information on Student Support click here .
For advice on applying for tuition fee and other student loans and student support, contact the Financial Advisor in the Students' Union at studentadvice@qub.ac.uk
Email queries to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
Email queries to graduateschool@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/postgraduate/funding-scholarships:
Often students worry about the cost of postgraduate study, but there are many funding opportunities available for studying in the UK.
From government loans and university scholarships to working while you study.
This guide will set out the funding available from the university and some external sources.
The information provided in this section is not a comprehensive list of funding sources.
Applying for funding available from the University is part of an integrated, online, postgraduate admissions process.
An offer of a place at Queen’s does not constitute an offer of financial support.
For 2025 entry, Faculties and Schools in the University will be setting their own deadlines for postgraduate applications for admissions, studentships, and scholarships.
Applicants who wish to apply for postgraduate funding available from the University for 2025 entry should refer to the relevant Faculty and School websites for information.
Student Finance Northern Ireland provides a non-means-tested loan of up to £6,500 and how much you get will depend on the length and cost of your course.
Postgraduate loans are paid directly to the university, and you will have to repay this loan when you have finished your course and earn over the income threshold.
If you also pay an undergraduate student loan you will make both repayments at the same time.
You will apply to a different funding organisation if you normally live in England , Wales or Scotland .
ROI and EU students can apply through Student Finance NI.
A limited number of scholarships and bursaries will be available for specific courses.
Further details can be found in our scholarships and funding finder .
North-South (Ireland) Postgraduate Scholarships
A limited number of scholarships may be available for outstanding students from the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland to undertake postgraduate study and experience life in the other Irish jurisdiction.
Available to students who have been accepted to undertake a recognised Master’s degree or are entering the first year of a PhD programme at a university in the island of Ireland that is not in the same jurisdiction as the university where they have previously studied.
Further details are found at universitiesireland.ie
Note: where it states ‘UK residents’, please note that qualifying residency and citizenship/nationality criteria apply.
Department For The Economy Postgraduate Research Studentships
Studentships funded by the Department for the Economy (DfE) are offered in a wide range of subject areas across all Faculties and Schools.
UK Residents: fees plus maintenance.
A number of awards are also available for non-UK residents covering fees plus maintenance, these will be identified at point of advertisement
Department For The Economy CoOperative Awards In Science And Technology (CAST) Postgraduate Research Studentships
These studentships funded by the Department for the Economy (DfE – formerly DEL) are for specific research projects in collaboration with an industrial sponsor.
A number of awards are also available for non-UK residents covering fees plus maintenance, these will be identified at point of advertisement.
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC)
A number of EPSRC research studentships may be available for research in eligible areas.
Details will be advertised on the relevant Faculty/ School website at qub.ac.uk/schools UK Residents: fees plus maintenance.
Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
A number of studentships may be available for research degrees in Arts and Humanities subject areas.
Details of the AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership will be advertised at go.qub.ac.uk/NorthernBridge UK Residents: fees plus maintenance.
Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Postgraduate Studentships
A number of studentships may be available for research in economic and social science subject areas.
Details of the ESRC Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE DTP) will be advertised at go.qub.ac.uk/NINE-DTP UK Residents: fees plus maintenance.
Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) Postgraduate Research Studentships
A number of studentships may be available for research degrees to address key themes Environmental Management, Biodiversity and Earth Systems.
Details of the NERC QUADRAT Doctoral Training Partnership will be advertised at quadrat.ac.uk UK Residents: fees plus maintenance.
Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Algorithmic Solutions (LINAS)
The LINAS Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) seeks to develop a cohort of Doctoral Scholars who can address the implications of massive-scale data processing, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) for both the actual operation of algorithmically driven public decision-making in wider society, and within science and engineering.
LINAS brings together legal scholars, social scientists, physical scientists, mathematicians, computer scientists and engineers to develop a distinctive cohort of doctoral students working across the boundaries of their own disciplines.
Our ambition is to support the development of integrated, effective, scientifically rigorous, and socially responsible algorithmic solutions.
It is hosted by The Senator George J.
Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice in collaboration with the Schools of Law, Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics, History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics and Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
For more details visit the LINAS page
The Wellcome Trust and National Institutes of Health Postgraduate Research Studentships This annual competition may offer postgraduate students collaborative PhD training at academic laboratories in the UK or Republic of Ireland and at the National Institutes of Health in the USA.
https://wellcome.org/grant-funding
*Funding arrangements for EU students starting courses at UK universities following the agreed transition period are required to pay will depend on what is agreed as part of the UK's exit negotiations.
University International Postgraduate Research Studentships
University-funded studentships for international (non-EU) students may be available for postgraduate research into specific strategic research areas.
We currently have over 15 flagship doctoral training programmes, funded centres and partnerships, which aim to seek out and nurture outstanding postgraduate research students, and provide world-class training within a thriving research culture across a number of disciplines.
Benefits of undertaking a doctoral programme through one of Queen's Doctoral Training Centres typically include:
Doctoral Training Programmes
Open to applicants from all countries
You may be able to apply for funding or support from the following organisations:
If you are a current Queen's student, you can check the Alternative Guide to Funding for opportunities.
If you are a prospective student, please register to receive the pin for the Alternative Guide to funding .
Applicants from the USA
Scholarships
Applicants from the USA may be entitled to the following Scholarships:
US Federal Loans
Many US students opt to finance their studies at Queen’s through US Federal Loans.
Queen’s is approved by the US Department of Education for participation in the Title IV Federal Loans programme.
US Federal Loans are generally available to eligible students who will be undertaking Bachelor’s, Master’s or PhD programmes at Queen’s, except for medical and nursing programmes.
Graduate students, or dependent undergraduate students and their parents, can normally borrow up to the full cost of attendance of their programme (including tuition, subsistence, and airfare).
Full details are available at US Loans and for further guidance, please contact the US Federal Loans Administrator at usloans@qub.ac.uk
Applicants from Mexico
Applicants from Mexico can apply for the CONACyT award .
Applicants from Low and Middle Income Commonwealth Countries
Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme for Postgraduate Taught Study At Queen’s, subject to availability of funding from the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, normally there will be up to three scholarships allocated for eligible taught postgraduate students on one of the eligible one-year courses (subject to confirmation): The scholarship covers the student’s tuition fees, a maintenance grant, travel costs and some additional allowances.
Only students from least developed, low, and lower middle income Commonwealth countries are eligible to apply
For further details please refer to the Funding and Scholarship Finder.
Commonwealth Scholarship Commission A range of scholarships and fellowships are available for citizens of developed and developing Commonwealth countries.
Aga Khan Foundation Awards For outstanding students from developing countries who have no other means of financing their studies
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA) Postgraduate Research Studentships
DAERA (formerly DARD) normally funds research courses relevant to the agricultural, horticultural, forestry, fishing or food processing industries.
Applications should be made directly to DAERA.
To be eligible for a full DAERA postgraduate studentship award, you must have been resident in Northern Ireland for the full three-year period before the first day of the first academic year of the course.
Republic of Ireland (RoI) nationals meeting the three year NI residency are eligible for a full award under the Common Travel Area arrangement.
EU, EEA or Swiss nationals meeting the three year residency must have settled or presettled status in the UK under the EU Settlement Scheme.
Non-EU nationals meeting the three year residence must be settled in the UK by the closing date of the application.
The main purpose of residence in NI must not have been to receive full-time education during any part of that three year period.
For further information on residency and citizenship see terms and conditions:
https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/publications/daera-postgraduate-studentship-research-needs

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/postgraduate/events:
We recognise the important role that events play for prospective students when it comes to making a decision about postgraduate study.
We will be running a host of in-person events and online events which you can join from any location.
WHY ATTEND OUR VIRTUAL EVENTS?
Watch our event on demand and discover why this is your perfect chance to undertake postgraduate study at Queen’s.
Hosted by Professor Margaret Topping, the event covers;
Watch now
You don't have to be a genius to make a positive difference.
Postgraduate Research is a great way to do something that has real social impact while exploring your passion and progressing in your field.
Watch back our inspiring Changing Lives PhD event and discover what its really like to be a researcher at Queen’s.
Be inspired to start your research journey.
Hear from Professor Margaret Topping as she does some myth-busting and discusses the importance of the student/supervisor relationship.
Listen to our past and present researchers as they share their research journey and highlight the real life impact their work is having.
Hear from our current Postgrad students from Ireland and hear their answers to your questions about studying at Queen's.
Where will you live as a student at Queen's?
Tour state-of-the art rooms in the city centre virtually, check out accommodation options in more detail and feel confident about where you want to want to live.
View Tour More information and prices
Your hub for postgraduate community and development.
Get details about events, fees and funding or training programmes.
Please find a selection of upcoming events for current postgraduate students below:
Once you have found a course on our online prospectus , read the steps to apply ( Master's and PhD )
Apply now Download a prospectus
If you have any enquires about postgraduate study please contact us:

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/new-students:
Start your university life by viewing next steps in the application timeline, information on moving to Belfast and making the most of your time here.
Undergraduate Students
View information on how to confirm your offer, speak to an advisor, finances, accommodation and more.
Postgraduate students
There’s a buzz on campus…and the focus is all on One Elmwood.
It houses both the Students’ Union and University Services, in one purpose-built facility to give access to a range of services and opportunities all in one building.
Set right at the heart of campus and with a rooftop terrace overlooking the area, the brand new state-of-the-art building brings student services with a range of facilities so students can access services, collaborate in shared spaces, get support and advice, and socialise in first class venues.
Services for you
Everything you need to know when coming to Queen’s and throughout your first semester.
We’ll help you navigate your way through the University in your initial few weeks, get registered, provide details on your learning environment, all of our support services, and advise how to get the most of your student experience.
Applications are open.
View rooms and apply
Ten things you can look forward to studying at Queen's
Why Study at Queen's?
We're here to help with all your queries, from accommodation to admissions.
Get in touch with the team
View our 360 degree tours of the campus and Belfast
Semester Dates
Getting to Belfast
International Students
Information for Parents
Students with Children
Schools and Faculties

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/postgraduate/your-future-career:
We are dedicated to producing future-ready graduates who stand out in a fast-paced, changing global job market.
You’ll acquire a broad range of skills beyond your subject area and benefit from bespoke career training and professional development programmes.
We are ranked 2nd for our University Careers Service, and 4th for job prospects (StudentCrowd University Awards 2025).
Our dedicated careers consultants will work with you to accelerate your professional development, find your purpose and follow your passion.
Alongside practical advice on interview preparation, CV building and strategic job-hunting , you’ll be given opportunities for enterprise, innovation, experiential learning and employer-led challenges.
Our Future-Ready Award means that employers recognise the skills you have developed outside your degree and that they count towards your final award.
You’ll benefit from our valuable links with leaders across business and government through mentoring relationships and networks.
You’ll learn to apply your knowledge and leadership skills in a to real-world context and complement your degree with skills valued by employers including creativity, innovation, problem-solving, communication and critical-thinking.
All our postgraduate students also have the opportunity to earn a Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and Leadership, accredited by the Chartered Management Institute .
You’ll be empowered to manage your own career, whether that is into further academia, non-academic employment or self-employment.
You’ll be challenged to translate your ideas into innovation and social change; encouraged to lead other in entrepreneurial practice and supported in bringing your ideas to market.
Through our career events and employer fairs you’ll gain industry insights and hear directly from employers on advancing in your chosen field.
Our reputation with employers puts us 10th in the UK for graduate career prospects (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our focus on skills training translates into graduate jobs: in 2022/23, 93% of Queen’s graduates were in employment and/or further study 15 months after completing their course (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2022/23).
The Graduate School offers a tailored development programme to help inspire and empower you to reach your full potential.
It is embedded within a continuous process of reflection and self evaluation.
Master Your Leadership takes a ‘whole person’ approach to the Postgraduate Taught student (Master’s level) experience through a programme of training and development which complements disciplinary excellence and develops employability skills.
Encouraging and supporting innovation, entrepreneurship and enterprise .
We deliver a wide range of creative support in our hub.
Develop creative confidence and explore ways of being entrepreneurial, including:
If you have a postgraduate qualification, you can earn up to £7,000 more per year than if you just had an undergraduate degree; that's £280,000 over a 40-year working life.
(Department for Economy for Northern Ireland, 2019).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/postgraduate/alumni:
"I saw the masters degree as a unique opportunity to refine my skills.
I found out a lot more about myself because it put me in an environment that I'm not used to.
We have fantastic facilities here, especially in the Graduate School, and I knew about the support networks that existed.
It made me stand out from the competition within the job industry."
"I have moved on from working in purely administration roles, with some career progression, I'm now working with the most advanced law firm in the world.
So I would advise anyone looking into postgraduate study-  don't hesitate, look into it, it will advance your career, it will open doors."
"I decided I wanted to enhance my career prospects by getting an additional law degree and I decided Queen's would be the perfect place to do that because of it's reputation.
Professionally it helped me secure a job in the profession I wanted to go in to- the legal profession.
It's going to be an extra competitive job market now in the future after the pandemic and I found that, after the previous crash, the extra qualification really helped me secure my career objectives."
"I had a real interest in Urban Planning and that led me to look at Queen's.
Belfast is a great city, it's very cosmopolitan .
I hadn't been here prior than coming here to study.
The city is really friendly.
It's a really thriving city.
It's full of culture."
Donie, a CNN Broadcaster, talks about how postgraduate study at Queen’s enhanced his career.
A past MA Political Science student, Donie hailing from Cahersiveen in Co Kerry, was an integral part of a team that uncovered several major Russian government-linked social media campaigns targeting Americans in the run-up to the 2016 U.S presidential elections.
In recent times, Donie rose to fame reporting on the scenes that unfolded on Capitol Hill in Washington DC in protest of the 2021 US election results.
Zofia, director of Intracontext, answers what made her decide to study for a postgraduate degree at Queen’s.
“I came to Queen's because it's a Russell Group university which makes it one of the leading research universities in the UK.
Queen’s offered research-led teaching and an attractive variety of modules in the Translation course I was interested in.
We were taught by world-class academics who created a truly inviting and respectful environment.
They were inspiring, encouraging and supportive of interdisciplinary research.”

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/postgraduate/masters-degrees/contacts:
Phone: 028 9097 1323

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/international-students/academic-english-service:
Queen’s, in partnership with Queen’s University Belfast International Study Centre, offers a range of free courses on Academic English for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate international students.
The Academic English team work closely with School staff to ensure the content is relevant, and programmes are tailored to your degree, or to the School in which you study.
They are also personalised according to the types of assessments you will complete on your degree programme.
Book an individual consultation
Courses are tailored and timed according to the types of assessments you will complete on your degree course.
Courses are specific either to individual programmes, or to schools.
E.g.
in the School of Biological Sciences we have a programme-specific course for MSc Leadership for Sustainable Development, MSc Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, and MSc Advanced Food Safety, plus a School-specific course for all other Postgraduate Taught Biological Sciences international students.
The Academic English Service works with school staff and students to make sure the content is relevant and useful.
In most Schools, we have a dedicated module, with a wealth of resources on Canvas for students to access throughout their study.
A programme of Generic English and Academic Skills also runs during Semester 1 and Semester 2, and in early Summer, with courses on Academic Writing, Seminar and Presentation Skills, Accuracy in Academic English and Conversational English.
Any international student may sign up to these if they wish to develop their English further in a particular area.
We offer individual consultations to provide personal guidance on academic English, understanding the academic culture at Queen’s and academic skills.
You will be enrolled automatically on any courses specific to your study area and you can register for the additional generic courses at the beginning of each semester.
You will be sent information on all courses when you enrol at Queen’s at the start of your programme.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/international-students/study-abroad:
At Queen's, we are proud to be a University that is internationally recognised and globally connected.
A semester or year of study with us can be truly life changing.
Queen’s has a reputation for world-class teaching and, as part of the UK's prestigious Russell Group, the education you will receive here is fully informed by researchers having a huge impact across the globe.
Over two hundred students come to Queen's each year to study abroad for a semester or an academic year and to experience a world-class education in a thriving city.
Small enough to feel like home, big enough for adventure, Belfast is a modern capital city known for its friendly welcome offering a truly unique study abroad experience.
As a student in Belfast, you will likely want to make the most of your time here and see the sights around the city and beyond.
We have everything from World Heritage sites, real-world Game of Thrones locations you can visit, scenery that inspired Narnia and more.
When you first arrive at Queen's, you will be invited to join our Orientation Programme, which runs at the start of each semester.
Orientation will help you get familiar with your new environment, provide essential information on registration processes and provide advice on adjusting to academic life at Queen's.
There'll also be some fun activities, to get to know your classmates and experience some of Northern Ireland's famous hospitality!
The Student Services in One Elmwood provides advice and support on careers, student wellbeing, learning skills, widening participation, finance, disability and visa/immigration.
Whatever your query, there is an expert team in One Elmwood ready to support you every step of the way, online and in person, personalising your experience
“I chose Queen’s as I was really interested in taking the Irish history modules as a history major from an Irish immigrant family in the states, and I had always been interested in going to Belfast.”
“Everyone from Queen's was super nice, helpful, and genuinely interested in what I was studying.
Belfast is also such a beautiful city to explore!”
“I decided to study abroad at Queen’s because the university is known for its peace and conflict studies focus, and being in Belfast aligned with those academic studies I wanted to pursue.”
“I heard so many great things from friends who had studied here in the past, and I have always wanted to go to anywhere on the island of Ireland, so I thought it would be a great fit!”

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/international-students/incoming-exchange:
Students enrolled on many degree programmes at Queen's can undertake an exchange programme as part of their studies.
Please see our information for outgoing students .
Queen's welcomes applications from students from our partner universities, who would like to attend Queen's on exchange for one or two semesters.
To find out more about how to apply to Queen's as an incoming Exchange Student, please use the links in the menu button and below.
To be admitted to Queen's as an Exchange Student, your home university must already have a reciprocal student exchange agreement with Queen's in the subject you want to study.
Queen's has student exchange agreements with over 150 institutions worldwide.
You can check if your home university is one of them below.
If you are currently enrolled at one of our partner universities, the next step is to contact the office that co-ordinates student exchange programmes at your home university.
Exchange students are selected by their home university in the first instance.
Queen's offers undergraduate degree programmes in a diverse range of subject areas.
Exchange Students are permitted to enrol in the subject area of the exchange agreement between Queen's and their home university.
Most Exchange Students who come to Queen's stay in University Accommodation.
There are several university residences close to campus.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/international-students/summer-schools:
Northern Ireland is ripe for discovery with a remarkable past, an exhilarating present and an exciting future.
Study in the home of Belfast and the Causeway Coast, named by the Lonely Planet as the number one region in the world to visit!
Students will have the opportunity to see their learning in action with a range of field trips across Northern Ireland to sites of cultural and historical importance.
Information on our 2025 Summer Programme
Information on our 2026 Summer Programme
Since 2014, the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS) has welcomed over 500 students from China and across the globe to the annual summer school.
The EPS summer school will also provide students the opportunity to take our additional professional skills module on Entrepreneurship.
This is an optional programme delivered in week three for summer school students who want to build entrepreneurial skills and awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Ranked 6th in the world for international outlook (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025), and founded in 1845, Queen’s University Belfast is one of the leading universities in the UK and Ireland with a distinguished heritage and history.
From Irish Studies to Engineering, there's plenty to choose from to gain international credit points towards your study.
“Studying at the International Summer School was everything I hoped for and more!
One of my favourite aspects was the lectures on Irish poetry, such as the work of W.B.
Yeats and Seamus Heaney, who was from Northern Ireland and wrote a lot about his hometown and the landscapes around where he lived.
We even got to visit his museum in Heaney’s hometown!
All of the field trips were amazing, from the historic city of Derry-Londonderry to Stormont Parliament to the breathtaking Causeway Coast with its spectacular views.
It was so hard to say goodbye, even though I only knew my classmates for four weeks, it feels like we’ve been friends for longer.
Even though my four weeks in Belfast are now over I will never forget this amazing experience I’ve had.
I may have said goodbye to Queen’s for now, but I have a feeling this won’t be the last time I visit!”

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/180/timeline:
Queen's is one of the UK and Ireland’s leading universities and continues to grow its global reputation for teaching and research.
The ninth oldest university in the UK, the beautiful campus symbolises both the rich history and academic heritage of Queen's.
Founded in 1845, Queen's has grown from a small cohort of students to a thriving multi-cultural community of over 4,200 staff and 24,000 students.
Read a short blog on the foundation and early years of Queen's College Belfast from 1845-1850 or watch the timeline video here .
Queen’s University opened in 1849 as Queen’s College Belfast, four years after the Irish Colleges Act established three different colleges in Ireland, in Belfast, Cork and Galway.
Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were among the first visitors to the Queen’s College building, now known as the Lanyon Building.
Charles Lanyon, the architect appointed to design the college, based the design on Magdalen College in Oxford.
The establishment of three faculties, Arts, Medicine and Law, was quickly followed by the first University society, The Literary and Scientific Society (‘The Literific’).
Tight government budgets restricted campus expansion for almost two decades until the construction of the new library (now The Graduate School) began in 1866, led by architect William Henry Lynn.
A campus gymnasium was erected in 1873 and the first Chemical and Pharmaceutical Laboratories opened in 1894.
Students perform gymnastics outside the Lanyon building
Thought to be a photograph of Graduation in 1886, which included eight women.
A bazaar was held in 1894 to raise funds for a Queen’s College Students’ Union building.
The event was a great financial success and also a social highlight attended by members of the local aristocracy who also ran their own stalls.
In 1896, a stone laying ceremony took place for the new Students’ Union.
Professors included renowned engineer and physicist James Thomson, who worked at Queen’s until 1873.
His notable advances in water wheels, water pumps and turbines, and in regelation (the effect of pressure on the freezing point of water) were overshadowed by the reputation of his brother, Lord Kelvin - the scientist who first introduced absolute zero temperature.
The Students’ Representative Council was founded in 1900 to enable students to negotiate with University authorities and to officially recognise the first ten clubs and societies, including six sports clubs and the Students’ Union.
The establishment of the Betterment Fund in 1901 provided the University the means to erect many new buildings and employ new staff, including adding a second story to the north cloister of the Lanyon Building.
In 1902 the Royal Commission on Irish University Education sat in Queen’s College, aimed at improving provision of higher education and advancing teaching and research.
Following discussions lead by Rev Thomas Hamilton, who had served as President of Queen’s College since 1889, the Irish Universities Act of 1908 separated the old Queen’s Colleges in Cork and Galway from the Belfast college.
The newly ratified Queen’s University of Belfast had autonomy from state control and granted the University governance on appointments and policies.
1908 Charter
Rev Thomas Hamilton became the first President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s University in 1908 and is credited with laying the foundations for the modern University.
British diplomat Sir Robert Hart was appointed Pro-Chancellor the same year.
A modernising figure in the Imperial Chinese government, he created the Chinese Post Office and laid the groundwork for modern China.
Rev Thomas Hamilton
This photograph of the British Universities Students’ Congress of 1908 includes the Lord Mayor of Belfast, Sir Robert Anderson (Centre front) and the President, Rev.
Dr Hamilton.
An early female graduate, Helen Waddell, was admitted to study English in 1909.
A poet and playwright, her contemporaries included W.
B.
Yeats and Virginia Woolf.
In 1884, pioneering female science student Alice Everett came first in her first year exams, while two years on, Florence Hamilton (mother of C.S.
Lewis) came fourth in her second year.
Helen Waddell
The Old Library was extended by the original architect William Henry Lynn between 1912 and 1914 as the need for additional space for students and staff grew.
Working in his signature neo-gothic style, it’s thought the ecclesiastical architect was giving the ‘Godless’ non-denominational college a church.
In 1914, Irish physician and politician William Whitla was appointed Pro-Chancellor.
Though his best-selling medical compilation, Dictionary of Treatment (1892), was as omnipresent as the bible during his lifetime, his name became more widely recognised after his death – following a generous will donation to the University, including his home at Lennoxvale.
During World War I, part of the University grounds were used as a military hospital.
The war brought a significant increase in student numbers, from 584 in 1914 to 888 in 1918 – 60 per cent of whom were medical students.
In 1920, the University acquired the original Queen’s Elms for conversion into a men’s hall of residence.
The Faculty of Applied Science and Technology was established in 1921, followed by the introduction of agricultural research the following year.
In 1923, a war memorial designed by Sir Thomas Brock was erected carrying the names of 254 Queen’s alumni who died during the war, including 55 doctors and medical students.
In 1926, the Faculty of Theology was established, while the School of Dentistry was developed within the Faculty of Medicine.
In 1926 Winston Churchill, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, received an honorary doctorate and the students gave him a ‘ragging’ on University Road to celebrate.
He was presented with a puddy hat, a clay pipe, and a shillelagh.
A large copy of this photograph hangs on a wall in Blenheim Palace.
Winston Churchill
In 1927, a women’s Students’ Hall was established in 20-21 University Square, now the site of the Queen’s Film Theatre.
In 1931, Mary Johnstone Lynn, a Queen’s graduate of 1912, was appointed the first female to a permanent lectureship in botany.
In 1932 a women’s pavilion was erected at Cherryvale playing fields.
Sir David Keir facilitates an appeal for the Centenary Endowment Fund to raise £250,000 towards construction.
Alexander Fleming (Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine) visits the University to give the Robert Campbell Oration to the Ulster Medical Society.
During the war years, vegetables were grown in the Quad to aid the war effort.
In 1945, a stained glass window was installed in the Black & White Hall, designed by JE Nuttgens.
By 1949, construction of the Whitla Hall was completed.
In 1950, Philip Larkin was appointed sub-librarian at Queen’s.
In 1953, Queen Elizabeth II visits Queen’s accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh shortly after the Coronation.
Royal Visit 1953, Photo courtesy of The Belfast Telegraph
1955, Queen’s Students’ Union established the longest-running student publication in UK, The Gown .
The old Students' Union building
In 1956, Peter Rice, structural engineer of worldwide importance, graduated.
He was the lead engineer on some of the world’s most innovative buildings, including Sydney Opera House, the Lloyd’s of London building and the Pompidou Centre in Paris.
In 1958, the Queen's University Gaelic football team won the Sigerson Cup for the first time, the trophy for the premier Gaelic football championship among Higher Education institutions in Ireland.
In 1959, Golden Jubilee celebrations were held to mark the founding of the University; the same year a large-scale building programme with new university facilities in medicine, engineering and science was implemented.
The Queen’s Festival (now the Belfast International Arts Festival) was inaugurated by Michael Emmerson in 1962.
Emmerson – who went on to be appointed Professional Director of the Festival – was seen as an exotic figure around campus, famed for his sandals and floppy hat.
Another memorable development in the early 60s was the emergence of the Glee Club -  one of the founders was a musician from Derry~Londonderry called Phil Coulter.
In 1962, almost a decade after the Queen’s visit, the Queen Mother opened the new Physics Building.
The Physics building in the 1960s
‘Ireland’s Einstein’ John Stewart Bell, who graduated from Queen’s with a BSc in Experimental Physics and a BSc in Mathematical Physics in successive years - published Bell’s Theorem in 1964, a theorem which physicists, philosophers and historians now consider to be one of the most significant developments in quantum theory.
It resolved a decades-old dispute which ultimately demonstrated that Einstein’s views on quantum mechanics were incorrect.
In 1964, John McGeagh began to work on the library tower block.
In 1965, Queen’s graduate and an eminent physician and cardiologist transformed emergency medicine and paramedic services with the invention of the world’s first portable defibrillator.
Painting of Professor Frank Pantridge
In 1966, the Ashby Building opened – the same year that Queen Elizabeth II opened the Social Sciences Building.
The Queen's visit in 1966
In 1967, the new Students’ Union Building opened.
In 1968, the Medical Biology Centre, and Science Library were built.
Medical Biology Centre
In 1969, a Doctor of Literature was conferred on Philip Larkin.
In 1971, the PEC Building opened providing sport and leisure facilities to students.
Queen’s graduate Stewart Parker won the Evening Standard Award for most promising playwright.
In 1972, the University Grants Committee visited Queen’s.
In 1976, British doctor and academic Sir Peter Froggatt was elected as President and Vice-Chancellor.
Painting of Sir Peter Froggatt
In 1981, a team from Queen’s won University Challenge.
In 1984, British Industrialist Sir Rowland Wright was elected as Chancellor.
Professor Sir David Bates, Northern Irish mathematician and physicist, was awarded an honorary degree in 1984.
Painting of Professor Sir David Bates
The year 1986 saw the completion of major improvement scheme to the Council Chamber and Canada Room.
In 1991, Professor Mollie McGeown, a Queen's graduate and a pioneer in dialysis and kidney transplantation, was awarded an honorary doctorate.
In 1998, on the 50th anniversary of the National Health Service, she was named as one of the 50 women who had contributed most to the success of the NHS.
Professor Mollie McGeown
Mary graduated from the School of Law in 1973 and became the University’s first female Pro-Vice-Chancellor in 1994.
She went on to serve as the eighth President of Ireland from November 1997 to November 2011
In 1995, Queen’s alumnus Seamus Heaney was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.
Seamus Heaney in the McClay Library, which he described as a 'starship for scholars'
In 1995, the Welcome Centre was established in the Lanyon Building.
In 1997, Senator George J Mitchell was awarded an honorary degree.
Senator Mitchell presided over the peace negotiations in Northern Ireland, that culminated in the Good Friday Agreement of 1998.
Senator George J Mitchell
In 1998, Honorary Professor, honorary graduate, law alumnus and former academic member of staff, Professor Lord David Trimble, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of his significant role in the Northern Ireland peace process.
Professor Lord David Trimble
In 1999, Senator George J Mitchell was appointed Chancellor of Queen’s.
In 2001, President William Jefferson Clinton (42nd President of the United States) awarded a Doctor of Laws honorary degree.
In 2001, a statue of Galileo, by Pio Fedi, was installed in the University's central Black and White Hall.
In 2003, Dr Paul Muldoon, a Queen’s graduate and honorary graduate was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry.
Dr Paul Muldoon
In 2004, the Sonic Arts Centre and state-of-the-art sonic laboratory facility was opened by renowned composer Karlheinz Stockhausen.
In 2004, the Seamus Heaney Centre for Poetry opened and the Naughton Gallery was awarded full museum status.
Queens' Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT) launched in 2004, a £37M research flagship, at the heart of the Northern Ireland Science Park (now Catalyst).
Professor John McCanny was responsible for the vision behind this and the creation of the Centre for Secure Information Technology, the UK’s Innovation and Knowledge Centre for Cybersecurity.
2005 saw the formation of UK’s first Institute of Agri-food and Land Use, while the International Research Centre for Experimental Physics (IRCEP) was also opened at Queen’s.
In 2007, Queen’s joined the prestigious Russell Group of top research-intensive UK universities.
Queen's joins the Russell Group
In 2007, Dame Kelly Holmes opened the new Physical Education Centre (PEC) building.
In 2007, Queen’s Professor Máire O’Neill named British Female Inventor of the Year.
At 32, she also became the youngest person to be named a Professor of Engineering at Queen’s.
In 2008, Queen Elizabeth II unveiled a centenary stone, while Nelson Mandela was named the University’s Centenary Honorary Graduate.
The Queen unveils a centenary stone in 2008
In 2008, Senator George J Mitchell opened the Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology.
In 2012, China Queen’s College was established.
The same year saw the formation of the Institute for Global Food Security.
China Queen’s College
Professor Patrick G Johnston became President and Vice-Chancellor of Queen’s in 2014 until his passing in 2017
In 2015, The Graduate School was restored from the old 'Lynn library'.
A state-of-the-art home for our postgraduate community, its hi-tech, vibrant spaces inspire intellectual exchange and collaboration.
The Graduate School
Peter Higgs (Higgs-Boson), a British theoretical physicist, was awarded an honorary degree.
In 2015, a partnership between Queen’s and Dubai Healthcare City/Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Medicine and Health Sciences was established.
In 2015, the University was re-structured into three faculties: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, Engineering and Physical Sciences and Medicine, Health and Life Sciences.
In 2017, important conservation and restoration work began on the iconic Lanyon building.
This involved the complete refurbishment and replacement of stone, brickwork, windows and leadwork, ensuring it is preserved and maintained for future generations.
Restoration to the highly intricate stonework on the Lanyon Building
An iconic new landmark building with world-class IT facilities, the new Computer Science building opened, delivering a stimulating environment for staff and students.
The colourful exterior boasts glass fins which represent digital code – a main mathematical aspect of computer science.
In 2019, plans for a new Student Centre at Queen’s were approved.
In January 2020, Hillary Clinton became the University’s 11th and first female Chancellor.
Queen's was awarded the prestigious Queen's Anniversary Prize for the seventh time, for its work on Shared Education.
These prizes recognise the outstanding contribution that a university or college has made to the United Kingdom.
The Centre for Shared Education at Queen’s has made a considerable impact in Northern Ireland and beyond, with its core pillars of education policy and practice being adopted in Northern Ireland and by educators and policymakers in other divided societies across the world.
The Vice-Chancellor receiving the award at Buckingham Palace
The focus of the world was on Queen's as global political leaders past and present arrived in Belfast to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement (B/GFA) for a three day conference hosted by Queen's in partnership with the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils, the Council on Competitiveness, Women in Business, Politics in Action, Commission for Victims and Survivors, the Lyric Theatre and Hillsborough Castle.
Queen’s University Belfast was awarded a prestigious Gold Athena Swan Award, conferred in January 2024 by Advance HE.
Athena Swan Gold Logo
On 23 April 2024 Queen’s University announced plans to officially seek University of Sanctuary recognition.
Through this process, the University will welcome people seeking sanctuary through facilitated access to higher education and support to local refugee communities.
Our Path to Sanctuary signatories from L to R Dr Ryan Feeney (Vice-President Strategic Engagement and External Affairs), Beth Elder (President Queen's Students' Union), Professor Sir Ian Greer (President and Vice-Chancellor), Kieran Minto (President (Elect) Queen's Students' Union) and Mehrshad Esfandiari (Chair of Belfast City of Sanctuary).

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/student-blog/why-choose-queens/TheAffordableStudentExperienceBelfastvsLondonvsManchester.html:
Queen’s University Belfast is one of the most prestigious places to study in the UK.
But does that mean it’s expensive to live in Belfast compared to other cities like Manchester or London?
Let’s investigate.
Belfast is a great city to live in when you’re a student!
It’s a thriving and exciting capital city located in Northern Ireland filled with everything from stunning architecture and history, to fantastic shopping, and foodie delights.
It’s got something to suit every taste.
But you might expect all of this to come with a cost?
Northern Ireland’s hidden secret is that Belfast is the UK’s most affordable student city (Natwest Student Living Index 2024).
Especially when compared to other student hubs like London and Manchester.
When you’re a student, one of the most important considerations is finding a good place to live while you study.
An ensuite room here will cost you just £168 a week ( Queen's Student Accommodation ).
A comparable room in Manchester will cost you £175 per week* and in London, you can expect to spend to £268 per week, that’s £100 more expensive than Belfast!**
The prices get even more expensive if you’re considering privately renting, with the average price for a room per month being £1,030.42 in Manchester ( Manchester Student Homes ) and between £500-1000 in London ( student.studios2let.com ).
That’s before you think about the cost of bills too!
*Top Tip* Your room at Queen’s comes complete with everything you need to make your stay comfortable, including WiFi, heating and electricity.
There’s no extra bills or hidden charges.
Since all the student accommodation options at Queen’s come with a modern kitchen for you to use, it’s always easy to cook your own food in Belfast.
Even better, grocery prices in Northern Ireland are generally less expensive than in London ( WhatUni.com ).
Students in Belfast spend least in the UK on household bills (Natwest Student Living Index 2024).
It’s also really easy to find speciality ingredients for your favourite recipes, with an Asian Supermarket and numerous local stores providing food and ingredients from across the world just around the corner from our Main Campus and Accommodation.
*Top Tip* Did you know that Belfast is among the seven best UK cities for food and drink (Which?, 2023)?
That doesn’t mean that eating out in Belfast is too expensive though.
A meal in a Belfast restaurant costs around £16.50, whereas in London it would be £20 ( numbeo.com/cost-of-living ).
With two airports, ferries, a rail network and bus services – getting to and also around Belfast is simple.
There are over 75 national and international flights to and from Belfast which means it’s easy to travel to.
Plus, once you’re here, the public transport links will help you get wherever you need to go.
Students can also benefit from discount travel within the city when they register for a free yLink Card which offers 1/2 off rail and bus travel (and more).
*Top Tip* Belfast is a very walkable city; in twenty minutes you can get from our main campus to the city centre.
Plus, with a range of shops, cafes and bars near Uni, many students find that they don’t need to use public transport much when they get here - a definite cost saver.
There’s always something happening in Belfast!
The city hosts a range of events throughout the year, from Continental Markets to Film and Science festivals and they’re often free to look around.
But since you’re saving all that money on food and accommodation, you’ll have more to spend on your social life and having those memorable student experiences in Belfast too.
For example, the money you save on shopping?
Why not use it to take a trip to the cinema where a ticket costs £6 at the Queen's Film Theatre ?
You’ll even have enough left over for popcorn!
Compared to Manchester where it’s £8.50 ( Odeon Saver Ticket ) or London where the average student ticket is £13.50 ( https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/belfast/student-living-costs/ ), that really is a bargain.
*Top Tip* If you want to be a tourist for the day, a Guided Bus Tour of Belfast costs just £12!
In Manchester, it would be £15.00 and in London, a similar city tour would cost £24.65.
(Sources: Belfast “Belfast City Sightseeing”, Manchester "Get Your Guide”, London “Get You Guide”)
Keeping fit is a top priority but gym membership can be costly.
If you’re studying in London the membership at a University Gym can cost you £190 per year (King's College London), which is a large chunk of your budget.
In Manchester, an equivalent gym membership can cost £130 (University of Manchester) which is a little friendlier on your wallet.
But when you live in Queen’s University Accommodation gym membership is free!
That means you won’t have to spend a penny in order to access the PEC, our state of the art fitness facility which features a fully equipped gym, swimming pool, climbing wall and fitness classes.
*Top Tip* Belfast has lots of beautiful parks and outdoor spaces to run, cycle and hike.
So if you feel like taking your workout outside, the city is ready for you to explore.
Plus, with our handy Belfast Bike scheme, you don’t even have to own your own bike, you can rent one from a variety of locations too.
When you decide to study at Queen’s you could be eligible for a wide range of scholarships and grants .
From the Vice Chancellor’s International Attainment Scholarship to the GB Tuition Fee scholarship or the Early Confirmation Award discount which is exclusively available to new international students beginning a full-time course in the academic year 2025/26.
In contrast to other universities, some of our scholarships are uncapped, meaning multiple applicants have benefited from them each year.
All our scholarships are designed to help make the cost of living easier for you when you start studying here in Belfast.
*Top Tip* Make sure to check out the Queen’s University Scholarship pages on our website.
You may be eligible for a scholarship or grant!
So, now that the results are in, it’s clear that although Manchester and London are interesting places to visit, Belfast really is the most cost-effective city to live when you’re a student!
Just think, with all the money you’ll save on accommodation and living costs you might even be able to fit a bit of travelling in between your studying too!
For more information about the cost of living for students at Queen's, check out our Living in Northern Ireland page.
*Based on price of ensuite accommodation at the University of Manchester for 2025/26 entry
**Based on price of ensuite accommodation at King's College London for 2024/25 entry

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/accommodation/student-accommodation:
The accommodation application for 2025-26 is NOW OPEN.
Prices below are for the 2025-2026 academic year.
All our accommodation prices include the following: high speed WiFi, water, electricity, heating, hot water, contents insurance, 24/7 maintenance team and full social programme and support.
Accommodation is self catered.
24/7 security, secure access and on-site support teams.
All our properties have all bills included.
Our friendly team are on-hand to help with anything you need.
Have a great student experience with daily events and regular adventure trips.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/gbscholarship:
Our exclusive GB Scholarship is available for students commencing their undergraduate degree at Queen’s in September 2026.
This award is available to students from England, Scotland, Wales, Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands.
Applying to university can be a stressful time so we have recently updated our requirements for the GB Scholarship 2026 entry to remove grade requirements to give some certainty to eligible students applying to Queen’s.
Best of all, there is no application process .
If you meet the eligibility criteria you will be identified automatically at the point of registration and enrolment on an approved undergraduate degree programme.
All undergraduate degree programmes (excluding Foundation courses, Medicine and Dentistry*)
*Please refer to Courses Excluded section below
New, full time, undergraduate students from England, Scotland, Wales, Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.
The University will pay £2,500 towards Queen's Accommodation (or alternative contracted provider) in your first year of study.
You will also receive a sum of £500 in your first year of study to support flights and costs associated with moving to Belfast.
In addition to the above, as a resident of Queen’s Accommodation you will also benefit from the following:
Successful candidates will be informed of their award via email notification.
The GB Scholarship excludes students applying for:
Guaranteed first year accommodation in the heart of the city for students from Great Britain
Queen’s believes in rewarding hard work and excellence.
We are offering an exclusive scholarship for new undergraduate students from England, Scotland, Wales, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
Students will receive:
There is no application process for these awards.
If you have met the eligibility criteria you will be identified automatically at the point of registration and enrolment.
To find out more about how we process your personal data please see our student privacy notice.
GB scholarship is only applicable to 2026 entry students.
Terms and Conditions

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/careers/CareersinformationforInternationalstudents:
As an International student at Queen’s, Careers, Employability and Skills can help you with questions related to your choice of career path and navigating the recruitment process.
This section highlights the support we provide and useful resources regarding working during and after your studies.
We offer confidential and impartial career and educational guidance from professionally qualified staff.
While you can access all aspects of the central careers provision , we recognise that understanding the UK labour market and recruitment process can sometimes be more challenging for International Students.
We have collated some specific resources you may find useful.
The International Student Employability Programme runs twice every academic year, and aims to explain and demystify the UK recruitment process.
It helps you identify your unique skill set,  find labour market information, write effective UK CV’s and cover letters, confidently answer interview questions and succeed on the job.
Make sure to use your access to MyFuture , our online careers portal where you can search for jobs, internships and placements.
It’s where you can book a place on programmes , attend events , and book a one-to-one careers consultation .
It’s where you will find out about employer networking sessions and the Visa Information Session which happens in Semester One.
This support is in addition to careers activities and support provided within your academic school.
Access MyFuture
Finding paid work directly related to your studies on a part-time basis may be difficult depending on your timetable and sector preference.
However, any work experience in the UK demonstrates language ability and understanding company culture, skills gained in a variety of non-graduate level jobs.
Useful places to check include QWork , MyFuture for part time and on campus jobs, and NIJobs, nijobfinder and JobApplyNI .
Remember to check the individual conditions of your own visa.
The Immigration Support Service team have created a thorough resource answering questions around Working In The UK As A Student .
For subject and sector specific career profiles and employer vacancies, you can access our Careers Student Intranet or the Prospects website.
Using your MyFuture ‘My Tools and Resources’ section, you can access Student Circus , a tool that provides jobs and Internships from UK wide employers who have all the visa processes in place.
This section also provides access to GoinGlobal, a country-specific career and employment information platform, including world-wide internship and job postings.
Other useful resources for finding work outside the UK include GradIreland and GradLink .
The Asia Careers and Employability Service (ACES) can be added as a filter on MyFuture for Indian nationals to search jobs in India, and filtering by Intern (curated only) will show intern positions in the EU.
To support international students looking for work in the UK you can enjoy free access to Student Circus , a tool that provides exclusive Jobs and Internships from UK wide employers who are advertising placements and graduate jobs and are willing to sponsor the Skilled Worker UK visa.
You can access this through your MyFuture log in.
Need more reasons to access Student Circus?
Read these Student Circus success stories .
Access Your Student Circus account via  MyFuture
For any queries around your visa during your studies the Immigration Support Service have a comprehensive website.
If you want to stay in the UK after your course has finished there are several visa routes available.
It is the responsibility of the student to determine which visa best suits your needs.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) has an excellent resource detailing options for working after your studies , including information for specific professions.
GradIreland has specific information around Employment Rights for International Students in Ireland as well as jobs and related opportunities.
You can also check the Irish Immigration Service for detailed information.
TargetJobs has a Guide to Job Hunting for International Students which includes information about the UK recruitment process, differences between Graduate Schemes and Direct Entry jobs and work experience opportunities for International students.
UKCISA International Student Employability Group have created a resource for employers Recruiting International Graduates A Guide for Employers which could help you answer any questions recruiters may have.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/Why-Study-at-Queens/Your-future-career:
Queen’s graduates are in high demand throughout the world.
Your future is our priority – that’s why we’re ranked 9th in the UK for Graduate Prospects – Outcomes (Complete University Guide 2026)
Why we produce the best grads
(Guardian University Guide 2025)
(HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2022/23)
(Condé Nast Traveller, Readers' Choice Awards 2024)
(i2i University Spinout Ranking 2024)
Our world-class undergraduate and postgraduate courses are designed to boost your employability.
Our academics and careers team can guide you to the best internships and employers, help set career goals and tailor your CV for your chosen career path.
Get hands-on experience with our state-of-the-art campus facilities – from Bloomberg Terminals to simulation-based healthcare facilities.
Learn practical skills from the most up-to-date technology.
Kick-start your global career at Queen’s.
Gain access to a wide range of international graduate job and internships across UK, Europe, America, China, ASEAN, Gulf, Canada, Africa, India and Bangladesh.
As a Queen’s student, you can access GoingGlobal, an international job search tool that allows you to search jobs in your home country or overseas, and to access guidance on visas and job searches.
Or you may choose to stay right here - we know the UK job market inside and out.
You can search and apply for jobs via MyFuture and even tailor your job search by School or sector so you can find the most appropriate opportunities for your skills.
Every international student at Queen’s enjoys free access to Student Circus, a job platform tailored for international students, where you can find UK employers looking for students just like you.
How we help you build a global career:
Read: From Queen’s to global peacemaker
BLOG: Erasmus Adventures in Barcelona and Navigating Internship Opportunities
We have strong links with employers around the globe thanks to our heritage and reputation for excellence.
Our dedicated Employer Engagement team will work to communicate your worth to employers and source valuable work-related experiences, such as work shadowing opportunities and real-world industry challenges .
Join our career fairs or employer events to meet our network of employers from around the world.
Queen’s opens the door for you to join a network of over 140,000 individuals who are making a real difference in more than 120 countries around the world.
We help you market yourself to employers in a fast-paced and changing global job market.
BLOG: Wearing Many Hats: The Multifaceted Life of a Queen's Ambassador
Get the best start - our events help you prepare for your career.
Learn how to gain experience for your CV , build valuable skills that employers look for in graduates or how to boost your confidence and self-esteem.
Our Graduate School builds future leaders with opportunities including professional skills coaching, leadership workshops, employer-lead challenges, social enterprise projects and Chartered Management Institute (CMI) accreditation.
Our career support continues after you graduate.
Join our alumni community to attend networking and career events .
Our dedicated Graduate Support platform offers continued access to careers support for up to two years after graduation.
And you continue to benefit from our world-class facilities And enjoy access to the MyFuture job search tool.
You’re right where you need to be in Belfast.
The city is the perfect launch pad to a global career and is home to 900 international companies across a wide range of sectors ( Belfastcity.gov.uk ).
Belfast is recognised as one of the fastest growing tech cities in the UK.
The city is a home to innovaters - with 1 in 4 job openings in the tech sector (Tech Nation, 2019).
BLOG: The Entrepreneurial Spirit of Queen’s Students and Graduates
Take charge of your future.
Benefit from Queen’s support for entrepreneurs.
You can find funding for your business idea , office space or events like Dragon’s Den where you can showcase and grow your ideas.
And there’s no better place to be an entrepreneur than in Belfast - startups born in the city have received record amounts of funding in recent years (Catalyst, 2021).
How I started my business while studying

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/University-life/Wellbeing-and-support:
The My Queen's page holds all the information needed to support you throughout your journey at Queen’s University Belfast.
We also work with professional partners who know everything about studying with us.
They can help with your application and preparation for studying in the UK.
Our Partners
The Student Experience Team can offer guidance and support throughout your student journey at Queen’s University.
The team are very welcoming and can assist with a wide range of queries covering all aspects of student life.
Living away from home can sometimes be lonely or difficult, whether for the first time or not.
For help and advice with welfare and wellbeing issues please contact the Residential Life Team (RLT) who will be happy to help.
Our dedicated Careers Consultants are here to provide bespoke careers advice during your time at Queen’s as you plan for your future.
We’ll help you to develop your skills and explore your career options.
Rebecca’s here to help you find your way around the library and get the most out of Queen’s.
“As a Library Assistant, my job is really varied.
But the bit I love best is helping students in the same way I was helped when I was a student.
When I studied here, a member of Library staff was the first person to show me how to search for my books and journals using QCat.”
We’ll help you register with a doctor, organise a UK bank account and mobile phone, show you where to go shopping and give you plenty of opportunities to make new friends.
As a student, you may be entitled to register at the University Health Centre and have access to a full range of medical services as needed.
If you’re from outside of the European economic area, you’ll have paid an immigration healthcare surcharge as part of your visa application.
Queen’s welcomes students of every faith and can help you to find religious communities and representatives of most interest to you.
We have a diverse student and staff population with 13 faiths and denominations currently being represented.
We welcome applications from students of all abilities and will endeavour to meet your individual needs wherever possible.
Accessible Learning Support can help you to find out more and supports students with a wide range of disabilities including learning difficulties.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/Study/belfast/getting-here:
Northern Ireland has three airports, two of which are in Belfast, sea crossings that happen regularly from England to Scotland and also has direct bus and train links from Dublin.
If you're coming from further afield, you can fly direct to Belfast from over 20 European cities and a number of North American locations.
Once you set foot in our city, you'll find out just how easy it is to get around.
Belfast is a compact city meaning you can get around on foot, or if you need to get public transport around the city we have a metro bus service that stops right outside the Lanyon Building.
If you are aged 16-23 you can avail of the ylink card which offers 50% discount off all fares on both train and bus services provided by Translink.
BELFAST BIKES
The Belfast Bikes scheme launched in April 2015.
There are currently over 50 Belfast Bikes docking stations and over 400 bikes linking up the city, with three docking stations on campus.
Campus docking stations can be found outside the Students' Union, the McClay Library and Elms BT9 Student Village.
FREEDOM CYCLES
For more information, including available services and pricing, visit Freedom Cycles.
A Starter Guide for International Students at Queen's: Navigating Your First Steps - Rushikesh Mahajan, LLM Law and Technology, India
A Pakistani’s Comedy of Errors in Her Journey to Belfast - Rimsha Ali Siddiqui, MSc Marketing, Pakistan
Fuss Free Flights to Belfast!
- Russell Unsworth, Chemical Engineering, UK
Guide to Moving to Belfast - Manasa Ramakrishna, Medicine, Canada
Guide to Getting to Belfast from GB - Tobias Hunter-Tod, Computer Science, UK
Moving from the USA to Belfast – a Practical Guide - Allison Linzing, Inclusion and Special Needs, USA

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/new-students/international:
Find information about your CAS and Visa, tuition fees and scholarships, accommodation, and pre-sessional English courses.
International Undergraduate Students ➤
Get information on Visa/CAS procedures, accepting your offer, fees and finances, pre-sessional English and useful contacts.
International Postgraduate students ➤
Immigration/Visa/CAS for Undergraduates
Immigration/Visa/CAS for Postgraduates
Pre-Sessional English
Accommodation
International Tuition Fees
International Scholarships
Country Entry Requirements
International Prospectus
Location and travel
Arrival and Welcome
International Support
Support and wellbeing

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/why-queens:
Choosing to study at Queen’s could be one the best decisions you ever make!
We’re a university that prioritises academic excellence and is dedicated to helping you discover your potential.
We're also ranked top 200 in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026).
Our constantly evolving campus has received over £700million in funding to make it future ready.
From the state of the art McClay Library, to the cutting edge Computer Science Building, and purpose built School of Law, including a Moot Court Room, our teaching facilities have transformed our historic campus into an innovative learning environment for our exceptional students.
I chose Queen’s because I liked the prospect of exploring somewhere I’ve never been before.
Belfast is very student-orientated; there are regularly student discounts.
With the GB scholarship, I’m saving just under £2,000 per year.
The people at Queen's and Northern Ireland in general are extremely friendly and genuine.
James Hadley-Piggin, Devon BA Social Anthropology
Studying at Queen’s is a fantastic experience.
It’s even better when you know you’re living somewhere safe, comfortable and in the most affordable place to be a student.
We can offer you the all-important space to live and enjoy undergraduate life to the full.
Our exclusive GB Scholarship is available for students commencing their undergraduate degree at Queen’s in September 2023.
This award is available to students from England, Scotland, Wales, Isle of Man and the Channel Islands who achieve ABB or above in their A-levels or equivalent qualification(s).
Best of all, there is no application process.
*Terms and conditions apply, please see our GB Scholarship page for details.
It might be strange to think of life after University!
But a degree from Queen’s really is the starting point to a lifetime of career achievement.
We have a dedicated Career Guidance Team, a Future-Ready Award scheme which recognises and accredits Queen’s students for the personal initiative and a range of study or work abroad opportunities.
"I benefited from being taught by world-class professors, and my time was enhanced by getting stuck-in outside of class.
From roles running the History Society to my time as Equality Officer for NUS-USI, or hours spent debating in the Literary & Scientific Society, to founding an anti-slavery group, it was an incredible few years." Henry Adams BA Ancient History and Politics, Somerset
Your Future Career
GB Students: Welcome and Orientation Experience
Blog: Why I chose Queen’s (And came overseas)…
Blog: Get a Summer Internship with Queen's
Blog: GB Student’s Guide to Living in NI
Blog: Fuss Free Flights to Belfast!
Blog: Settling into Queen’s as a GB student
Blog: Why Choosing a Russell Group University Has Been Right for Me
Blog: "Queen's definitely exceeded our expectations," Hear from the Parents of our Students
Blog: Open up a World of Opportunities with Queen's Clubs and Societies

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/accommodation:
From state-of-the art rooms in the city centre to our dedicated student village, there’s something perfect for everyone, plus GB students are guaranteed a room in their first year.
Live somewhere safe, comfortable and affordable so you can enjoy undergraduate life to the full.
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK; and it is £174 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (National Student Money Survey 2023).
Watch our student tour of accommodation >
Prices from £130 per week
Prices from £175 per week
Based on Single Ensuite accommodation, similar distance to Elms BT9 to campus.
Includes utilities.
Prices are per week, subject to contract conditions.
Source: The National Student Money Survey 2022
All our apartments in Elms BT1 and Elms BT2 include modern en suite shower rooms, a desk with lamp, use of a full kitchen, dining table and chairs, TV and high-speed internet.
Conveniently located in the centre of Belfast and just 15 minutes from Queen’s main campus, you’ll be based in a thriving coffee culture beside great restaurants and nightlife.
Local grocery stores Spar, Centra and Tesco Express will also be on your doorstep, and Victoria Square (0.5mi), one of the city’s main retail hubs, is just a 10-minute stroll away.
Elms BT9 gives you a safe, secure new home in Belfast and great opportunities to make new friends from all over the world.
Elms has a chilled-out community atmosphere and is just a 10-minute walk from the main campus and Students’ Union on the leafy Malone Road.
The Treehouse social space is at the heart of Elms BT9 and includes a coffee bar open each evening, study space, a shop, a laundry and an ATM.
“I'm living in BT9 Elms Village, and it’s very good.
The reception and facilities are exactly what is needed, there is a great community atmosphere and all the halls are a very high standard - much nicer than for the same money at other unis.” Megan Johnston, England Biomedical Science

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/moving-here:
Did you know that Queen’s University is only a one hour flight away from most cities in England, Scotland and Wales?
In fact, Belfast has excellent travel connections , with two airports flying to 74 destinations as well as 99 ferry sailings per week.
For transfers to the University from airports, Belfast City Airport is only a 10-minute bus journey costing less than £2.
From Belfast International Airport, it’s a 40-minute bus costing just over £5.
The cost of getting to Queen’s University is typically cheaper and quicker than travelling to other universities in England, Scotland or Wales.
Blog: Travelling to Belfast versus travelling to other UK uni cities Check out the table to see the average costs of getting to university from across Great Britain:
* (Source: Google Flights, thetrainline.com)
“After researching Queen’s and watching videos of other students’ experiences and accommodation options, I knew Queen’s was the right place for me.
I saw this as an opportunity to discover a new city which I’d never visited and a chance for me to grow as a person, as I would not be as close to home.” Francesca D’Souza, Watford, England
“When I was busy making my uni decisions I can remember how confusing it felt,” said Peter Moore, who studied for a BA in English and Linguistics.
“Queen’s really stands out amongst scholarships at other universities.”
If you qualify for the GB Scholarship 2024:
With the extra money you save, there are some amazing things you could put the money towards.
Find out more about the GB Scholarship
"Queen's accommodation has a Residential Life Team who are always available to have a chat or give you help should you need it.
If you spend time at the coffee bar and at events, they truly become your friends.
They also run trips to other parts of Northern Ireland at the weekend, which are a great way to make new friends." Grace Williams England
GB students are guaranteed university accommodation in first year and our Residential Life Team are able to offer support if you feel lonely or homesick.
They also organise regular socials and trips throughout each semester.
These range from events like Disney karaoke to trips to ice hockey matches, IKEA, games nights and movie nights.
We know it’s tempting, but don’t go packing everything but the kitchen sink!
When you arrive at the accommodation, you can buy a kitchen and bedding pack with all the things you need to get started.
Here’s what’s included:
Seeing is believing, and we think you’ll be convinced once you experience our stunning campus for yourself.
If you’re thinking of applying to Queen’s, why not book a Campus Tour?
You can request a bespoke tour that will introduce you to the people and places you’ll interact with on your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/life-at-queens:
Known as the “Queen’s Quarter”, the area surrounding our campus is the most vibrant district of Belfast.
Here, you’ll find everything from museums and art galleries to world cuisine, as well as your classes of course, all within easy walking distance.
The beauty of Belfast is that you’re never far from beaches, forests and mountains if you need some headspace.
If the landscapes and landmarks look familiar, it’s because many of them have featured in Game of Thrones .
Top day-tripping spots include the Giant’s Causeway , the Mourne Mountains and, of course, Derry/Londonderry for the ‘Derry Girls’ experience including a visit to the iconic mural of the Channel 4 show.
“Lovely green spaces are easily accessible from Queen’s; countryside and beaches can be reached within an hour on public transport.” Catherine BA Philosophy, Cambridgeshire
It won’t be long until you feel at home here.
There’s plenty of ways to meet new friends, develop life skills and find support when you need it:
"I was nervous about making the move from England, however Elms BT9 was like a home from home and the perfect place to meet new friends.” Gregory Bsc Business Management, Shropshire
Student Life
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024), making it a great city to live in when you’re a student.
It's £178 per month cheaper for student living costs in Northern Ireland compared to the UK average (Save the Student National Student Money Survey 2024).
You’ll save on more than your accommodation too with the average monthly food shop at £65 (Which?) and a cinema ticket at Queen's Film Theatre only £5.
“When I first visited Belfast, I was immediately taken by the city’s culture and beauty.
I’ve always felt like part of the community here in Belfast.
The people here are the friendliest I’ve ever met." Alisha Ratcliffe, Manchester, England
Find out more about the Cost of Living in Belfast
If there was a phrase to sum up Belfast it would be “Great Craic”.
Whether you’re visiting one of many festivals and cultural events, exploring the hills and countryside that surround the city, or heading for a buzzing night out head to one of the many bars, clubs and music venues throughout the city.
"Belfast is one of the UK and Ireland’s most vibrant and affordable cities, packed with energy, culture and history.
Queen's majestic campus is in Queen's Quarter, with cafés, bars, restaurants, plenty of shopping and entertainment venues." (Complete University Guide 2024)
"One of the things I love about Belfast is that it's a big enough city that there's always something going on but it's also small enough that you still get the community feeling.
There's always someone there to help if you feel lost or lonely at any time and I don't think you get that anywhere else." Will Hancock Carmarthen, Wales
VIDEO: Our International Students Learn NI Slang
Blog: The LGBTQ+ Community at Queen's!
Blog: My Favourite Nights out in Belfast
Blog: Hey there Sports Fans!
Blog: Where are the best places for a bite around campus?
Blog: Student House Hunting: The Ins and Outs of Finding a House as a Queen’s Belfast Student
Blog: Causeway Coast – The UK's Hidden Gem, Only One Train Ride from Belfast
Blog: Finding Friends for Life at Queen’s
Blog: A Guide to Support Services at Queen’s

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/student-blog/gb-students:
GB student Elle takes us through a typical week as a Pharmacy student in Belfast, from practical workshops in the MBC to enjoying ice hockey games with friends.
Welsh Psychology student Niamh describes how being a part of Queen's Surf Club has positively shaped her university experience and why she would recommend joining the Surf Club to a fresher.
Welsh student Sam had his sights set on Sheffield, but an offer to study Software Engineering at Queen's prompted him to change direction completely - read his Clearing story below!
History student Alex looks back on her experience of the Clearing call and moving to Belfast to study at Queen's.
Politics, Philosophy and Economics student Ella discusses her Clearing journey and why she regards Queen's as her 'healing place' following results day.
GB student Anassa discusses her path to Queen's through Clearing; and how she quickly settled into life in Belfast.
From writing chapters to climbing walls (literally and metaphorically), here’s what life looks like for a night owl PhD student trying to do meaningful work and still have fun along the way.
Planning to attend a Queen's open day?
GB student Niamh has crafted a jam-packed guide full of the best cafes, restaurants and attractions in Belfast to help you make the most of your weekend trip to the city!
Politics and International Relations student Charlotte provides some tips on how to balance your academic schedule with a healthy lifestyle.
Politics and International Relations student Charlotte recently had the opportunity to work for the Mercedes Formula One team in England.
Read all about her fast-paced and dynamic placement year below!
Politics student Emily considers why students are increasingly choosing to go sober during their time at university.
Welsh Psychology student Niamh describes how attending an Offer Holder Day at Queen’s changed her mind on where she wanted to go to university; and gives advice for any current Offer Holders.
Calling all current and prospective Queen's students – are you keen to explore new cities and cultures during your time at university?
Hear from our students about their adventures while studying and volunteering abroad.
Students from a range of backgrounds and disciplines tell us why they love their courses at Queen’s!
Are you weighing your options for university and wondering, 'should I stay or should I go?' - read our top 5 reasons why you should take the leap and put down your roots in Belfast and at Queen's.
Second year student Tiana talks about her experiences with social anxiety throughout her first year at Queen’s, and offers advice for others in the same position.
Check out Architecture student Philippa's top picks for brunch, late-night meals and delicious desserts around campus and in Belfast city centre.
French and International Relations student Jadzia discusses her experience so far of studying abroad in France!
GB student Charlotte has created a fun, parent friendly weekend itinerary for those who want to show their family the best of Belfast.
GB student Charlotte has compiled a list of considerations for moving into new student accommodation - check out her tips below!
Whether you are a new or returning student, find out how to make the most of Freshers' Week at Queen's!
Politics student Charlotte shares key travel options and luggage storage tips for students travelling from Great Britain to Queen's.
Not sure what to bring with you to your new accommodation at Queen's?
GB student Charlotte has you covered.
As a recent veggie, that has meant a new side quest: finding tasty dishes at the best spots in Belfast.
So here is what I’ve discovered so far…
With enrolment and registration on the horizon, GB student Charlotte shares some advice on how to choose the best modules within your course.
Architecture student Yashani gives an overview of her course at Queen's, including a typical timetable, the course structure and its facilities.
How to slay sustainability and start being more environmentally conscious in a few small steps…
The inside scoop of a random Wednesday at university…
Broadcast Production student Katie lists her favourite cinema spots in Belfast!
Whether you are a new or returning student, domestic or international, Queen's offers a variety of support services to suit your needs.
GB student Katie gives an overview of key student support services offered within the university.
The weekends are a lovely chance to bond with new friends and due to my love of exploring new places and food, I would always suggest a brunch.
These are my current top ten brunch spots.
Broadcast Production student Katie explains the benefits of joining clubs and societies at Queen's, of which there are over 220 to choose from.
GB student Katie provides some advice on how to make friends and enhance your social life while at university.
The new year means a new start, which at Queen's can be easier than you think…
Looking to enhance your university experience with a once in a lifetime trip abroad?
GB student Charlotte recently had a chance to visit Fiji with Think Pacific for a local community project.
Looking for your next great read?
Broadcast Production student Eliza lists her top ten LGBTQ+ focused novels.
As someone who has scoured and practically inhaled every bit of information on how to stay afloat amidst the crippling cost of living crisis, I have a few tips that can make university life easier, for those with or without financial dependants.
Exam and assignment season is undoubtedly one of the most stressful times of the year - third year Broadcast Production student Eliza is here to help you deal with the workload positively and productively.
The Queen’s Arcsoc has existed since August 2020 and has supported students who are enrolled in Architecture, as well those who have an active interest in the subject!
Politics and International Relations student Charlotte is a keen participant in various clubs and societies at Queen's University.
Take a look at her favourite clubs below and find out how you can get involved.
Are you studying a course that doesn't offer a compulsory placement?
International Relations and Politics student Charlotte provides some top tips for securing your ideal placement and how to navigate the application process.
Here is the low down of how much it costs to live in Belfast as a student and some tips for how to manage your money.
Welcome, new students!
History and Politics undergraduate James explains how you can make the most of your orientation experience at Queen's below.
Are you a brand new or returning student?
Undergraduate student Charlotte explains the registration and induction process for the new academic year below.
Urban community gardens and allotments provide many social and environmental benefits, but how safe is produce grown in urban soils?
Postgraduate student Jennifer Newell describes her research into urban agroecology.
Although most first year students move out of their home and into accommodation when going to university, it’s not until their second year that they move into their own house.
Finding and securing a house can be a stressful but rewarding experience.
Only a short journey away from Belfast is a strip of coastline along the north of the country called the Causeway Coast.
Computer Science student Russell recently checked out the sandy beaches, bustling seaside towns and historic landmarks.
Instagram is a popular platform for bloggers to document beauty spots, scenic trips and plates of food that look like works of art.
Anthropology student Ciara Ashley highlights what makes Belfast an instagram-worthy spot.
In recognition of Pride month, Broadcast Production student Eliza is here to tell you all about the welcoming LGBTQ+ community you'll find at Queen's!
Are you starting to think about your uni application?
Worried about which uni is right for you when there are over 160 universities available in the UK alone?
Well, you are not alone and Niamh is here with some advice to help.
Coming from England many people asked me why I was going to Queen’s, especially as it seemed so far away.
Here are the main 7 reasons why I chose Queen’s University!
Ciara's put together a list of ideas on what to do in and around Belfast now that it’s warming up!
There's something for every budget!
Why spend your summer holidays working as a waiter, bar tender or shop assistants when you could do something really amazing like spending the summer working abroad?
Are you a GB student who is considering Queen's but concerned about travel costs and inconvenience?
Worry no more as Russell talks you through how quick, cheap and EASY it is to get to Belfast.
"A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and was honestly the best experience in my life" - Hear from James about his Study Abroad experience in the USA!
As soon as your studies are over for the summer, there are still vast opportunities to improve your CV, learn new skills and earn some money through the different programs run by Queen's.
Check out Charlotte's blog for tips.
Really hungry but not much time between classes?
Charlotte's here with her guide to the best places to grab some food around campus.
Warning...contains seriously delicious eats.
Considering Politics at Queen's?
Join Charlotte on her busiest day on campus as she takes you to all her lectures, trampolining and to the gym!
In recognition of LGBT+ History month this February, Broadcast Production student Eliza has shared 10 excellent LGBTQ films that you need to check out!
Belfast is number one in the UK for ice hockey but we also compete at football, rugby and Gaelic games.
Intrigued?
Find out where to get your sports fix in Belfast with student blogger Charlotte.
A club for every night of the week plus karaoke, beer pong, live music and dancing, check out Charlotte's blog on the best places for a night out in Belfast!
Where you for tonight?
You've seen the Titanic Building, City Hall, Victoria Square and the Harland and Wolff Cranes but there's so much more to Belfast!
Join Russell for his photo blog on the interesting spots he passes on his way to do the weekly shop!
With over 220 Clubs and Societies at Queen's you are sure to find your squad.
Second year student Charlotte is in more societies than we can list!* Here are her top six (Warning...contains amazing pics!
)
Belfast has a wide variety of things to do during the festive period, from Christmas markets to pantomimes.
There is something for everyone!
It's a big deal choosing to move to a different country for university.
We asked Liverpudlian student Ciara why she chose Queen's and what her mum Pauline thought about it!
Thinking Belfast is 'too far away' for uni because you have to get on a plane?
See how quick and easy it is in Tobias' video of his journey here.
Joining a Society may be the best thing you do in your life!
Okay, maybe not that important, but it can make the difference between a good university experience and a great one.
Here's James with his experience...
Nothing brings engineering to life like experience in industry.
Hear from Engineering student Rossita on her placement experience.
As a student at university, you’ll inevitability find yourself heading to a coffee shop from time to time, whether this is for studying or simply catching up with friends.
Tobias shares some of his favourite coffee spots around Belfast.
Worried about travelling to university, being lonely or being overloaded with work?
Tobias shares his expectations of university life and how they matched up to reality.
Belfast has some great spots for walking, running, and cycling.
These are a great way to take a break from your studies or escape Belfast’s city life.
Below Tobias shares some of his favourite spots.
The large number of bars and clubs in Belfast means you’re never too far away from a pint or two.
Tobias takes you from one end of the city to the other on one of the best Bar Crawl routes in Belfast.
Thinking Belfast is 'too far away' for uni because you have to get on a plane or a ferry?
See how you can save time and money with GB student Tobias' guide to getting here.
From student halls to rented properties, over the past three years at university, as a GB student, Tobias has experienced his fair share when it comes to student accommodation.
Here are his top tips on student housing in Belfast.
Queen’s Computing Society, better known as QCS, is an academic society aimed at those studying a EEECS subject but everyone is welcome.
Read more about the society and everything it has to offer.
Interested in studying Computer Science at Queen's?
Hear all about a day in the life of a student on the course from our GB blogger Tobias.
Ciara Ashley from Liverpool is a first-year Anthropology student and here is her experience of living in Queen's Accommodation (Elms BT1).
It's OK not to feel OK.
If you need support with your mental health take a look at Anthropology student Ciara's blog on all the support available at Queen's and beyond.
Wondering what there is to do in Belfast at the weekend?
Postgrad student Lindsey Crissey is here with her guide to The Black Box.
Is there a dormant society you wished was still going?
Or perhaps you want to start a new society?
Muhammad explains how he reignited the Medical Ethics Society.
From making friends to getting around, here's what Tobias believes every GB student should know when moving to Northern Ireland.
Settling into university can be a difficult experience, especially if you are new to the area and don’t know anyone.
Liverpudlian student Ciara explains what it is like to be a GB student studying at Queen’s and how to have the best time possible.
Find out what makes student life in Belfast so affordable.
Wanjiru Chigiti tells us about the cost of student living in Belfast and shares her top tips for how you can save some money.
Charlotte Baxter tells us her favourite places to get brunch in the city.
From the most instagram-worthy location to the best place in town for a brownie, Charlotte is full of great brunch-related advice!
Yi Kang Choo tells us about his top five day trip ideas for students living in Northern Ireland.
Charlotte Baxter tells us about her experience of starting at Queen's.
She talks us through how she felt while saying goodbye to school friends and family, finding her new home in Belfast, and meeting new people.
Here's some of the best activities our wee city has to offer - from classic pub crawls and museums to activities guaranteed to give you an adrenaline rush!
Georgina is a student from Surrey.
She tells us her tips for getting through Clearing and how to adjust to life in Northern Ireland.
Our exclusive Undergraduate Award is available for students commencing their undergraduate degree at Queen’s in September 2021.
Moving to a new city for uni can be daunting.
Here, three Queen's students from other parts of the UK reveal their first impressions of their adopted city of Belfast.
Coming through adjustment, especially being the only student in my school to do so that year, was a pleasantly surprising but simple process which led me to where I initially wanted to be in the first place – Queen's.
From cutting-edge comedy to big-band musicals, Belfast is home to some of the best theatre in the world.
From navigating a shared bathroom sitch to whether to bring your own pots, Peter Moor nixes all your freshers’ fears about halls.
You’re a uni newbie.
You might be away from home for the first time – it’s a big change.
Here at Queen’s, there are loads of support services available to make that transition that little bit easier.
When Peter started studying English and Linguistics at Queen's he knew he wanted his future career to allow him to keep writing.
Today he's sharing how a Queen's bursary has helped him with Work Experience Opportunities.
So, you've applied for your preferred Universities and now you're waiting for the offers to start flooding in.
But it doesn't stop there, UCAS applications are just the start of your journey!
Here's how to prepare for the next steps.
Think it's expensive to get to Queen's?
Think again!
Peter is sharing his tips and tricks for getting cheap flights to Belfast, including how to get all your luggage here on a budget.
The Experience Queen's Events, held in Manchester and London, are the perfect taster session for offer holders.
Peter Moor is here to share why you definitely need to come along.
Peter is sharing his thoughts on what it's really like to live in Queen's Accommodation whilst studying and why you should consider applying for a room too.
Higher Education Fairs are the perfect way to really get a feel for your future University!
Here are 5 questions you should definitely ask.
Did you know that there are a variety of student jobs available at Queen’s?
From the QFT to the SU Shop, even Blogging, there are lots of interesting roles!
Alisha is sharing why working for Queen’s is the perfect way to fit a job around her studies.
It's almost time to make your final decisions about what University you'll pick as your "Firm" Choice.
Peter is sharing his reasons for choosing Queen's and why it was the perfect decision for him.
Have you ever considered being on the committee of your favourite society at Queen's?
Alisha is talking about her experience being the English Society Secretary as well as why she thinks everyone should consider applying for a post.
As summer graduation approaches, some students are nearly ready to take their next steps into the world of work.
Peter is sharing his tips for getting the most from the Careers Service at Queen's.
Peter is just one of the many students who currently benefit from a Scholarship at Queen's.
He's sharing all the ways receiving it has helped him during his time at Queen's.
A languages degree at Queen's is a blend of language and grammar, enhancing your appreciation of culture, and giving you an insight into a new way of life.
Plus with the year abroad in the third year, the world is yours to explore.
You don't need to break the bank to have a good day out in Belfast!
In fact, the city is packed with great places to visit and enjoy when you're on a budget.
What is the Russell Group and what does it mean for students who study at a Russell Group University?
Peter share's his thoughts on why choosing a research-intensive university was a perfect fit.
There are lots of reasons you might find yourself using Clearing to secure a University Place but it can still be a nervewracking experience.
Francesca is sharing her Clearing story and how it helped her find the perfect course at Queen's.
Summer break is the perfect time to reflect on your academic goals and what you want to get out of University.
Olaoluwayode is sharing some tips on how she is using the time off to set new goals for  next term.
With two airports, 74 flight routes, and 3 Ferry Crossings- getting to Belfast is much simpler than you think.
Charlie is sharing his experience and tips for anyone travelling to Queen's for the first time.
Every year lots of students find a University Place using Clearing.
Gabriella is sharing her top tips for making that process go as smoothly as possible.
With exam results freshly released and smiles on many people’s faces as they have received the grades that they have been waiting nervously for all Summer – it’s time to prepare for Freshers Week!
Charlie shares his experience of studying at Queen's with a visual impairment and offers some advice for how to make sure you're getting the support you need to succeed.
We asked second year student Charlotte what she wishes she'd known as a first year at Queen’s.
Use her tips to adapt to student life on campus.
Planning ahead to the summer?
Final year student Gabriella Dancer explains why Camp America offers personal and professional growth
Gabriella is a postgraduate student from London.
She originally found Queen's through Clearing but enjoyed her time here so much that she decided to stay for a Master’s degree.
Aaron Johnson is a 1st year Law student from Lancashire who found Queen's through Clearing last year.
He tells us what he wishes he'd known about Clearing and how choosing Queen's has been his best decision ever.
Worried Belfast is too far from your family?
Don’t be.
With cheap airfares and super speedy flight times, your nearest and dearest won’t be able to resist a visit (or three).
Emily Stephenson, a third year Biological Student, tells us the dos and don'ts of packing for your first year at university.
There are many 'first times' when you first join Queen's, says Una Jackson.
Here's how to survive and thrive.
At Queen’s, Una Jackson found the freedom to express herself, all helped by Belfast’s charity and thrift shops.
Warning: strangers will hug you!
From Brexit borders to NI politics, three students who came to Queen’s from England reveal the most bizarre – and untrue -  things they’ve been asked about student life in Belfast.
Three Queen's students from England talk journey times – and prices – when travelling to Queen’s.
Undergraduate Architect student, Alice Poole from the Cotswolds explains the unexpected ways Queen’s GB scholarship package benefitted her.
It’s December which means there are not too many sleeps till Christmas now!
Before heading home for the holidays, get into the festive spirit with these Christmassy tips
How does £2,500 a year sound?
How about free flight, room upgrades and more?
Read on…
Thinking about studying English at Queen's?
Peter is sharing his tips on what to expect from your first year and how to get the most out of your studies.
The clocks have just gone back.
It’s properly autumn now - the perfect time to take a walk on the weekend and see a bit more of Northern Ireland.
Here’s my top 4 walking jaunts:
Club and societies are great way to make friends when you start uni.
There’s over 200 to choose from – there’s sure to be one that’ll take your fancy.
For Peter, it was the Literific Debating Society.
Game of Thrones – the world’s top TV show.
You might not know – a load of it is filmed in and around Belfast.
Check out these 4 ways to become a GoT tourist!
POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!
What’s the best way to set you up for the day?
No this isn’t some cereal promotion blog.
The best way is to have a good old Ulster Fry or another top Belfast breakfast.
Here’s my top 5 breakfast haunts in Belfast.
It’s the weekend!
No more lectures or tutorials, so what to do?
Here’s my pick of activities to keep entertained (rather than just lying in bed for the whole weekend!)
Queen’s may be that bit further away on the map from other UK universities, but it offers everything you could want from your uni experience (shh!
just don’t tell everyone!)
When you start uni, you do have to fend for yourself - and that means cooking and buying your own food!
Thankfully, there are plenty of places around uni to get your groceries.
Belfast is the cheapest student city in the UK according to Which?
University.
But don’t just trust the stats – here are six reasons why student life here really is more affordable.
For those of you just starting at Queen’s then welcome to Belfast!
If you’re anything like me, you’ll love it!
Here’s some top tips of things to get you started in your first few weeks at Queen’s.
With this guide, moving to uni in Northern Ireland will be as easy as moving to the uni down the road in England.
We defy you not to get the warm and fuzzies when you hear the accent.
If you’re coming to the Open Day then let’s hope you’ve got an hour or two to spare before heading home as there’s a load to do in Belfast.
Here’s 5 things to check out while you’re here.
Northern Ireland is a foodie paradise with loads of food not found anywhere else in the UK.
While you’re here on the Open Day, try out this foodie treasure hunt and take one point for each one that you try!
Belfast is an amazing city in itself, but it’s also a gateway for exploring Ireland, the rest of the UK, Europe and beyond.
Make the most of the uni holidays and jet off on a cheap city break from Belfast!
Here is some of my travel inspo’.
Before applying to universities, I went to a load of open days - they’re the perfect opportunity to see which uni suits you.
Here are 6 reasons to visit a Queen’s open day.
At Queen’s, we have developed an inspiring programme of talks, tours, workshops and events that connects GB students and teachers to the Queen’s community.
It’s the summer at last.
Time for barbecues and burgers.
If the weather isn’t that great for a barbie, then nip into one of these top five Belfast burger haunts!
Northern Ireland, home of wheaten, soda and potato bread.
But where can you get your share of baked goods in and around Belfast?
The chance to travel and give your CV a massive boost at the same time?
Sign me up!
Queen’s has a rep as one of the premier sporting universities in the UK and Ireland.
Here are just some of the reasons why.
So, you’ve got the grades and confirmed your offer at Queen’s, but now you face what seems like your first big feat as an adult – moving out.
Whether you're a movie buff or only in it for the blockbusters, there's a cinema to suit everyone in Belfast!
It’s easier than you think to pop home for a visit!
Six hours of class a week does not mean it's easy, okay?
From a typical timetable to what happens inside the lecture theatre, Peter Moor reveals what it’s like to be an English student at Queen’s.
On April 15th 1912, the famous Titanic ship sunk; 106 years on, Belfast pays homage to the passengers of the doomed liner.
Campus tour guide Peter Moor explains why visiting Queen’s is the only way to get a feel for the university and the city.
Row, row, row your boat gently down the Lagan, says guest blogger Emily Romeril, a member of Queen's Rowing Club
Yes, you’re in Northern Ireland, but that doesn’t mean that you have to stick with endless Ulster Frys and bowls galore of beef stew.
Take the chance to go a bit exotic and try some of these international foodie hotspots around Belfast.
With these air travel tips, the one-hour flight to Belfast from your UK city will be a doddle, says Peter Moor, from Huddersfield.
You’re going to university.
The reality is you’re going to be doing a fair bit of reading.
The perfect excuse to take a nosey round some of the cutest bookshops in and around Queen’s, says Peter Moor.
There are lots of affordable areas where students choose to live after they move on from Queen’s accommodation.
Here, undergraduate Alisha Ratcliffe explains why she chose Stranmillis.
Fun, friends and fitness are just a few of the reasons to take the plunge, says Lucy Brown from Cambridge, England, a member of Queen’s Underwater Hockey Club
The Irish capital is less than two hours by train and costs as little as a tenner return, so it’s well worth a day trip, says undergraduate Peter Moor, from Huddersfield, England.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/England-Scotland-Wales/gbscholarship-25:
Applying to university can be a stressful time so we have recently updated our requirements for the GB Scholarship 2025 entry to remove grade requirements to give some certainty to eligible students applying to Queen’s.
Northern Ireland has the lowest student living costs in the UK.
GB scholarship is only applicable to 2025 entry students.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Feesandfinance/pay-tuition-fees:
How you pay your tuition fees will depend on whether you are externally funded, self funded or internally funded.
You may be considered to be an externally funded student if you are receiving financial support from the Student Loans Company or a government funding body, being funded by a sponsor or in receipt of an educational loan.
You may be considered to be a self funded student if you are funding your own studies, getting financial help from family or friends, or are receiving financial assistance directly from an external funder.
You may be considered to be an internally funded student if you are receiving a University scholarship or funding which cover the full cost of your tuition fees and is not paid directly to you.
Find out the various ways you can pay your tuition fees, or pay a deposit towards your tuition fees, if you are externally funded or self funded:
You may be considered an externally-funded student if you are:
If you are receiving funds for your tuition fees directly from your sponsor to pay the University then you are considered to be a self funded student.
In the event that all or part of a student's tuition fees are not paid on their behalf by an organisation, authority or sponsor, then the student will become personally liable to pay the tuition fees to the University
Sponsors will be invoiced by 1 st November and will normally have 60 days to pay.
If the sponsor defaults, students will be personally liable to pay the tuition fees to the University from 31 st January.
Eligible NI, GB and ROI students will be able to borrow the full cost of tuition from the Government, in the form of a tuition fee loan.
The tuition fee loan is not currently means-tested and is available to all eligible students.
Students can apply online for a tuition fee loan, maintenance loan and grant at the following links:
Student Finance NI
Student Finance England
Student Finance Wales
Student Finance Scotland
If you are an undergraduate NI, GB or ROI student, with a confirmed tuition fee loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC), which covers your full tuition fees, we will confirm this directly with the SLC.
An overview of Student Finance Funding is available here
Students from Scotland must submit their notification of tuition fee funding by email to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
If you wish to be automatically assessed for the Queen’s Bursary please ensure that you agree to share your financial information from your student finance application with the University.
Students normally resident in Northern Ireland can apply online for a tuition fee loan at Student Finance NI .
Your tuition fee loan will be paid directly to the University on your behalf.
Students normally resident in Scotland can apply online for a tuition fee loan at Student Finance Scotland .
Students normally resident in England and Wales can apply online for a tuition fee loan at Students resident in England and Wales .
Your tuition fee loan is paid directly to you.
Therefore students funding their Masters with this loan, must pay a minimum 33% deposit payment at enrolment, followed by equal payments at the end of January and April.
These dates are line with the loan instalment payment dates.
To sign up to this arrangement students should download and complete a Payment Plan application form and return this to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
In Northern Ireland, the Department of Health (DoH) provides bursaries for eligible medical and dental students.
These bursaries are available for the fifth and later years of study in the UK.
If you are a medical student and you expect your fees to be paid by the NHS Bursary Scheme you have to first apply for a bursary with the NHS directly.
Applications must be made within six months of the start of the academic year.
If you require further assistance, please contact the NHS student helpline on 0300 330 1345 or visit the NHS website: NHS Bursaries
Please note that failure to apply on time could result in you becoming personally liable for your fees.
Sponsored students should inform the University that they are being sponsored during Enrolment and Registration (E&R) when coming through the E&R Portal.
On the Portal there is an opportunity to select the option 'My fees will be paid by an External Sponsor' on the Payment Summary screen and on the subsequent screen to complete the sponsor details and upload a Sponsor Authorisation Form .
If your sponsor has already provided you with a letter this must contain the following information below.
Sponsor letters or Sponsor Authorisation Forms not uploaded in the E&R Portal can be emailed to sponsors@qub.ac.uk
An invoice will normally be issued to sponsors in November each year.
Payment is due 30 days from the date of invoice.
The tuition fee liability will revert to the student if fees remain outstanding after the due date.
Suspensions will be applied to student accounts should these fees continue to remain outstanding.
If you have any further queries please contact sponsors@qub.ac.uk .
If you are a student with an educational loan from the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, Canada, Latin America or India you will have to send proof of your funding.
This also applies if you are a student with a Career Development Loan or any private Educational Loan.
Proof of funding should be emailed to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
If you are a student from the US please refer to US loans .
You may be considered to be a self funded student if you are:
You can pay your tuition fees now through your Qsis account via the Flywire Portal.
Pay now
Flywire allows you to:
*** International students ***
Please note that you can continue to pay your tuition fees in your home currency - just select the International Payment option on your student account when you are making a payment and then select the bank transfer option which will always be the cheapest method of paying your fees.
This means you do not have to transfer your money to a UK bank account to pay your tuition fees.
Payment Plans dates detailed below are for 2025-26
Two Payment Plans are available through our Flywire Payment Platform when completing financial registration.
You must pay your first instalment of your tuition fees when completing your financial registration to be eligible to sign up to one of these Payment Plans.
Dates of the Monthly and Term Payment Plans are below.
The balance of your outstanding tuition fees will then be spread equally over the payment dates of the plan selected.
Please note that you can continue to pay your tuition fees in your home currency even if you sign up to a payment plan - just select the International Payment option on your student account when you are making a payment and then select the bank transfer option which will always be the cheapest method of paying your fees.
How your fees are calculated is set out in the University's Student Finance Framework
Please read the following Sections:
Section 3 for full details of how tuition fees are calculated
Section 4 for full details on your tuition fees payment responsibility
Section 5 for how tuition fees are recalculated on withdrawal or leave of absence and any eligibility to refunds
Full-time Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Students
The date when a student withdraws affects the level of tuition fees which may be refunded, and it may also affect the student loan.
Fee adjustments are calculated with reference to the date of withdrawal from the University, not the last date of attendance, and cannot be actioned if the withdrawal procedure has not been followed correctly.
The table below, demonstrates how the adjustment is calculated.
First Liability Date - Completion of Enrolment and Registration (non-refundable unless the student cancels the contract in accordance with the Terms and Conditions for 2025 entry)
Part-time Undergraduate and Part-time Postgraduate Taught Students
Further details of the withdrawal and module drop policy for part-time students are outlined in Section 5.4.2 of the Student Finance Framework.
The tuition fee liability for a Postgraduate Research student withdrawal, or a Temporary Leave of Absence, is based on the official date of withdrawal in the academic year, and a refund will be issued, if appropriate.
Refunds
A refund of tuition fees may be made if a student withdraws from their programme of study.
Refunds are calculated with reference to the date of withdrawal from the University and the fee liability dates as outlined in Table 3 above.
A non-refundable payment of 25% of the calculated fee is due at enrolment.
The initial payment is non-refundable unless the applicant or student cancels their contract with the University in accordance with clause 34-36 of the Terms and Conditions for 2025 Entry https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/TermsandConditions/
Students are personally responsible for ensuring their tuition fees, including any element of tuition fees payable by sponsors, are paid in accordance with clauses 14-19 of the University’s Terms and Conditions 2025.
In accepting the offer of registration, a student accepts a contractual liability to pay the tuition fee for the duration of their course in accordance with these requirements.
Communications regarding Outstanding Tuition Fees The University will email invoices and reminders by system generated communication to a student’s Queen’s University Belfast email account.
It is a student’s responsibility to log into their QUB email account and action these communications.
Failure to check this email address is not an acceptable reason for late or non-payment of tuition fees due.
Communications relating to outstanding tuition fees due, will be sent from 1st October.
Further communications will be sent weekly thereafter for non-payment which will escalate in nature, outlining the University's debt management procedure and the sanctions imposed for non-payment of tuition fees by a communicated date.
Externally Funded Students
Sponsors will be invoiced by 1 st October and have 30 days to pay your tuition fees.
In the event that all or part of your tuition fees are not paid on your behalf by your sponsor you will personally be liable to pay the tuition fees to the University and subject to the sanctions detailed below.
Student / Educational Loan
If you are paying your fees via the SLC, SAAS or another student loan body you must ensure that you have completed your application with this funding body and that your application has been approved.
Where this is not approved, you will be deemed to be paying your own fees.
Full payment of tuition fees will be due by 10th October 2025 .
Failure to pay tuition fees, or make appropriate arrangements to pay outstanding tuition fees, by the payment deadline notified will lead to the following sanctions being applied.
Communications will be sent monthly commencing in October and on the first of each month thereafter.
These communications will be sent to the student’s QUB email account.
Further communications and text messages will be sent over a 28-day period requesting tuition fees are paid in full or student signs up to an approved payment plan to pay outstanding tuition fees to avoid sanctions to being imposed.
Sanctions will be imposed 28-days after the initial notification where tuition fees remain outstanding.
Dates of communications and dates restrictions will be applied are outlined below
You will receive these communication if you have not: Paid your fees in full, signed up to a payment, submitted a sponsor letter or have your student loan approved.
If you fail any payment plan instalments you will also receive these communications
Sanction Date IT Restriction
Sanction Date Withdrawal
What Sanctions will be applied IT Restrictions •    University will restrict your access to Canvas, the University’s virtual learning environment (VLE) and Library facilities.
•    The sanction will remain in place until such time that a suitable arrangement to pay tuition fees is in place and/or the outstanding account balance is settled in full.
When outstanding tuition fees have been paid in full, it will take up to 24 hours for your restriction to be lifted.
For restrictions applied from February onwards, tuition fees must be paid in full to have these restrictions lifted
Withdrawal Students who are subject to an IT Restriction and who still have outstanding tuition fees due after 7 days will be sent a notification of pending withdrawn from the University.
Students will be withdrawn after 14 days of this communication All outstanding tuition fees must be paid in full to avoid withdrawal.
Additional Sanctions for Non-Payment of Tuition Fees for International Students
Further Sanctions for all Students
Registration Sanction
Graduation Restriction
You can access Qsis by clicking here to make an immediate payment.
Click on the 'My Student Finance' icon and then click on the Account Activity tab.
The 'Print Term Statement' option is available for each academic year that there is activity on your student account.
If you need to sign up to a payment plan to pay your outstanding fees in instalments, click on the Payment Plans tab to see the options for payment that are available to you.
If you have any queries with the amount outstanding, please visit Service Requests | My Queen's | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk) and log a request in the Fees and Finance menu.
We strongly encourage you to engage with the University and make appropriate arrangements to pay your tuition fees to avoid sanctions for non-payment.
You can also contact the Student Finance Office @ studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
Students who are experiencing unforeseen financial difficulties which are supported by exceptional circumstances may contact SU Advice at su.advice@qub.ac.uk
Please note that financial problems are not deemed exceptional circumstances .
The University will be sympathetic and assist where it can, however, the quality of teaching is dependent on funding and the University must therefore act to recover all outstanding debts.
Please read the Financial Registration guide to assist you completing your financial registration

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Feesandfinance/fees-and-funding-faqs:
Students are required to complete ONLINE registration at the start of each academic year via the Qsis Registration Portal .
If you’re having trouble completing your registration for the academic year, please visit Enrolment and Registration | My Queen's | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk) for more information.
For help completing your financial registration, please refer to the financial registration guide on the Enrolment and Registration website
How do I pay my fees?
The University has partnered with Flywire to provide a facility for students to either pay their fees in full at enrolment and registration or to sign up to pay in instalments.
This payment method allows international and home students to pay in their local currency.
The benefits to students paying by Flywire include:
During your Online Enrolment you will have the option to pay your fees in full, or to sign up to pay your tuition fees by a Payment Plan.
Payment Plans can be set up through our Flywire Payment Portal, which will provide students with the choice to pay in a variety of currency and payment methods.
For 2025-26, the standard tuition fee payment plan options are:
Option 1 : Pay a 25 % instalment of net fees (tuition fees less scholarship + deposit) due at enrolment followed by equal instalments on:
Option 2 : Pay a 2 5% instalment of net fees (tuition fees less scholarship + deposit) due at enrolment followed by equal monthly instalments:
Available Payment Methods
You will be directed to the Flywire payment portal during Enrolment and Registration to complete the Finance section.
You will be able to sign up to one of the two available payment plans and details of how to do this are available in the financial registration guide on the Enrolment and Registration website .
First year students - please note that you need to return to the Enrolment and Registration portal to complete your registration as described in the above guide.
You will not be registered until you hit confirm in the E&R portal.
The Flywire portal provides competitive exchange rates and a range of payment options.
Exchange rates are subject to fast moving changes on the international currency markets.
Flywire offers a best price guarantee for international bank transfer payments, where if you are offered a better rate at your bank within two hours of booking a local currency bank transfer payment Flywire will match it.
Best Price Guarantee for International Payments | Flywire
No, the university bank details are not given out for payments via bank transfer.
All payments must be made through our Flywire Payment Portal
While completing enrolment and registration, you should pick each of your modules.
If your fees are showing as £0, please check with your school to ensure you are enrolled properly in each of your modules.
When completing financial registration in the E&R Portal students are asked to either pay their tuition fees in full or sign up to pay their tuition fees by one of the other payment options offered by the University.
Please see https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/pay-tuition-fees/ for these options.
By the 30th of September, students whose course starts in Semester one, should have done one of the following:
Please see details of deadline for payment and sanctions for non payment of tuition fees
Pay your Tuition Fees
We recommend that you make payment online through the My Student Finance tile on your Qsis homepage as it is the quickest method and means you can pay anytime 24/7.
If you are having trouble paying through your Qsis account, please ensure that you have an internet connection and try a different device or computer.
If you are still having problems you can telephone +44 (0)28 96 202020 Monday-Friday 9:30-4:30 except during university closure days.
A confirmation of payment will be provided at the point of payment.
A further email will be sent by Flywire confirming that the payment has been sent to Queen's University Belfast.
Your receipt is proof that Flywire have now received your money and are in the process of transferring it to Queen’s University.
You can request a receipt when making a payment and this will be sent to you by email.
Go to the My Student Finance tile on your Qsis homepage to access your student account and you can print a statement displaying all payments made on your account.
I have SLC funding
Please refer to the link below for further information
Tuition fees | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
The tuition fee loan is not means-tested and is available to all eligible students.
Students can apply online for a tuition fee loan, maintenance loan and grant using the following links:
If you are an undergraduate student from NI, England, Wales or the EU, with a confirmed tuition fee loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC), which covers your full tuition fees, we will confirm this directly with the SLC.
Students from Scotland must submit their proof of tuition fee funding by email to studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
Please note that you should apply for your tuition fee loan prior to starting the academic year to ensure your tuition fee loan has been approved by the start of the academic year.
an application must be made for each year of study.
Students normally resident in Northern Ireland can apply online for a tuition fee loan at Student Finance NI .
Students normally resident in England and Wales can apply online for a tuition fee loan at Student Finance England or Student Finance Wales .
Students funding their master’s with this loan must sign up to pay in three instalments of 33%, 33% and 34%.
For registration you should select the SLC option on Table 3 of the Payment Summary page.
PGT students with a GB residency will be asked if the money is paid to their bank account.
Select 'Yes' and input the full balance of fees against this payment method.
Please ensure to sign up to the GBL 3-part payment plan on Flywire - payment dates will be October, February, and May.
If you have applied for a maintenance loan and received confirmation of your funding, you should receive your maintenance loan into your bank account within 3-4 days of completing your registration with the university.
If you do not receive it, please contact your funding authority to see if there has been a delay.
If they confirm that it has not been delayed, please email reghelp@qub.ac.uk and include your student support reference number and student number so that we can investigate this for you.
If your SLC loan has not been approved before you enrol, please still indicate when registering that you expect SLC to be funding your tuition fees.
The SLC course code relating to your course which needs to be entered in your student loan application can be found at:
https://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/sgc/srecords/StudentLoanApplications/ApplicationProcess
If your annual household income has changed by more than 15% within the year, you can apply for a current year assessment by completing the form on the gov.uk website, as you may be entitled to extra funding.
Your student loan information will be imported to your student financial account by mid-late September.
Once your loan of £6500 is added, your remaining balance which needs assigned to a payment plan.
In the registration portal you should update £6500 in the SLC page and then select the Self-Financing option to either pay the remaining balance in full, or set up a Payment Plan to pay in instalments.
Flywire will calculate the plan based on your full fees when you are completing your financial registration.
Once we import the student loan information and assign your loan to your student financial account, the Payment Plan will readjust and your instalments will be based on your tuition fee balance after the loan is deducted.
SFNI PG fee loan payments come directly to us so you will not be involved in this side of things.
You just need to commit to a payment plan for your self-funded element.
PLEASE NOTE - if your loan has not yet been approved, your 1st instalment payment due on the 1/10/24 will be calculated off your FULL remaining balance.
I am externally sponsored
A sponsor letter will need to be provided at the beginning of each academic year, at enrolment and registration.
Full details of what needs to be included in this letter are available in the External Sponsor section of this webpage Pay your Tuition Fees | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
The sponsor letter should be uploaded in the E&R Portal during registration.
Sponsor letters not uploaded in the E&R Portal can be emailed to sponsors@qub.ac.uk
Please find attached our Sponsor Form which you should have your sponsor complete prior to E&R.
An invoice will normally be issued to sponsors in October of each year.
The tuition fee liability will revert to the student if fees remain outstanding after this due date.
Medical and Dental students
If you are a medical student and you expect your fees to be paid by the NHS Bursary Scheme you must first apply for a bursary with the NHS directly.
Nursing and Midwifery students
Eligible students may have their fees paid for the duration of the three-year degree by the Department of Health (DoH) and may also receive a bursary – this is known as a ‘commissioned’ place.
The bursary is intended to assist with daily living costs incurred while training and is awarded for each year of the three-year course; it will normally be paid in monthly instalments.
To be eligible for a commissioned place, applicants must be an NI or EU national living in NI with settled status.
Further conditions may apply.
In order to find out more about the bursary, please contact the Bursary Administration Unit:
Bursary Administration Unit Business Services Organisation 2 Franklin Street Belfast BT2 8DQ Tel: 028 9536 3988 / 3818 Email: studentnurse.bursaries@hscni.net Web: www.health-ni.gov.uk
Graduate students, or dependent undergraduate students and their parents, can normally borrow up to the full cost of attendance of their programme (including tuition, subsistence and airfare).
If your tuition fees are zero there are a few possible explanations:
We have already received your sponsor letter and have assigned the tuition fee debt to your sponsor therefore no outstanding fees will be showing on your own financial account
You have not enrolled on any modules.
How do I get a receipt of payment for my tuition fees?
A further email will be sent by Flywire confirming that the payment has been sent to Queen's University Belfast.
This should be treated as your official receipt for payment of your fees, unless you need one for tax purposes.
How much are my tuition fees?
Tuition fees are available for all courses at Queen's Coursefinder for UG, PG courses (qub.ac.uk)
Details are also available at Tuition fees | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
For information on how tuition fees are calculated please follow the link: https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/ and then scroll down and refer to the red boxes near the bottom of the screen called ‘Tuition Fee Schedule’, and  ’Student Finance Framework’ refer to sections 3 and 4 of the ‘Student Finance Framework’
Tuition fees are also available for all courses at Queen's Coursefinder for UG, PG courses (qub.ac.uk)
Details are also available at Tuition Fees | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
For more information on how tuition fees are calculated please follow the link: https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/ and then scroll down and refer to the red boxes near the bottom of the screen called ‘Tuition Fee Schedule’, and  ’Student Finance Framework’ refer to sections 3 and 4 of the ‘Student Finance Framework’
For information on tuition fees are please follow the link: https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/ and then scroll down and refer to the red box near the bottom of the screen called ‘Tuition Fee Schedule’
Placement fees are noted on Page 4 and Study Abroad fees are available on Page 5
Undergraduate Part-time
A student is normally classified as part-time if the total CATS points of the course that is being studied, throughout the academic year, are less than, or equal to 90 CATS points.
Fees will be charged according to CATS points, based on the fee rate for the course of study.
The CATS points may be studied in any combination, across the semesters of Autumn, Spring, Summer and/or Full Year.
Postgraduate Part-time
A student is normally classified as part-time if the total CATS points of the course being studied that he/she is studying are less than or equal to 120 CATS points for the academic year.
Fees for part-time students are assessed by semester (or module).
Therefore, separate fees will be applicable, depending on whether a student has enrolled in Autumn, Spring, Summer or Full Year modules, and each type of module will be subject to a specific withdrawal policy (as set out below).
This policy will apply to the dropping of individual modules, as well as a full withdrawal from a semester or academic year, when studying in a part-time mode.
This part-time withdrawal and module drop policy will also apply where a full-time student drops to part-time and remains in attendance in the academic year.
The modules dropped will have drop charges calculated based on the dates detailed in Table 4.
Table 4 below illustrates the withdrawal and module drop rates, by semester, together with the fee due percentages.
Withdrawal and Module Drop Dates and Fee Implications
Withdrawal and Module Drop Dates
Fee due to the University
Autumn Modules
Spring Modules
Summer Modules
Full Year Modules
Completion of Enrolment and Registration
25%
From 1 November 2025
From
1 March 2026
1 July 2026
50%
75%
From 1 December 2025
1 April 2026
1 August 2026
100%
It should be noted that it is the student’s responsibility to ensure that their enrolment onto their course is correct by the end of the period in which module swaps are allowed.
This will require the student to validate the information available via self-service and to contact the relevant School(s) immediately if there are questions or concerns.
In normal circumstances, an incorrect enrolment on the student’s record will not entitle the student to a refund after the cut-off date for swapping modules.
Undergraduate Full-time
A student is normally classified as full-time, if the total CATS points of the course being studied are greater than 90 CATS points, for the academic year.
A full-time fee will be charged, based on the fee rate for the course of study.
Postgraduate Full-time
A student is normally classified as full-time if the total CATS points of the course that is being studied are greater than 120 CATS points for the academic year.
This includes the fee for the submission of a dissertation, where appropriate.
The determination of the status of a Postgraduate Research student is normally based on the number of hours of study per week.
The annual fee will be based on the fee rate for the course of study.
However, to accommodate the more flexible nature of commencing and completing research degrees, the method of fee calculation will differ for research students.
The fee will be calculated on a monthly basis, pro-rated for the academic year in which the student starts.
In the month that the student commences their studies, a monthly fee will only be calculated if the student is deemed to be in attendance on, or before, the 5 th of that month.
In all subsequent months, a monthly fee will be calculated if the student is deemed to be in for 20 calendar days or more.
All PGR students are required to pay the minimum period of studies before thesis submission, or the full normal period of studies before changing to thesis only status, in the line with the General Regulations which can be found at www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/GeneralRegulations/StudyRegulations/
At registration, students will be charged the appropriate number of monthly fees up to the end of the academic year.
If a student commences studies at the start of the academic year, the student will be charged twelve monthly fees.
If a student completes their course of study during the academic year, the fee will be recalculated, and a refund may become due.
(ii)       Part-time
Part-time research students are assessed on the basis that they are studying less than 21 hours per week, normally over a period of more than 18 weeks, on the course of study.
The fee is calculated and charged based on 50% of the full-time fee.
(iii)       Thesis Only
Following confirmation by the Progress Review Panel that the student has completed all the necessary research, and after approval by the relevant School Committee, a student may be registered as thesis only (writing up) for one year only (regardless of the previous full-time or part-time status).
Following the period of thesis only, where a student has not submitted their thesis, the student will be returned to their original mode of study, i.e., full-time or part-time.
On the occasion when a thesis is required to be re-submitted, a resubmission charge will be payable by the student as set out in the Tuition Fees and Related Charges Schedule.
Research students should note that the full fee for the remaining part of the academic year is calculated on registration.
This full amount will appear on the student’s account even if there is a Leave of Absence planned or a Thesis submission is anticipated.
The total fees owed to the University will then be re-calculated once the Leave of Absence has commenced or the thesis submitted.
The purpose of the following section is to ensure a consistent approach to the application of withdrawals and refunds.
This section should be read in conjunction with clause 34-36 of the Terms and Conditions for 2025 Entry at https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/TermsandConditions/
The following guiding principles have been applied:
Dropped Modules
No fee refund will apply if a full-time student drops modules and still meets the criteria for a full-time student.
This is because the full-time fee will continue to apply.
If a full-time student drops modules and meets the criteria for a part-time student, a fee refund may be applicable.
Withdrawals
Any student may, on a voluntary or required basis, withdraw either permanently or temporarily from the University or programme of study at any point in the year.
The following sections are relevant in the context of assessing the fee implications of withdrawals and refunds
Table 3 below, demonstrates how the adjustment is calculated.
Fee Liability Dates Student Finance Framework 2025-26
Attendance / SLC Liability Point
Normal Effective Period
Fees due to the University
Up to 5 January 2026*
Second Liability Date
5 January 2026 – 12 April 2026*
Final Liability Date
13 April 2026 onwards*
Dates may be subject to change following review of the academic year
Part-time Undergraduate and Part-time Postgraduate Taught Students - See Section 5.2.2 of the Student Finance Framework
Further details of the withdrawal and module drop policy for part-time students are outlined in Section 5.4.2 below.
Please see International Scholarships | Study | Queen's University Belfast for eligibility and terms & conditions for the University's Scholarships.
Please note where a student initially enrols as full time and are eligible for a scholarship, if they change to part-time, by withdrawing or dropping modules and change to part-time they will no longer be entitled to receive the scholarship.
Definitions are available @ Section 3 of the Student Finance Framework
Postgraduate Taught Full-time
Find out more at: Scholarships | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
And Funding and Scholarships | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
Find out more at: Funding and Scholarships | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
Find out more at https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships/
Please see https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships/terms-and-conditions/early-confirmation-award-terms-and-conditions/ for details of the Early Confirmation Reward.
https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/international-students/international-scholarships/terms-and-conditions/early-confirmation-award-terms-and-conditions/ for details of this reward.
Note students must have paid their full tuition fees less the amount of the Early Confirmation reward and have emailed proof of payment to internationalscholarships@qub.ac.uk in order to get the fee discount applied to their student account on Qsis.
At busy periods such as Enrolment and Registration, please note that it can take up to 5 days after the payment has reached the University’s bank account for the discount to appear on your student account on Qsis.
Please use the internationalscholarships@qub.ac.uk email address if you have any queries about the Early Confirmation Reward.
Additional fees and course costs
The University recognises that the pandemic may also have caused some students to experience financial difficulties.
As such, we have committed to providing fee-free resits for all students who have failed a module in 2024-25 to ensure that every student can access the opportunity to attempt to pass the module, and progress with their studies.
This fee-free resit opportunity must be taken within the 2024-25 academic year.
Please refer to your course using the course finder at Queen's Coursefinder for UG, PG courses (qub.ac.uk)
Within the fees and funding section, any additional costs will be specified.
For the academic year 2025-26
In the event that your tuition fees have not been paid in full by the relevant final payment date (date provided in your letter requesting payment) or in accordance with our fee payment options (by signing up to a payment plan and making all payments on the due date ), we shall be entitled to implement our debt management procedures including one or more of the following: refuse to permit you to continue on your programme of study; suspend you from the University; and terminate the Contract (without incurring any liability to you) in accordance with the below:
Refusal to permit you to continue your programme of study – The University reserves the right to restrict student access to learning resources including “Canvas”, the University’s virtual learning platform, and other IT and library facilities These restrictions shall continue  until arrangements are made by the Student to pay the outstanding fees in accordance with the Student Finance Framework incorporating the Tuition Fee Payment Procedure available at https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/ .
Suspension – The University reserves the right to terminate your defaulted payment plan and suspend you from the University.
All Students subject to suspension shall not be permitted to register in the next academic year or be permitted to graduate.
In not being able to graduate, by default, Students shall not be eligible to obtain a degree, diploma, certificate, or other academic award granted and conferred by the University, attend a graduation ceremony, or receive a transcript of marks.
Termination of contract – The University reserves the right to expel the Student from the University and terminate their contract without incurring any liability to the Student.
If a Student holds a UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) Student Visa and/or is sponsored by the University and subsequently withdrawn from their programme of study due to non-payment of tuition fees in accordance with clause 20, the University reserves the right to withdraw sponsorship of the Student Visa and to notify UKVI that sponsorship of the Student Visa has been withdrawn.
Deposits
To see if you are required to pay a deposit for your course, please refer to the following link: Payment of deposits | International | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
Queen’s University Belfast has partnered with Flywire to provide a simple and cost-effective payment method.
Please see the link below to make an online bank transfer by Flywire.
FLYWIRE
Payment of deposits | International | Queen's University Belfast
You need to email a copy of your receipt of payment of your deposit to all of the following email addresses, as proof of payment:
Student Finance Office @ studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
International Admissions @ intl.admissions@qub.ac.uk
CAS Information @ cas.info@qub.ac.uk
If you drop modules, take a leave of absence, withdraw from your programme or have overpaid for any reason, you may be entitled to a refund.
Your student finance account must be in credit - you can check the balance on your account by checking at QSIS
For information on how your tuition fees may change in these circumstances, please refer to Section 5 Withdrawals and Refunds, of the Student Finance Framework.
https://www.qub.ac.uk/Study/Feesandfinance/ and then scroll down and click the red box near the bottom of the screen called ’Student Finance Framework’.
For final confirmation that you may be due a refund please email tuitionfeerefunds@qub.ac.uk
To begin the refund request please complete the form available at Refund Request Form
Once you have completed the form, a member of the Student Finance Office staff will contact you about your refund.
Staff are required to follow a strict approval process before refunds are made so the refund process can take several weeks particularly during busy periods such as Enrolment and Registration.
Please note that refunds will be made via the original payment method (debit/credit card, Flywire, or direct bank transfer or if you used multiple methods of payments, you will receive a refund via the same combination of payment methods).
Please allow up to 21 days for your refund to be processed.
Students can only apply to the Student Support and University's Financial Assistance Fund using an ONLINE application, available by logging into their Qsis Student Account at https://qsis.qub.ac.uk/ , Once logged into Qsis the application can be found by clicking into the ‘Finances/Financial aid’ section.
Full details are available at Student Financial Support | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
We are required to assess a student’s access to funding and their living costs.
Receipts for childcare costs
Due to limited funds, second awards will not be considered in 2024-25 unless exceptional circumstances can be fully demonstrated and supported by documentary evidence .
We update the Document Management page of your QSIS application when we are processing an application.
If we require any further information, you will be notified by email and the Document Management page will reflect this.
There is often a 6-week turnaround for processing applications.
Student Financial Support awards can only be paid into a UK bank account.
Please note that we require your 8-digit account number and NOT your 16-digit card number.
Please also provide your sort code.
Queens Bursary
The entitlement of full-time NI/GB undergraduate and PGCE students to the Queen’s Bursary is assessed based on household income of less than £19,204 and payment of fees of £4,750/ £9,000/£9,250.
Please complete Section 11 of your Student Finance application form to be assessed for eligibility.
Queen’s Bursary is paid directly into the bank account you have provided to Student Loans Company in February.
Please check with your Education Authority that “Consent to share” your information has been given.
1st year student’s household income must be verified income.
Please contact your Education Authority who can confirm what information is required to verify your income.
Other
To pay your outstanding tuition fees from a previous year please telephone 02896 202020
Fee status | Study | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
In most cases fee status cannot be changed after you have registered at the University, however it may be possible in very limited circumstances.
Please note that if you are classified as International for fee purposes, and you obtain 'Indefinite Leave to Remain' after the first day of the first academic year of your programme (1 September in the year that your programme started), or if you subsequently acquire three years’ residence in the UK, your fee status will not change.
Further details of the exceptional circumstances under which fee status may change are listed on the UKCISA website .
However, if you think the University has incorrectly applied the regulations in assessing your status for tuition fee purposes, it is possible to appeal this decision.
The Student Finance Framework has been developed by the University to provide a consolidated guide on all matters which have an impact on tuition fees and associated charges.
The Framework also includes a Fee Appeals Process.
The Student Finance Framework and full details of the Fee Appeals Process (contained within Section 9 of the Framework document) including information on the Grounds for an Appeal are available here .
Appeals should be submitted to the office of the Director of Finance in the first instance ( finance.dept@qub.ac.uk )
To see how Queen’s compare to other universities in terms of key costs, please visit Cost of living | About | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
Please email studentfinance@qub.ac.uk
The University does not permit payment directly to their bank account for tuition fees.
Payment made in this way will be returned directly to the originating bank.
This can take from 8-12 weeks and may be subject to an administration charge

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Feesandfinance/UsefulLinks:
Student Finance NI - http://www.studentfinanceni.co.uk/
Student Loans Company - http://www.slc.co.uk/

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/Feesandfinance/applicants:
Deposits and Payments in advance
Applicants who are required to pay a deposit as a formal condition of their offer, or in advance of receiving a CAS, should pay by Flywire as indicated below.
Please note we DO NOT accept payments in cash for Tuition Fees.
Information on what courses international students must pay deposits for for 2025-26 is available at the link below
Payment of deposits | International | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
The Queen’s International Deposit Refund Policy applies.
Find out more about Queen's International Deposit Refund Policy .
Details on the Early Confirmation Award are available at the link below
Early Confirmation Award 2025/26 - Undergraduate | Funding and Scholarships | Queen's University Belfast (qub.ac.uk)
Applicants to the University can only pay their deposit or make payments in advance of the academic year via the Flywire Portal below
Flywire provides a simple and cost-effective payment method.
This payment method allows international and home students to pay in advance in their local currency.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/Study/funding-scholarships:
This is not an exhaustive list of scholarships and funding opportunities.
Any
Full Time
International
NI
Full Time, Part Time
EU, GB, International, NI, ROI
GB, NI, ROI
N/a
EU, International
EU, GB, NI, ROI
GB

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/International/International-students/International-tuition-fees/Paymentofdeposits:
For September 2025 entry, the following postgraduate taught programmes will require payment of a deposit to secure a place on the course.
If your offer is conditional upon payment of a deposit, this must be paid by the date stipulated in your offer letter from the Admissions and Access Service.
If you do not pay the deposit by the stated date, your application will be withdrawn.
Please refer to the Deposit Payment Letter which will accompany your offer letter.
The deposit amount should be paid online by Flywire , and you should follow the instructions at the following page to make your payment: Pay Deposit by Flywire .
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS)
MA Global Security and Borders
MSc Accounting, Finance and Analytics MSc Actuarial Science MSc Business Analytics MBA MBA (with Internship) MSc Finance MSc Financial Analytics MSc Human Resource Management MSc International Business MSc Management MSc Marketing MSc Financial Risk Management
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS)
All MSc/taught courses require a deposit payment
Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences (MHLS)
MSc/Postgraduate Diploma in Ecological Management Conservation Biology MSc Advanced Food Safety MSc Animal Behaviour and Welfare MSc Leadership for Sustainable Development MSc Leadership for Sustainable Rural Development MSc Molecular Biology and Biotechnology MSc Parasitology and Pathogen Biology
MSc Bioinformatics and Computational Genomics MSc(Res) Cancer Medicine MSc Clinical Anatomy MSc Experimental Medicine MPH Public Health MPHGH Global Health MSc Industrial Pharmaceutics
If you have met all the course entry requirements and you have received an unconditional offer of a place to study on a postgraduate taught degree, you should note that we require applicants to pay a minimum total deposit* of between £2,500 and £6,000 towards their tuition fees, before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for visa/immigration purposes can be issued.
Please ensure that you have provided all the necessary documentation.
* Applicants for postgraduate taught programmes offered by the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, and some courses in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences and the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences will be required to pay a deposit of £1000) to secure a place on the course , and this will be included as a formal condition of your offer - please see section above.
The course deposit must be paid by the date specified in the offer letter, otherwise the application will be withdrawn.
After you pay a deposit towards your fees, you will be issued with a receipt which you should present the receipt with your documents when you apply for your student entry visa to the UK.
This information will also be included in your CAS Statement – see ‘ Studying at Queen’s: Study Visa Options ’.
Voluntary Tuition Fee Deposits for Postgraduate Research Courses
If you have met all the course entry requirements and you have received an unconditional offer of a place to study on a postgraduate research degree, you should note that we provide a facility for applicants to pay a voluntary deposit towards their tuition fees.
If you pay a deposit towards your fees, you should present the receipt with your documents when you apply for your student entry visa to the UK.
This information will also be included in your CAS Statement – see leaflet ‘ Studying at Queen’s: Study Visa Options ’ included with your offer letter.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/Courses:
The Autumn 2025 / New Year 2026 programme will be live from Tuesday 12 August
Please email WAVE Trauma Centre for more information at trauma.education@wavetrauma.org
Beat the Blank Page
Creative Writing in Genre Fiction
How to Write for Profit and Pleasure
Life Writing: What is My Story?
Starting to Write
Tell Your Story: Writing and Publishing Life Writing/Memoir
Writing Short Stories
Ekphrasis: Poetry Inspired by Art
We’re Not Just Pottering Around: Arts, Crafts and “Women’s Work"
Basic and Creative Photography
Creative Photography
Photoshop for the Beginner
Boost Your Reading Brain
Critical Thinking
Teaching English to Migrants, Refugees and Asylum Seekers
The Intercultural School: Working with Newcomer and Traveller Pupils in Schools:  Primary Schools, Part 1
The Intercultural School: Working with Newcomer Pupils and Traveller Students in Schools:  Post Primary Schools, Part 1
The Intercultural School: Working with Newcomer Pupils in Schools: Primary Schools, Part 2
The Intercultural School: Working with Newcomer Pupils in Schools: Post Primary Schools, Part 2
Understanding Refugee and Asylum Systems - a Beginner's Workshop
Understanding UK Asylum systems: An Advanced Workshop
Affecting Ecological and Environmental Change
Easy Bird Watching for Beginners
How Plants Work
Native Trees: Their Identification and Place in Society
Rewilding: Breathing New Life into Conservation
The CAPNI Introduction to the Practice of Archaeology in Ireland.
An illustrated Lecture Series
Woodland: A Hidden Wealth of Wildlife
Practical First Aid
A Deadly Rivalry: A History of Franco-German Conflict and Eventual Partnership
A History of Modern Britain, Part 8: Early Victorian Britain, 1837-1857
A History of the USA, Part 7: The Progressive Era, 1900-1920
Belfast's Slavery Past, 1613-1866
Big House” in Ireland – North and South
Builders of West Belfast, Part 1: A Walking Tour
Builders of Central Belfast: A Walking Tour
Call the Midwife!
A Brief History of Pregnancy and Childbirth
Crowns, Coups and Courage: The Tudor Queens of England
“Gott Strafe England”
History of India 1: The Indus Valley to the Moghul Empire
Introduction to the Archaeology of Greece
Israel/Palestine and The Middle East
Love in the Time of Jane Austen
Napoleon
Plagues and Pox: Medicine and Society in Early Modern Britain and Ireland
Richard Nixon: A Life in Politics
Russia-Ukrainian Conflict in Context
Technowar
Ten Radical Belfast Women
The Fight for the Falklands
The Medieval Church
The Norman Invasion of Ireland
The Second World War, Year by Year - 1941: Annihilation
The Social History of Belfast and its residents, 1798 to 1914
The Tories: The Conservative Party in the Twentieth Century
Thomas Becket: Turbulent Priest
Ulster in the Nineteenth Century
French Beginners’ (10 weeks)
French: False Beginners’/Upper Beginners’
French: Lower Intermediate (10 weeks)
French: Lower Intermediate/Intermediate
French Conversation Club (Intermediate),
French: Conversation Club, Intermediate to Advanced
French: Upper Intermediate
French: Perfect Grammar,
French: Perfect Pronunciation
French: The French Club (monthly)
German: Beginners'
German: Lower Intermediate
German: Intermediate
German: Language Club, Intermediate
German: Language Club, Advanced
Classical Greek: Language Club
Irish: Beginners'
Irish: Advanced Irish Conversation
Italian: Refresher Course for Post-Beginners
Italian: Beginners'
Italian: Lower Intermediate
Italian: Fables to Rewrite, Lower Intermediate/Intermediate/Upper Intermediate
Italian: Five Lesser-Known Venetian Islands, Lower Intermediate/Intermediate/Upper Intermediate
Italian: Vocabulary Accelerator
Italian: Intermediate
Italian: Upper Intermediate
Italian: Language Club
Spanish: Beginners'
Spanish: Lower Intermediate
Spanish: A Taste of Spain, Intermediate
Spanish: Intermediate
Spanish: Upper Intermediate
Spanish: Upper Intermediate Conversation
Spanish: Grammar Clinic
A Brief History of the Law: The Interesting Bits
There are no courses in this category in the 2025/2026 programme.
Contemporary American Novel
Donne and Herbert - Poet Priests
Forrest Reid: 'The Proust of Ormiston Crescent"
Inside the Walls: Big Houses Literature
The Blackbird Bookclub
The Golden Age of Russian Literature
World Literature: Global Voices
Writing Women: A Journey through Contemporary Women's Fiction
Playing Shakespeare: The Merchant of Venice
Playing Shakespeare: Troilus and Cressida
Camille Saint-Saens, The Man who Composed ‘The Carnival of the Animals’
Mornings with Papa Haydn
Basic Psychology: Theory, Research and Application
Compassionate Listening
Creative Thinking Skills
Daoyin: Chinese Health Exercises
Developing Resilience through the Arts
Developmental Psychology: From Infancy to Adolescence
Making Sense of Healthy Eating: A New Paradigm
Manifesting: Science or Wishful Thinking?
Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction
Understanding the Stockmarket : An Introduction
There are no courses in this category in the 2025 / 2026 programme.
Our Place in the Universe
Caravaggio: Brushes with the Law
Leonardo da Vinci: Renaissance Man
Holywood: Israel/Palestine and the Middle East
Holywood:  Big House, Wee House in Irish Literature

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/GeneralInformation:
You can enrol online for all of our courses.
A secure online enrolment form is available.
Payment by credit or debit card is included as part of the enrolment process.
By post
Students should complete the enrolment form in the centre of the brochure and can pay by cheque.
If students are enrolling by post for more than one course then separate enrolment forms and cheques are needed for each course.
If you enrol by a receipt will be sent out to you in the post.
If you have enrolled online, a confirmation of enrolment will be sent to your email address.
The Confirmation of Enrolment is your only acknowledgement of enrolment.
If you enrol by telephone or post and have not received your Confirmation of Enrolment within ten days then please let us know.
There is no upper age limit, however the minimum age for students attending these adult learning programmes is 18, unless otherwise stated.
The information about each course gives details of the fee that must be paid.
For many courses, a concessionary fee is also given.
The concession is available for those who are in receipt of State Benefits (including pensions), or are full-time students, or are members of University staff holding a valid staff card.
(Please note that concessions cannot be claimed retrospectively.)
Unfortunately, we are unable to run courses that are under-subscribed so all our courses are offered subject to a certain minimum enrolment (usually 12 students).
Occasionally we are forced to cancel a course.
If this happens we shall let you know as soon as we can and refund your enrolment fee.
Early Bird - We make the decision on whether or not to run a course seven days before the course start date based on whether we have reached the minimum number of enrolments.
So please help us to help you!
If we receive your booking at least seven days in advance of the course start date you will help us to ensure that courses are not cancelled.
Be an early bird and enrol well in advance!
This year we will have a very strict deadline for enrolment of one week before the class is due to start.
It is with regret that once the class is closed we will not be able to take any further enrolments.
When a class is cancelled, it will no longer appear in the online enrolment site.
We regret that fees cannot be refunded except when a course does not run or if your application is rejected because the course is full.
The University is unable to refund fees when, for whatever reason, the student fails to attend.
The University reserves the right to substitute tutors teaching certain classes if necessary.
The University, via the Open Learning Programme Co-ordinator, reserves the right to exclude any student from its Open Learning courses for behaviour which: (1) is abusive or threatening to other course participants or University staff and/or (2) disrupts the learning of other participants and/or (3) damages or misuses University equipment or property.
We welcome applications from people with disabilities and we will do our best to ensure that your individual requirements are met so you can get the most from your course.
In order for the University to address your support needs and in order to comply with the University's Health and Safety Regulations, all students who may require assistance will need to enrol at least 3 weeks before the start of the course.
Students will need to complete a short questionnaire before they enrol and return that to the Open Learning Office.
You can complete the form online online (Support Needs Form) or it can be downloaded and printed Download Support Needs Form .
Any student who would like further information should contact the Disability Office, Dr Cathal McManus openlearning@qub.ac.uk
The bursary is established in the memory of Bridget Sarah Hurson, late mother of Professor Tess Magines and Ms Edna Gibson.
Bursaries, up to the value of £200 each, will be awarded this academic year to students facing financial hardship who wish to enrol in any Open Learning course.
Individual applicants should make a written submission of no more than 300 words detailing how the award would enable them to participate in an Open Learning Programme.
The closing date of applications is Friday 5 September 2025 .
The award will be made in two instalments.
A sum equal to the amount of the fees payable will be paid at the beginning of the course; the balance will be paid at the end of the course and will be dependent on the recipient attending 70% of classes.
Applications should be sent to the Open Learning Office, School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work, Queen’s University, 20 College Green, Belfast BT7 1LN or by email: openlearning.education@qub.ac.uk and will be considered by a panel drawn from the School and the family.
We regret that there is no parking within the University precinct for students attending day-time classes.
For evening classes, limited parking is available from 4.00 pm on the main site.
You can qualify for a library card if you enrol for a 20-week course or 2 x 10-week courses (one in the Autumn and one in the New Year) by the end of October.
Please contact the office on 028 9097 3323 to request a library card.
The Open Learning Programme aims to ensure that all students get the most out of their experiences with the University.
We have sought, over many years, to develop a model of education that proves learning can be a hugely rewarding and enjoyable experience.
As part of this we have always sought to emphasise the role played by assessments in the learning process and to encourage students to take on the added challenge of completing the assignments set in each course.
It is important to note that this is not the ‘Pass’ and ‘Fail’ exercise many of us think of when we hear the word assessment.
Rather, the completion of an Open Learning assignment is an important part of your overall learning experience.
The feedback provided by tutors should be seen, not as a judgement of ability, but rather as a very individual record of progress made to date.
Importantly, this feedback will also offer advice as to how you can further improve your work and continue on your journey of personal development.
As a university based and accredited programme we are guided by the marking criteria used across the institution.
This criteria assesses students’ work based on three key aspects:
The grades/marks awarded will therefore be based on how each of these are applied within an assignment.
It is important that as you quote or refer to other works in support of an argument, that each one is carefully referenced.
It should normally be presented at either the bottom of the page or at the end of the essay and in the following format: Barrell, J., The Dark Side of the Landscape, (Cambridge 1980) p.
16

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/Venues:
The Venues for the Autumn 2025 programme will be listed the afternoon before the classes are due to start.
The Autumn 2025 / New Year 2026 programme will be open for enrolment from mid-August.
Top of Page
Map of university
20 College Green - if coming up Botanic Avenue in direction of University - pass Dukes hotel (junction with University Street).
The next street is the left is College Green - a row of houses on one side and the University Theological College on the other.
Number 20 has a red door.
Peter Froggatt Centre - large brick building in quad of university - main site
Main Site Tower - (entrance Peter Froggatt Centre, Main Site.
Go to floor 1st, 2nd or 3rd - turn right, go to end of corridor, through fire doors with sign above door which says entrance to Main Site Tower)
Newark Room and 0G/049, Lanyon Building - Turn right at the war memorial in direction of Whitla Hall, turn left following the Lanyon building to the 2 nd staircase, enter and 0G/049 is first classroom to the left and Newark Room is first classroom on right.
0G/074, Lanyon Building - Go through the main entrance of the university (Lanyon building) through black and white tiled hall way and exit door to left out to the quad – go to the end of the corridor (past the Welcome Centre) and turn right and enter the glass doors straight ahead.
6 College Park - go through QUB car park at top of Botanic Avenue.
Walk towards library and Botanic Gardens, Just before library with Hope Cafe on corner take the pedestrian walkway to left and walk c 100 yards and 6 College Park is red brick building on left (there is sign for School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work.
Ashby Building - this tall white building is on the Stranmillis Road, at the corner of Chlorine Gardens
Elmwood Building - from University Road go down Elmwood Avenue  and behind Students' Union (1 Elmwood) there is an entrance and the Elmwood building is to the left

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/LanguageLevels:
Students can use and understand simple phrases and sentences on familiar topics
Students can deal with most situations likely to arise whilst travelling and can describe experiences, events, plans and hopes.
Students have survival skills for everyday needs.
Students who have a very good knowledge of the language at an intermediate level
Students have lived in the country.
Students can follow/give a talk on a familiar topic or keep up a conversation on a fairly wide range of topics.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/ProposeaCourse:
The next call for course proposals will be for our Spring 2026 programme.
The proposal form will be live in mid October 2025.
We offer a wide range of courses including:  Creative Writing; Cultural Studies; Digital Photography; Education and Training; Environment and Archaeology; History and Politics; Languages; Law; Leisure Skills; Literature; Media Studies and Drama; Music; Personal Development and Communications; Personal Finance; Religion; Science.
The information in the following documents may help you to complete the Course Proposal Form.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/Contacts:
Open Learning Office, School of Social Sciences, Education and Social Work, Queen’s University, 20 College Green, Belfast BT7 1LN
Tel.: 028 9097 3323 Email: openlearning.education@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/sites/open-learning/Downloads:
If you would like a printed copy please email us with your full name and address
If you would like a PDF of the current brochure please click on the link below.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/postgraduate-research:
For guidance on how to complete your application for postgraduate research, follow our Steps to Apply .
Below you can use our programme finder to search the full list of research areas available at Queen's.
If you require any further support, please contact our Faculty Hubs: Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences – askAHSS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences – askEPS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences – askMHLS@qub.ac.uk Find out more about our faculty hubs.
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences – askAHSS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences – askEPS@qub.ac.uk Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences – askMHLS@qub.ac.uk Find out more about our faculty hubs.
Find out more about our faculty hubs.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/CharityLawandGovernance.html:
The charity sector in Northern Ireland is facing many challenges as we deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 Pandemic.
In Northern Ireland we have a large and vibrant charity sector ranging from small groups meeting local needs with few resources to charities who are household names, operating with budgets of millions.
There are many legal and governance issues which are fundamental to the effective operation and success of a charity.
The regulatory landscape for charities is quickly changing in this jurisdiction.
In this course we will be dealing with many of these regulatory and operational matters.
The course will appeal to solicitors and barristers in practice who advise charitable organisations.
It will also appeal to those working in the charity sector or those who hold positions on boards of organisations or in a management capacity.
We invite legal professionals and individuals involved with the charity sector to apply.
We will cover the following topics:
4 weeks, 6-8pm
Please register your expression of interest to join the course by e-mailing iplscpd@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/ForensicMedicineAndLegalProcess.html:
Queen’s has developed a course designed to introduce relevant professionals including doctors, dentists, forensic nurses and lawyers to forensic medicine and the legal aspects of medical practice.
This includes the role of the General Medical Council in the regulation of doctors as well as explain the role of the forensic pathologist in the investigation of sudden, unexpected and suspicious deaths and how forensic science can assist in the investigation of crime.
The course is wide ranging, providing participants with the opportunity to gain knowledge and understanding as to how injuries are interpreted, cases are prepared for court and the court process as well as a special focus on the role of the coroner and the external witness.
The Forensic Medicine and Legal Process course will provide an inter-disciplinary context to help professional practitioners develop their generic knowledge, skills and understanding of the interaction between the medical and legal professions in relation to forensic medicine.
The course will include consideration of non-accidental injury in infants and young children and forensic aspects of sexual offences.
It will consider drugs and alcohol; their misuse and how these substances are detected and quantified.
It will also consider various methods by which deceased persons can be identified, both single cases and mass disasters including DNA, dental records and other methods.
The course will include a number of formal lectures and group discussion sessions.
There will also be an opportunity for participants to practice their courtroom skills by participating in a mock courtroom presentation and be subject to cross examination.
*See Selection Criteria for full requirements
Upon completion of the course the practitioner will successfully be able to:
Speaker
Honorary Professor of Forensic Medicine and retired State Pathologist in Northern Ireland with international reputation, Professor Jack Crane joined the Northern Ireland State Pathologists department in 1980 as a registrar, later becoming a consultant and then appointed the department head in January 1990.
Professor Crane is highly regarded for his valuable contribution during his time as State Pathologist, having developed a forensic pathology service in Northern Ireland regarded with ‘International Renown’.
Professor Crane retired after 24 years having held the position during some of the worst violence of the troubles and will be sharing his knowledge and expertise on Forensic Medicine with participants of the course.
Professor Barbara Jemphrey a qualified solicitor and Director of the Institute of Professional Legal Studies.
Diane Nixon was called to the Bar of England and Wales in 1997.
She practised full-time as a barrister until she returned to Northern Ireland in 2008 when she combined teaching with professional practice at the Bar.
She was called to the Bar of Northern Ireland in 2008.
Contact Claire Armstrong

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/CriminalLaw.html:
The Recommendations of the Gillen Review require advocates in criminal proceedings to act appropriately when dealing with vulnerability.
Difficulties arise first from the failure to recognise vulnerability and, secondly, to understand the barriers to communication caused by vulnerability ranging from age, background to physical or mental health or other developmental issues.
Thirdly, advocates need to comply with the Protocols for Vulnerable Witnesses and Defendants.
This short course is designed to ensure that those working in the criminal justice system gain an understanding of vulnerability and the treatment of vulnerable persons, whether witness or defendant, when questioning them.
Attendees will benefit from a number of short lectures and participate in workshops which will deepen their understanding and enhance their skills, thus ensuring best practice when dealing with the vulnerable in a criminal setting.
The course will appeal to solicitors and barristers in practice who work in the criminal courts and who wish to understand how to achieve best practice when dealing with cases which involve vulnerable witnesses and/or defendants.
WE WILL COVER THE FOLLOWING TOPICS:
6 weeks, 6-8pm
If you have any queries in relation to this course or would like to register your interest please e-mail iplscpd@qub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/EmploymentLaw.html:
This is a time of unprecedented change and growing complexity in the area of employment law.
Understanding these developments is of critical importance to those seeking to negotiate a surefooted pathway through the workplace environment.
IPLS is delighted to bring together a team of leading employment law experts, including two employment judges, to deliver a course which will provide a thorough grounding in the key components and latest developments in this highly specialised area of law.
DATES TO BE CONFIRMED FOR 2026 - Please register your interest in the course by emailing: iplscpd@qub.ac.uk
The course is open to those in both the public and private sectors: legal practitioners, employers, company directors, regulatory bodies, and HR professionals.
In this course we will cover the following topics:
Please register your expression of interest to join the course by emailing iplscpd@qub.ac.uk
Email Claire Armstrong

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/HousingLawPolicy.html:
Delivered by the Institute of Professional Legal Studies in conjunction with Housing Rights, this course offers an introduction to housing law and policy in Northern Ireland.
It will cover aspects of housing law in the province such as social housing, the private rented sector and home ownership.
The course is aimed at solicitors and barristers who practice in housing law, professionals working in the housing sector, and those with an interest in policy and research in the housing sector.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/WillPreparation.html:
Time spent by Solicitors and Barristers attending lectures and workshops in person or completing these via e-learning as part of this course can be claimed towards your annual CPD requirement.
Attendance at this course will cover 15 hours of group study CPD.
Each day the sessions will be from 10.00am - 1.00pm with refreshments available from 9.30am.
The course is aimed primarily at solicitors.
It will also be of benefit to barristers with a practice in Chancery or Probate and any professional who works in the administration of estates.
Barrister at Law TEP
Sheena Grattan TEP is a Practice Fellow in the School of Law, Queen’s University Belfast.
She also has over 30 years’ experience of succession law as a solicitor, and latterly 24 years as a Chancery Barrister at the Northern Ireland Bar.
She is also a former Senior Lecturer in the School of Law at Queen’s.
In both her former Bar career and research work she specialises in all aspects of succession law and trusts and is the author of various books, texts and articles.
She is a founding member of the Northern Ireland Branch of the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners (STEP), she was its chair 2018 to 2022, and continues to contribute as a committee member.
She is on the editorial panel of both Folio and the Journal of Elder Law and Capacity, and has been the examiner of both legal components of the STEP NI Diploma.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/SportsLawCourse.html:
Solicitors and barristers attending the course will be able to claim continuing professional development hours.
Attendance at this course will cover 10 hours of group study CPD.
The course will address many of the major themes affecting sport in this ever-changing global environment.
It shall also consider the business of sport with a commercial focus on brands/sponsors, media companies, broadcasters, and marketing agencies.
WEEK 1 - Disputes in Sport
WEEK 2 - Governance in Sport
WEEK 3 - Stakeholder Welfare in Sport
WEEK 4 - Safeguarding
WEEK 5 - Modern-day Athletes, Employees and Volunteers

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/MediationCourse.html:
Attendance at this course will deliver 40 CPD hours.
This course is designed for legal professionals and will equip them to understand the mediation process, to advise their clients, and to offer services as a mediator.
The course will be provided by the LSMS and will be delivered by expert mediators and mediator trainers.
In addition to mediation veteran Brian Speers (who has lectured and mediated internationally as well as locally), commercial dispute mediator Gareth Jones and experienced trainer Professor Barbara Jemphrey, MBE will lead the training faculty.
Distinguished guest contributors will also participate - drawn from the Judiciary, the Bar and family law practitioners.
The course is approved by the Law Society as eligible training to satisfy requirements of the LSMS.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/DeliveringClinicalTrialsfromProtocoltoPatientClosingDate171125.html:
This short course will introduce participants from a broad range of disciplines to the key considerations for planning and delivering clinical trials.
Clinical trials bring novel therapies to patients, resulting in improved health outcomes.
This is exemplified by the response to the COVID-19 pandemic where randomised trials of novel therapies, and later vaccines, led to a substantial reduction in virus associated mortality.
Queen’s University Belfast has a world-renowned reputation for excellence in clinical trials, and iREACH Health will build upon this by delivering an innovative and globally competitive clinical research ecosystem here in Northern Ireland.
Up to 18 fully-funded places are available via the Department for the Economy Skill Up Fund.
Application Deadline: 4:00pm on Monday 17 November 2025
This course is intended to be practical, focusing on the information and skills needed to take a study protocol and deliver the trial safely and effectively to participants.
You will gain understanding of the regulatory processes involved and how to ensure participant safety and integrity of the trial is upheld.
Practical workshops will enable students to interact with leading experts in clinical trial delivery and to learn essential skills required for successful trial protocol delivery.
Importantly, although the emphasis here is on clinical trials, the principles are the same for other types of research, for example observational studies and qualitative research.
We hope that you will find the course relevant to your role in clinical trial delivery, and will give you the tools you need to be confident and competent in getting research to patients and participants.
Tuition fees and other charges are set by the University and are subject to change.
Applicants should have an Honours degree , or equivalent in a biological sciences or healthcare- related subject.
If you do not have a degree or equivalent but have at least 3 years' experience in a healthcare setting you can still be considered (see Selection Criteria for full Entry Requirements).
Assessment will be comprised of:
The programme content will be delivered over four full days in the Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine at Queen’s University Belfast..
Day 1 - Thursday, 15 January 2026
Day 2 - Friday, 30 January 2026
Day 3 - Thursday, 19 February 2026
Day 4 - Thursday, 5 March 2026
Applicants should have at least one of the following:
Please note that if a candidate does not have the academic qualifications stated in criterion 1, but can prove they have the relevant experience (criteria 2 or 3), their application will still be considered.
A Recognised Experience of Learning (RPEL) form will be made available to them to complete in addition to the online application.
In this instance, individuals will be contacted directly.
If RPEL is required, please ensure you add all information to your application.
The more information provided, the more helpful it is for the admissions process.
To be eligible for a fully funded place under this programme, applicants must meet each of the following criteria:
We require applicants to provide proof of eligibility of their right to work.
This evidence should be submitted via the Queen’s Application portal .
Please refer to the following website for acceptable evidence: https://www.gov.uk/prove-right-to-work
Due to high demand you are advised to apply as early as possible.
Application for admission is made via Queen's Application Portal and applicants should follow the step-by-step instructions on how to apply .
As part of the application process you are required to complete and upload supplementary information in support of your application which you will be able to access once you begin the application process in the Queen's Application Portal.
When applying for this short course via Queen's Application Portal you should choose the options listed below:
Applicants should note:
If you should have any issues in completing this online application, you should refer to the Admissions and Access Service ( apply@qub.ac.uk )
Application Deadline: 4:00pm on Monday, 17 November 2025

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/SocialModelforHthWbeinginPrimaryCommCareClosingdate101125.html:
This short course will provide students with a knowledge of the Social Model of Health, as a driver for change in health and social care including the introduction of community-based services such as Social Prescribing.
Students will learn about community-based solutions for health and wellbeing and the reduction of health inequalities.
Students will learn how to evaluate health services, and will develop skills in low-intensity interventions, including Brief Motivational Interviewing.
Fully-funded places are available entry via the Department for the Economy Skill Up Programme.
Self-funded places are also available.
Application Deadline: Monday, 10 November 2025
This short course, developed in collaboration with Connected Community Care and the School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences at Queen’s University Belfast can be taken as a stand-alone module (20 CATS) or combined with other short courses to obtain a Certificate in Professional development for Primary Health Care (60 CATS) .
Tuition fees and other charges are set by the University and are subject to change
To be eligible for this programme, applicants must work in a primary or community care setting and have a primary degree or equivalent (read Selection Criteria for full requirements and to see the DfE eligibility requirements).
This short course is designed for those who want to:
This short course is supported by online learning resources and exercises to enable participants to reflect upon and review the implications of their learning for practice.
8 sessions will be delivered at 2-5pm on Thursdays between 15 th January and 7 th May 2026.
All sessions will be available via MS Teams, though 2 sessions will also be held in person.
Please note that while these dates will always be on a Thursday, the exact dates are subject to change in exceptional circumstances.
This evidence should be submitted via the Queen’s Application portal.
We are also able to consider self-funded or employer-funded applicants.
Please indicate in your application if you wish to be considered as a self-funded or employer funded applicant.
As part of the application process you are required to complete and upload supplementary information in support of your application which you will be able to access once you begin the application process in the Queen's Application Portal .
Application Deadline: 4:00pm on Monday, 10 November 2025

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/StrategicManagementLeadershipinPrimaryCareClosingDate22825.html:
The Strategic Management and Leadership Module is designed to equip primary care practitioners with advanced leadership and management skills.
Fully-funded places are available from the Department for the Economy Skill Up programme.
Application Deadline: 4:00pm on Friday 22 August 2025
The module is divided into two units: Strategic Leadership and Strategic Management Project .
Participants will not only build on their strategic management and leadership capabilities but also focus on translating and implementing organisational strategies into effective operational performance.
This module prepares participants to become future leaders in the healthcare sector and also enables them to plan, lead, and execute a strategic project directly connected to their professional role.
Additionally, this module is accredited through the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), and graduates will receive a CMI Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and Leadership Practice.
To be eligible for this programme, applicants must work in a primary care setting and have a primary degree or equivalent (read Selection Criteria for full requirements and to see the DfE eligibility requirements).
Each unit is supported with online learning resources, practical guides, and reflective exercises, enabling participants to build on their learning and apply it, both within their own context and to complete the assessment.
Each unit consists of 5-6 workshops delivered in person by experienced trainers.
An MS Teams link will be provided for those unable to attend in person.
Strategic Leadership Unit
Strategic Management Project Unit
This course will run subject to a minimum of 10 students successfully applying.
Due to high demand, you are advised to apply as early as possible.
Please indicate in your application if you wish to be considered as a self-funded or employer-funded applicant.

New sentences found on https://qub.ac.uk/home/courses/short-courses/courses/SteppinguptoLShipManagementinGeneralPracticeClosingDate22925.html:
This module empowers leaders to explore and enhance their personal and professional growth.
By reflecting on the synergy between skillset and mindset, leaders will develop strategic leadership capabilities and create impactful development plans.
Fully funded places are available via the Department for the Economy Skill Up Fund.
Application Deadline: 4:00pm on Monday, 22 September 2025
The School of Medicine, Dentistry & Biomedical Sciences and the Thomas J.
Moran Graduate School, in collaboration with the Eastern Federation Support Unit, are delighted to offer a personal and professional development programme tailored for General Practitioners in Primary Care.
This programme is designed for GPs who aspire to take on greater leadership roles within their practice.
Participants will gain valuable insights into the personal, interpersonal, and professional skills necessary to effectively manage and lead a practice.
Additionally, the programme will guide GPs in creating a Personal Development Plan to further enhance these competencies.
The programme is also accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and successful participants will achieve a Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 7 Award in Strategic Management and Leadership Practice alongside obtaining 20 University CAT points.
Eligible applicants must be a current GP Partner / Salaried GP and with (or about to take on) management responsibilities in the practice.
Online Learning Resources: Each unit is supported with online learning resources, practical guides, and reflective exercises, to enable participants to build on their learning and apply it within their own context and complete the assessment.
Learning outcomes
The module assessment consists of a 3-part written report which includes reflective accounts and a Personal/Professional Development Plan.
In addition to obtaining a CMI Level 7 Award and 20 University CATS points, this short course can be combined with other short courses to obtain a Certificate in Professional Development for Primary Health Care (60 CATS).
This year-long short course features 11 half-day workshops, held in-person at either the Graduate School or the GP Eastern Federation Office.
Each participant will also receive one to one online coaching and is assigned a mentor from within the sector.
Please refer Additional Information: Course Content for further information related teaching dates and course content.
To be eligible for this programme, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Due to high demand, you are advised to apply as early as possible.