# Site: https://www.rau.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 475
# --------

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk:
❝The environment at the RAU is truly special.
The small size of the campus and university fosters a close-knit and unique community.❞
Will Matthews Agriculture Graduate
We have been at the forefront of agricultural education and a key contributor to the land-based sector for 180 years.
We pride ourselves in combining knowledge and industry connections with an innovative, forward-thinking approach.
Our open days and events are the perfect opportunity for you to visit the University and get a real feel for what life as a student is really like
Do you have questions about the RAU?
We are happy to answer any queries you might have about studying and living in Cirencester.
Take a look at our prospectus online or order a printed copy.
Royal Agricultural University Cirencester Gloucestershire GL7 6JS United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1285 652531
© Royal Agricultural University Limited Company Registered in England No.
99168
Royal Agricultural University Enterprises Ltd.
Registered in England No.
2752048

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses:
Get in touch with us if you have any questions by completing our online enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate:
If you want a degree that combines academic and workplace skills, or if you prefer a shorter course, you may like to consider our Foundation degrees (FdSc).
You can read more about Foundation degrees here.
Click here for helpful information

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-:
Book your place now for your opportunity to visit the University and get a real feel for what life as a student is really like.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/foundation-degrees:
These courses are a qualification in their own right.
They are ideal if you aren’t sure if you want to commit to taking a full degree, or if you don’t have the traditional entry requirements for a Bachelor’s degree.
Foundation degrees are designed for those who wish to develop their skills in the workplace and grow their academic abilities at the same time.
They are designed to be practical with an emphasis on ‘hands-on’ experience.
Once you complete your Foundation degree, you can either choose to continue onto a one-year Top-up course to gain a full Bachelor’s degree or you can go straight out to work.
See our FdSc courses below.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas:
We offer a wide range of courses for undergraduates and postgraduates from farm management, food, real estate, and rural land management, to business, environment, equine science, and cultural heritage.
All our courses seek to ensure sustainable use of the land, safeguard the environment, protect the welfare of animals, and improve the wellbeing of communities that rely upon it,

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/business:
To achieve this we have developed a progressive and connected community of practice in management, business and entrepreneurial education that delivers thought leadership for the long term future of our land, the rural economy and its supply chains.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/cultural-heritage:
In 2021 the University expanded into the exploration, understanding and management of the historic environment – a perfect complement to our established programmes with an emphasis on sustainable landscapes, towns, cities and businesses.
Join us at the Cultural Heritage Institute in Swindon and start building an exciting future.
We offer high level CPD and research opportunities leading to masters by research and doctorate of philosophy.
These courses will enable you to gain professional experience, build a portfolio of knowledge and skills, and ultimately enhance your career.
Our master's programmes have been developed in partnership with practitioners from across cultural heritage.
Our teaching team brings together experienced university lecturers and professionals from archaeological and heritage practice.
This includes major consultancies such as Wessex Archaeology.
Being in Swindon will certainly give you access to some amazing learning resources including Historic England, English Heritage, the National Monuments Archive, The National Trust and Steam – the museum of the Great Western Railway, which are all within a five minute walk.
We invite you to grow along with us.
It is going to be an exciting journey.
RAU Swindon is situated in a purpose converted workshop in the railway heritage quarter of Swindon This £1.35m investment provides modern and fully accessible facilities in an innovative learning space calculated to encourage collaboration and interdisciplinary studies.
Designed by award winning architects Metropolitan Workshop and with the generous support of Swindon Borough Council the project is a case study in sustainable, heritage-led, regeneration.
Centrally placed for easy access by rail (we are five minute walk from the railway station) and road you should be able to reach us easily.
For further information on RAU Swindon and our programmes please contact Dr Cassie Newland at cassie.newland@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/clearing:
There are several ways in which you can chat through your options with us:
Our Admissions team will be available during the following times:
Clearing provides an opportunity for you to explore your university options, and offers alternatives if your exam results are not what you expected.
It is open to UK, EU and international students.
From 5 July - 25 September , you can apply for a course using Clearing if you are not already holding an offer from a university or college, and the course still has places available.
You can use Clearing if:
We would love to see you at our Clearing Open afternoon on Saturday 17 August from 1pm until 4pm.
If you are not able to make the Open afternoon and wish to visit us please contact opendays@rau.ac.uk to arrange a suitable time.
A transcript of this video may be found here
RAU students share their experiences of coming to the University through Clearing.
"Love the family atmosphere you get from a small campus university - it's like you know everyone!"
Robyn Hogg, Graduate

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life:
Whether you're into rock climbing, skiing, singing or simply wish to meet like-minded students or budding entrepreneurs, you'll find what you're looking for - and more - with the RAU's network of student societies.
Explore our campus and discover what life is really like as an RAU student.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/pre-arrival-guide:
We understand that you may have many questions about arriving here and these pages should hopefully go some way to providing answers.
Please spend time in particular reading the Registration Information – completing your online self-registration before you arrive is vital to ensure there are no delays to receiving your student ID, moving into accommodation and starting your studies.
Your first few days with us should be all about enjoying settling in here, not queuing and waiting to join in.
Soon after 14 August 2025 you will receive an email from the RAU’s Registry Team, with your log-in credentials and additional details of how to complete your self-registration.
Before arriving, please log into the Student Portal and complete all the steps to self-register, especially:
Checking your ID and preparing your student ID card are manual processes.
Please keep in mind at this time of year it can take a few days to go through any last-minute submissions, so upload your details as soon as possible.
Once you've completed your self-registration your personal timetable will be available.
This will show details of your lectures, seminars and other teaching events – when and where they take place, and who is leading them.
You can find a link to your personal timetable on the Gateway home page.
If you're having issues with your timetable, please read the timetable FAQs by clicking the link .
All students participating in laboratory activities will require their own full length “Howie” Type lab coat.
These can be purchased through the following websites:
The quality of the coat needs to be of sufficient standard to protect from chemical spillage.
No student will be admitted into the laboratory activities without a lab coat for Health and Safety reasons.
Each year we offer an optional International Students' Welcome day to welcome new EU and international students.
The welcome day takes place before the start of the new academic year in September and helps international students prepare for their time with us.
The medical service for RAU students is provided by the Phoenix Surgery who can be found at 9 Chesterton Lane, Cirencester GL7 1XG.
Students are advised to register with Phoenix Surgery unless they are already registered with another local doctor.
As students, you will be able to see your ‘home’ doctor as a ‘temporary resident’ during the holidays but should remain permanently registered with Phoenix Surgery during your time at RAU.
This is important because your record will then be available should you require medical attention.
All international students are eligible for NHS treatment provided they are studying in the UK for six months or more.
Following registration, you will receive a letter confirming that you are a patient at the Phoenix Surgery.
To register please use the following link.
New patient registration (RAU student) – Phoenix Health Group .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/undergraduate-offer-information:
If you have changed your email address since your application, please can you provide updated details to admissions@rau.ac.uk so that we can communicate with you about your registration.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-offer-information:
Congratulations on your offer of a place at the Royal Agricultural University.
These pages will help guide you through the admissions process and what to do next in order to accept your offer, as well as how to prepare for your first few weeks as a student at the RAU.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/student-handbook-and-policies/handbook:
It contains the sources of help and support available to you, sporting and social opportunities, accommodation and leisure facilities and the key regulations which apply to all students.
We hope you will refer to it regularly, throughout your time at the RAU, so that you can take full advantage of all that the University has to offer.
Please note that battery powered and assisted vehicles, for example e-bikes (including pedal assisted electric bikes), e-scooters, electric skateboards etc, are not permitted (this includes: riding, storing, and charging batteries) on any RAU property.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/semester-dates:
Please note that the semester dates below relate to the general teaching and examination periods at the University.
The Royal Agricultural University is similar to the majority of other British universities and operates its academic delivery via semesters.
Programmes are taught across two semesters.
For most students, your course will be taught and assessed in each semester with an examination period towards the end of each semester.
The semester dates are shown below.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/careers-services:
Throughout a students’ course and via extra curricula enterprise and employability activities, we embed and encourage the RAU Graduate attributes, which are to:
As well as sharing the RAU Values which are;
RAU graduates are regularly recruited by some of the world’s leading organisations.
The University offers fantastic career and employment opportunities.
This can be attributed in part to the strong industry links we maintain.
Potential employers are encouraged to engage as guest speakers, hosts for trips and visits, as well as joining us for our Career Fairs and being placement providers.
This ensures that our students receive up-to-date knowledge whilst making valuable contacts with industry employers.
All our courses incorporate a placement element of varying length from 70 hours to a full year, enabling students to gain vital experience of the workplace and become familiar with all stages of the recruitment process.
An extra advantage for our graduates is the support of our alumni.
A powerful network of over 14,000 former students positioned across the globe, they are always keen to help graduates achieve career success.
A comprehensive careers advice service ensures that a consistently high number of RAU graduates go on to enjoy success in their specialist area of study, and make a significant contribution to a wide range of professions internationally.
It is never too early to start thinking about where you want your course to take you.
So make sure you speak to your personal tutor at the beginning of the year to start building your career plan.
For further information about the Careers Services available to students, please contact a member of the Careers Team.
Email: careers@rau.ac.uk .
Our Jobs Portal provides current students with a jobs board for casual, part-time, graduate, volunteering and placement opportunities.
We are constantly updating our portal, to ensure our students have access to the latest opportunities.
Available to current RAU students, please click to access through Gateway (Student Job Search).
For any queries, please contact the Careers team on careers@rau.ac.uk .
The Careers Service at the Royal Agricultural University is always keen to have contact with potential graduate and/or placement employers, and other organisations who can support our students in their employability journey.
We can help you make contact with our students, graduates, academic staff and management.
The Careers Service, Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, Gloucestershire, GL7 6JS student.jobs@rau.ac.uk .
"At Dalcour Maclaren we've had great success with RAU Graduates, some of whom have gone on to progess into more senior level positions across the business."
- Joanna Middleton, Head of Talent Acquisition, Dalcour Maclaren

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/university-life/graduation:
We are already planning for Graduation 2025 with a confirmed date as below:
Students should visit the Ede and Ravenscroft website where you can book your own free ticket and three guest tickets, as well as booking your gown, hat, and photography.
Online booking opens on Monday 14 April 2025 and will close on Friday 29 August 2025.
Please note that hiring a gown is mandatory and graduands will not be admitted to the graduation ceremony without the correct academic dress.
You do not need to know your results to book your place, so please allow plenty of time to secure and confirm your booking.
If you would like to stay on campus for your graduation there are a number of bedrooms available for a two-night stay at a special price:
To book a room please call 01285 652530 or email shortstay@rau.ac.uk .
For any other graduation queries please contact us at graduation@rau.ac.uk .
Terms and Conditions of Graduation 2025
A transcript of the 2024 Graduates' interviews can be found here .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/enterprise-and-entrepreneurship:
From practical workshops, mentoring and awards, budding entrepreneurs can benefit from the knowledge and experience of their lecturers and the strong industry links the University has carefully cultivated over the years.
“Winner of Enterprise Learning Provider of the Year, Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs Awards 2019"
Our award-winning Enterprise Programme (EP) provides an inspiring and supportive environment in which our students can share, develop and launch their ideas.
Guided by lawyers, insurers, accountants and PR & marketing professionals, students from all degree courses and years have the chance to realise their aspirations in a professional and rewarding environment.
As well as acting as a springboard for the business leaders of tomorrow, our celebrated programme has attracted the support of business leaders across the UK, enabling us to organise networking events, enterprise workshops, mentoring services and inspirational talks.
A transcript of this video can be found here .
The Royal Agricultural University (RAU) Ignite Enterprise Programme, launched in the 2024/25 academic year.
Designed in response to student feedback, this programme aims to inspire, nurture, and develop the entrepreneurial skills of our students.
Open to all RAU students, it offers flexible, tailored support to help them thrive.
Our programme features a range of events, competitions, and trips aimed at inspiring students to explore careers or start their own businesses.
Highlights include alumni panels, talks from successful business owners, and idea competitions.
Students will gain access to a blend of online learning covering essential start-up topics, along with personalised support from our dedicated Enterprise team and external business coaches.
This combination ensures students receive the guidance they need to turn their entrepreneurial ambitions into reality.
Students can take part in our Cotswold Hills wine social enterprise project, gaining hands-on experience in areas such as sales, product development, and marketing.
Participation builds valuable employability skills, including teamwork and communication.
Additionally, profits from sales are reinvested into supporting student entrepreneurs and their ventures.
Situated in the grounds of the Royal Agricultural University, since 2018 The Alliston Centre has been the home of Farm491, the RAU’s technology and innovation space focused on the future of farming and food systems, and The Growth Hub Cirencester, part of the wider Growth Hub Gloucestershire network and a business hub focused on launching, growing and scaling businesses in the Cotswolds.
Farm491 proudly supports AgriTech, AgriFood and farming entrepreneurs in the UK and internationally in converting their ideas or technological solutions into viable and successful businesses.
While The Growth Hub Cirencester provides fully funded business support, including green consultancy, and free knowledge exchange events and workshops to pre-startups, startups, sole traders and small to medium size businesses in the Cotswolds, as well as offer co-working, meeting room and office hire.
RAU students receive free membership at Farm491 and The Growth Hub Cirencester to work on their businesses.
RAU alumni free membership at Farm491 and receive 25% discount on membership and all other paid services at The Growth Hub Cirencester for 12 months after graduation.
Join the Ignite Enterprise Programme to spark your entrepreneurial journey today!
Cotswold Hills is an award-winning social enterprise project established by the Royal Agricultural University in 2016 when we took on the tenancy of a 6-acre vineyard on the outskirts of Cirencester.
The project aims to provide students with real life employability and enterprise skills and experience, as they are encouraged to get involved in all aspects of the project from vine to wine sales and new product development.
In addition, a proportion of the proceeds from Cotswold Hills wine sales goes into the University’s enterprise fund which provides grants to students wanting to start their own businesses.
Cotswold Hills producing an award-winning range of still and sparkling wines in both bottled and canned form.
You can find out more and purchase our wine via our website .
Cotswold Hills also has a strong innovation and sustainability ethos, and we encourage our students to research and apply new and emerging solutions.
Examples of this include being one of the first UK vineyards to produce a canned wine in 2018, as well as being the first UK vineyard to use eco-plastic recycled and recyclable wine bottle which helped to reduced the carbon footprint.
We have also removed the aluminium foil from our sparkling wine to reduce packaging waste.
Imogen started two businesses whist at the RAU, the Carrington Course which is a three-day residential educational course, teaching school leavers basic fundamental life skills such as cookery, finance and household and car maintenance which isn't taught in schools.
The second business is a private dog pen facility, equipped with agility equipment, training aids, benches and undercover areas set in three acres of beautiful grass and woodland where dog owners can take their dog off the lead without worrying.
The RAU has a wealth of knowledgeable and friendly experts/ resources to help entrepreneurs, whether their business is just starting out or more developed.
Never feel embarrassed by a lack of knowledge in any field of business.
If you are not overly confident with finances or marketing for example, chat to someone who is; become a sponge of knowledge!
Speak out, get advice, and don't be scared to question your thoughts/ decisions because of other people's opinions.
“A large part of my decision to come to the RAU was based on the exceptional support for enterprise and entrepreneurship.
I'm incredibly grateful to have studied at the RAU, and to be offered such valuable opportunities such as the Grand Idea Competition”
Imogen Burgoyne, Grand Idea Winner 2022

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-stories:
Dhaval Bhoi
BSc (Hons) Agriculture
Lolly Tunnicliffe
BSc (Hons) Environment and Sustainability
Lauren Day
BSc (Hons) Bloodstock and Equine Performance Management
Babatunde Oseni
BSc (Hons) Agri-Food Business Management
Oliver O'Brien
BSc (Hons) Rural Land Management
Etai Phiri
BSc (Hons) Agricultural Food Business Management
David Ridley
BSc Real Estate
Emily Dinning
BSc International Equine and Agricultural Business Management

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international:
At the Royal Agricultural University (RAU), we are proud of our global outlook and commitment to addressing the most pressing environmental and agricultural challenges of our time.
Guided by RAU’s core strategies—Reach, Quality, and Sustainability—and rooted in our founding motto, Avorum Cultus Pecorumque (‘Caring for the Fields and the Beasts’), our international activities support a future where sustainable land management, climate resilience, and food security are not just goals, but realities.
As well as our partnerships overseas we welcome many international students to our Cirencester campus from over 40 Countries.
We also welcome many exchange students from our partners around the world.
We have established significant partnerships worldwide, aiming to reform agricultural education in the regions as well as reflecting our commitment to transnational education.
From our pioneering work in agricultural education in Uzbekistan and the UAE, to our longstanding partnerships in China and Ukraine, RAU is cultivating like-minded global leaders who will shape a better, greener future.
Join our diverse, inclusive, and ambitious international community, and discover how RAU is growing futures—globally.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students:
We have students from 46 countries studying in Cirencester, plus over 1,700 students studying with our Chinese partnerships, and 160 students at the International Agricultural University in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
The RAU has strong links around the world.
Overseas universities, Government bodies, and organisations have forged strong connections with the RAU.
Graduates have gone on to work for governments, influential companies, and to set up their own businesses.
We understand that you may not have previously lived or studied in the UK and could need some additional support.
We will provide you with advice and guidance throughout the application process, from choosing the course, to applying for your visa and making sure you feel settled in your new home when you get here.
If you have any queries we can be contacted by email on international@rau.ac.uk or by the international contact form further down this page.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/applying:
IELTS has many test centres with many test dates across the globe.
To find out more about the qualifications and a test centre near you, click here to visit the IELTS website.
If you have been educated in English and either have a country specific language test or international English language test, this may be accepted for admission to a course.
To discuss your English language qualification please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Our IELTS requirements are:
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk for more information.
View a list of all the English Language tests we accept.
All undergraduate applications must be made through the UCAS system (Universities & Colleges Admissions Service).
To start the application process: go to the undergraduate courses page and select the course that you wish to apply for.
At the bottom of the selected course page there is a section called 'Apply now' that will take you through to the correct page on the UCAS website though which you can make your application.
A personal statement is an essential part of your application.
Remember to share with us your goals, dreams, future plans, along with everything you have achieved.
Don't be shy!
Applications for our postgraduate courses can be made online from this website.
Visit the postgraduate courses page and select the course that you wish to study.
At the bottom of the course page there is a section called 'Apply now' where you can apply.
For those wishing to undertake postgraduate research degrees (either MScR or PhD) we require a research proposal, a CV and evidence of funding.
Please email these to admissions@rau.ac.uk .
You will need to have all of the following items as part of the application process to study at RAU:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/arriving-in-the-uk-and-getting-to-the-rau:
Carry the items below in your hand luggage in case hold luggage is late or lost:
The weather in the UK is changeable.
Temperatures may go down as low as -3 degrees Celcius during the winter (Dec - March) and as high as 32 degrees during the summer (June - Aug).
Rainfall is common but most of the time is light.
If you arrive in September, we suggest you bring a sweater and a light waterproof jacket or a small umbrella for the journey.
A pair of comfortable, waterproof shoes is also recommended.
Agriculture and Equine students are advised to have a pair of wellington (rubber) boots.
There is no particular dress code.
In general, students tend to dress informally (jeans, t-shirt, trainers) whilst on campus.
Smart clothes are occasionally worn either for recruitment events with employers or at social events such as Welcome Week, the Christmas and the summer balls.
Electricity in the UK operates on 220 - 240 volts.
You should check your appliance manual to ensure it will work in the UK.
You may also require a three pin plug adaptor, which can be purchased locally in the UK.
Check with your mobile phone provider before you travel to the UK.
It may be expensive to make calls from the UK back to your home country from your current phone.
Pay as you go Sim cards can be bought for as little as £10 although individual call and text charges may be comparatively higher.
Pre-pay phones do not require a UK bank account or address so they may be easier to buy if you are waiting to open a bank account.
Do shop around to get the best deal before you decide.
Please remember when you travel to the UK to bring in your hand luggage all the important documents and information you need, these are listed at the top of this page.
Have the following numbers handy in your pocket for use in an emergency, for example if you are prevented from entering through immigration or your flight is delayed for several hours:
Porter's Lodge +44 (0)1285 652531 (ext.
2200) or Security +44 (0)7960 031821.
If you travel by plane you will probably arrive at one of London’s main international airports: Heathrow, Gatwick or Stansted.
When you arrive at the UK port or airport you will find that there are two queues for passport control.
One for UK nationals and the other for non-EEA nationals.
You will first have to show your passport and entry clearance (visa) if you have one, to an Immigration Officer.
Students from the EU and certain other countries can also use the e-Gates if they carry the appropriate passport.
When you arrive in the UK, your passport will be checked along with your documents and you may be asked a few questions as you pass through immigration.
If you have a visa, then be prepared to answer a few questions about yourself and your plans/intentions after completing your course.
The expected questions are similar to the ones in the BIPF form we asked you to complete when we were preparing your Visa application.
Have in your bag the bank statement/financial sponsor letter you used in your visa application and your offer letter from the University.
When the Immigration Officer has checked your documents, and is satisfied that you are a genuine student, you will get a stamp in your passport (visa holders only) and will be allowed to pass through to customs.
Please check that your passport has been stamped before leaving the desk as sometimes immigration officers may forget to do that and it can cause problems later on.
When you collect your luggage you will have to join a queue for clearance through customs.
If you have nothing to declare it will be a green channel, if you have goods to declare the red channel.
Please note if you are travelling to the UK and you are carrying 10,000 Euros/Pounds or more in cash, bankers draft or cheque of any kind you will be required to declare this at customs.
Please go to the government website for more information and to complete the form .
The authorities warn that you may face a penalty of up to £5,000 if you fail to declare the cash or you provide incorrect information.
Please ensure that you comply with the permitted duty-free allowances.
If you do and/or you carry any prohibited goods you must declare them by going through the red channel.
Please visit the government website or contact the British Embassy or High Commission in your country to find out what you are allowed to bring in the UK before travelling.
Remember: avoid any involvement with drugs, never agree to carry anything into the UK for a third party and never leave your luggage unattended.
International students should be vaccinated for all of the diseases listed below:
You should also be vaccinated for tuberculosis (TB) before you enter the UK.
If you are applying for a Student Visa, depending on your country of origin/residence, you might also need to be tested for tuberculosis.
Ask your doctor about any other vaccinations you might need to travel to the UK.
Also, check with your local embassy to find out if you are legally required to get any vaccines before coming to the UK.
We strongly recommend you get your vaccinations before you leave your home country.
If you get your vaccinations in the UK, you may have to pay for some of them.
If you have evidence of your vaccinations (e.g.
International Vaccination Book) bring it with you when you enter the country and during your medical registration at the RAU.
Public transport in the UK is of a high standard, but can be expensive.
Buses or coaches are less expensive than trains but you may have a longer journey time.
Taxis are plentiful and convenient but are very expensive.
A taxi from Heathrow to the RAU would cost typically about £130 and from Gatwick Airport approx.
£170.
Visit: www.nationalexpress.com for information and to buy a ticket online.
N.B .
Ticket prices and length of travelling may vary depending on the service you choose.
The above are indicative only.
Follow the signs to Central Coach Station.
Visit: www.nationalrail.co.uk
If you arrive at Heathrow or Gatwick you will need to travel into Central London first by train, cross London by Underground or by train (Heathrow Express) and then change again onto another train.
There are frequent British Rail services from London ( Paddington ) to Kemble Station (Cirencester), via Swindon.
There are also regular trains from Gloucester and Cheltenham, which connect to the main train lines.
A taxi and bus service is available to transport you the remaining three miles from Kemble Station to the University.
Heathrow Express and Train: Follow signs for the Heathrow Express.
From Heathrow, you take the Heathrow Express into central London to Paddington Station.
There you can catch a train to Kemble station.
Underground and train: Alternatively, you may choose to take the Underground (Piccadilly Line – Eastbound and then Bakerloo Line - Northbound) from Heathrow Airport to Piccadilly Circus station and then change to Bakerloo line from Piccadilly Circus to Paddington.
Coach: Follow the signs to the coach station.
National Express operates a coach service from Gatwick Airport to Cirencester via Heathrow Airport.
Train: Follow the signs for the main line station and buy a single ticket to Kemble.
The journey may take between 2.30-3.00 hours.
Ticket prices vary depending on the time of the day you travel.
TAXIS from Cirencester or Kemble Station to the RAU:
Cirencester Radio Cars: 01285 650850
Kemble Train Station Taxi Service: 0333 8000750 from approximately £11.
If you arrive during working hours make your way to the Registry Office.
If you arrive after hours and you have booked accommodation on campus please make your way to the Porter’s lodge ( see campus map ).
Students on a Visa have a temporary visa vignette in their passport.
The standard validity period of the vignette is 30 days.
Your student visa is now electronic (E-visas) .
You will need to obtain a share code to send to us to update your student record with your new student visa details.
When you arrive at the UK airport you will either need to see a border patrol officer and get an entry stamp on your passport or if you go through e-gates then you will need to retain your boarding card.
You will need to send visas@rau.ac.uk either copy of the entry stamp or copy of the boarding card/ticket as part of the Right-to-Study check.
If you notice that any of the details on your visa are incorrect please let the visas@rau.ac.uk know so that we can contact the Home Office to do the required corrections.
The National Health Service (NHS) is the UK’s state healthcare system providing a wide range of health care services including appointments with a doctor, hospital treatment and dental care.
Students are advised to register with the Phoenix Surgery unless you are already registered with another local doctor.
More information can be found here.
If you are visiting the UK from the EU, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland, you should:
Students on a Student Visa and coming to the UK for more than six months will have paid the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) as part of their visa application fee.
This entitles students to access the NHS services free of charge in the same way as a permanent UK resident.
This includes the Doctor’s surgery, university health centre or a hospital.
You may need to pay for dental and eye/optical treatment as well as for any medicine prescribed.
Pharmacy prescriptions carry a standard charge.
Students from Australia and New Zealand are exempt from the IHS and will be able to access the NHS services free of charge during their studies in the UK.
If you are not from an EEA country and your course is for less than six months you are advised to take out medical insurance as you will be liable for health care charges you receive in the UK except in a medical emergency and this is limited.
Public holidays in the UK are known as “bank holidays”.
On these days banks, offices and many shops are closed and public transport is limited.
Click here for a full list of the UK’s national holidays .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/english-language-requirements:
The following list shows the majority of the tests we accept.
If you cannot see your English Language test in the list below please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk to discuss further.
Bachelor's degree studied in a MES (excl.
Canada)
They have studied and successfully completed an academic qualification at least equivalent to a UK Bachelors taught in a majority English-speaking country if the qualification was taught in a MES country (excluding Canada)
N.B.
A UK NARIC Statement of comparability must be obtained in this case

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country-table:
Click on the links in the table below for further country-specific information and guidance that you may find helpful as an international enquirer.
You will find information on these pages regarding: entry requirements, funding opportunities, visas, the application process and more.
We are not currently able to list all countries so if you can't see your country in the list please contact our International Team on international@rau.ac.uk for more information relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/scholarships:
Please note that before applying for a scholarship you must hold an offer to study at the RAU.
All eligible requests received after 11 June 2025 cannot be guaranteed, but will be considered after the Scholarship Committee have reviewed existing requests at the end of June.
The committee for each scholarship will meet each month to consider remaining applications and the outcome will be emailed to you soon after.
Name
Value of award
RAU Sports Scholarships
Up to £4,000
All scholarship applications received after 11 June 2025 will be considered by a selection panel, with a decision expected by the end of the following month, except for Vice-Chancellor's Scholarships, where an initial decision will be sent within two weeks of your submission.
All RAC/RAU alumni who are accepted for postgraduate degrees at the RAU are eligible for a 20% reduction in tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/international-students-welcome:
You will meet key support staff and attend information sessions aimed at passing on practical information for living in the UK.
The welcome day is also a good opportunity to become familiar with the campus and surrounding area before the start of the academic year.
The International Students' Welcome day sessions will provide help with enrolment and practical guidance on opening a UK bank account and accessing healthcare as well as information about navigating the admin needed when you arrive in the UK.
There will be introductions to members of staff from the Student Services team and other members of the RAU community who will become familiar faces in the year ahead.
The sessions will be informal and relaxed and there will be a low-key social event planned for the evening.
Please note - The International Students' Welcome day is optional and aims to provide a supplementary welcome to the RAU in addition to our core welcome activities.
All new EU and international students starting their first semester/year at the RAU.
The event itself will be free of charge.
Attendees will have the option to book a room on campus between Thursday night and Sunday morning.
Please contact us to discuss your accommodation requirements.
Friday 19 September 2025.
If you wish to attend, you will need to complete the Registration of Interest Form .
We will contact you soon after to discuss whether you would like to book a room.
Admissions
If you have a question please use this form to contact us.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/rau-global-partners:
Our strategic goal of ‘Reach’, as set out in our vision and strategy , underpins our work with partners across every continent.
We have developed deep, impactful relationships with institutions and governments worldwide—from our flagship partnerships in China, where we are recognised as a Tier 1 collaborator, to co-founding new universities in Uzbekistan and the UAE.
These alliances drive forward innovative teaching, cutting-edge research, and real-world impact - from dual degrees and summer schools to transnational education programmes and rural development projects.
Whether we are empowering women in agriculture in Zimbabwe, co-developing equine and land management programmes in the US and Australia, or evaluating post-conflict soil regeneration in Ukraine, RAU’s partnerships bring together people, knowledge, and opportunity.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/global-partners/the-international-office:
As our international footprint expands, the international office plays a vital role in overseeing our worldwide partnerships, ensuring that quality, compliance, and collaboration are embedded from the outset.
Our team works closely with sector bodies and ensures alignment with national and global priorities.
If you're interested in partnering with us, or need to enquire about international activities, we are your first point of contact: international@rau.ac.uk .
Professor Xianmin Chang, Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor (China Programmes)
Dr Esther Wilkinson, Director of Innovation and Learning
International Team

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/business-support:
While The Growth Hub Cirencester provides fully funded business support, including green consultancy, and free knowledge exchange events and workshops to pre-startups, startups, sole traders and small to medium size businesses in the Cotswolds, as well as offer co-working, meeting room and office hire.
RAU alumni receive free membership at Farm491 and receive 25% discount on membership and all other paid services at The Growth Hub Cirencester for 12 months after graduation.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/cpd:
Our courses, designed and delivered by experts in the field, are offered both online and face-to-face on our campus.
For more information, please get in touch via our continuing professional development enquiry form

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/consultancy-services:
For more information, get in touch via our consultancy services enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/employ-our-graduates:
For all general queries, please contact the Careers team at careers@rau.ac.uk
The Careers Service, Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, Gloucestershire, GL7 6JS Email: student.jobs@rau.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/venue-hire:
The Royal Agricultural University is the perfect location for conferences, meetings, weddings, and private events.
With excellent road links to the M4 and M5, as well as accessible rail connections to London, Gloucester, Cheltenham, Swindon, and beyond, our venue ensures convenience and accessibility for all your guests.
Take a virtual stroll through our campus and experience its charm by viewing our latest video tour.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau:
Our research strategy is framed around three goals:
Food insecurity is a central concern of government.
There is a great focus on the need to develop resilient, sustainable systems to optimise food production, promote animal welfare, and implement smart agri-technology solutions that will make food production more efficient, and achieve net-zero in agriculture by 2040.
In the face of climate change, globalisation, human population growth, loss of biodiversity and wild habitats and rapid urbanisation, the global environment is both directly and indirectly impacted.
Our research strategy combines a holistic and technological focus to promote sustainability, landscape-level resilience and biodiversity through agro-ecology, regenerative agriculture and regenerating communities.
We are looking at how to keep humans, plants and animals healthy, whilst preserving the cultural heritage, to make the world a better place to live.
Strategies to revitalise, regenerate and enable recovery at local, national and international levels will be framed by shifts in social trends in an increasingly digital world.
The need to level up communities and create equal opportunity in the UK and across the world, to regenerate economically and drive export opportunities to new post-Brexit markets, will create opportunity but also require transition, transformation and change.
These three themes interconnect throughout our six research clusters:
We undertake focused scientific research, spanning the UK and Western and Eastern Europe, but we also have a significant global perspective, especially in our doctoral research community and through our active connections with China, Brazil and sub-Saharan Africa.
The University’s approach to research has been formulated around collaborations between scientists, farmers and innovators.
As we are located within a largely rural area, we have been able to leverage collaborations, and develop innovative research projects.
This approach embraces farmer-science and farmer-led innovation networks, in which existing knowledge, skills and practice is widely acknowledged and developed.
For more information, please get in touch via our research enquiry form
Applications are invited by 22 May for this full-time PhD studentship, which for UK home students is fully funded by the Worshipful Company of Brewers, Asahi, and the Royal Agricultural University.
International students are welcome to apply but the difference in home and international fees would have to be paid by the student.
With a range of expertise in applied research in sustainable agriculture, food chain security, agribusiness, agronomy, entrepreneurship, rural enterprise, soil science, equine science and urban regeneration and development, the RAU provides a stimulating environment for individuals wanting to further their academic and professional careers thorough doctoral study.
This one-year full-time MSc by Research programme includes training in research skills to help you design your research project.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange:
Our knowledge exchange activity is driven by societal needs and is focused on collaborating expertly with government, industry, civil society and other academic institutions and involvement of students in real-world learning.
We use evidence-based, practice-led approaches to support policy makers through thought leadership, provision of professional development programmes, business support and creating space for innovation and entrepreneurial, business acceleration.
The RAU’s knowledge exchange strategy is focused on four key areas:
For more information, please get in touch via our knowledge exchange enquiry form

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange/rural-collaborative-policy:
Globally, nationally and locally, the rise of non-communicable diseases including obesity and type 2 diabetes are a concern.
Food and nutrition security remain a critical issue and a daily lived experience for so many.
This is a crucial time to take steps to transform the local and global food production system to both meet our needs and remain resilient and agile so that it can survive economic, environmental and social shocks.
In the midst of a data revolution, the need for best practice and the application of technology in food production from farm to shelf/menu provides opportunity to actively address food loss, food waste, animal welfare issues and aspirations for net zero living.
Solving these problems requires thought leadership and collaborative, co-created policy approaches where every community has a voice.
UK agriculture’s outstanding reputation for quality plays an important role in enabling us to compete successfully on the world stage.
We are international leaders in environmental protection, food safety and in standards of production and animal welfare.
This is the time for UK agriculture’s leadership to express its commitment to protecting and promoting our brand.
A national animal welfare strategy provides a business opportunity to promote UK-produced livestock products at home and abroad.
It offers the possibility of a genuine collaboration between government, industry and civil society organisations in developing this strategy.
An RAU / University of Bristol policy workshop was held on 21 February, 2018 which included over 50 representatives from government, industry, civil society organisations, academia and producers.
The participants identified that a national animal welfare strategy should be: outcome-based, meaningful, flexible, comprehensive, effective, transparent, collaborative, rewarding, positively incentivised, inclusive, achievable, evidence-based, progressive, animal-focused, prominent and sustainable.
The outcome document summarises the initial discussions and ideas on the development of a national animal welfare strategy and illustrates how they relate to DEFRA’s vision of the future for food, farming and the environment post- Brexit.
Specifically it is proposed that a coalition of stakeholders should establish a policy initiative focused on supporting a common goal of demonstrating and celebrating a UK claim for higher animal welfare.
The initiative could include a robust review of the evidence, facilitating action to maintain the UK’s reputation in animal welfare and celebrating examples.
of success.
We anticipate the initiative will bring together expertise from science, practice and policy.
The initiative could be funded by sponsorship and support from a large number of organisations; government (UK & devolved), industry groups, civil society and research.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange/rural-innovation-support:
Facilitated farmer-led or farmer-centric innovation and research initiatives are an important tool for managing this type of radical change.
Rural innovation activities support farm and land-based practitioner led innovation and sharing of best practice.
This has a direct impact on food safety, animal welfare, environmental benefits and improving biodiversity.
Four examples of our activities are provided here:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange/rural-enterprise-acceleration:
MP Michel Gove on a visit to The Growth Hub Cirencester, 2019
Winner of Enterprise Learning Provider of the Year, Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs Awards 2019, the RAU’s Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Programme (EEP) provides an inspiring and supportive environment in which students can share, develop and launch their business ideas.
The Farm491 programme, commissioned in mid-2016, has been instrumental in supporting companies from local to international level to identify, share and engage with innovation opportunities in the agri-food sector and to drive enterprise acceleration.
As a specialist agri-tech business incubator Farm491 facilitates the launch of startups and the growth of SMEs in farming, food production, land-management and environmental sectors.
Farm491 is an exemplar of innovation-led knowledge exchange activity that has driven an increase in local employment and local growth through to international economic benefit.
The Growth Hub Cirencester , located at the RAU, is a joint project with gfirstLEP which offers business support in the form of one-to-one business advice, workshops, affordable and professional co-working space, a collaborative community, incubator offices and meeting rooms.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/staff-directory:
Associate Professor of International Agriculture.
PhD, The University of Queensland (UQ), Australia, Master of Natural Resource Economics, UQ, Australia, Bachelor of Agricultural Economics, University of New England, Australia
International Teaching Fellow in Real Estate Valuation and Finance
PhD in Real Estate Management, MSc in Property Management and Investment, BSc (Hons) in Real Estate Management, H.N.D in Real Estate Management
Post-Doctoral International Teaching Fellow in Management and Marketing.
PhD
Senior Lecturer, Building Technology and Surveying.
Chartered Architectural Technologist (MCIAT), Higher Education Academy Teaching Fellow (FHEA), Post Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education, Bachelor of Environmental Studies – Architecture (Canada), Technical Diploma – Architectural Technology (Canada)
Head of International Agriculture, Senior Lecturer in Animal Production Management
BA (Leeds), MSc (RAC), MRAC
Senior Lecturer, Rural Estate and Rural Land Management
BSc (Hons) Land Management, University of Reading
Lecturer in Law
BSc (Hons) (First), LLM Commercial Law (Cardiff University), BVC, PhD (University of Birmingham), FHEA: PGCap
Senior Lecturer in Animal Science.
MSc Equine Science, BSc (Hons) Equine Science and Management, BHS Coach in Complete Horsemanship, SFHEA.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events:
If you would like an expert opinion, please contact the press office.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/why-rau:
The RAU ranked second overall in the UK in the 2025 Whatuni Student Choice Awards in the Small or Specialist category, and was also ranked second in the South West England Small or Specialist category.
In 2024 we ranked in the top ten in the Small or Specialist category and also ranked second in the Southwest Small or Specialist category, and in 2023 we received a special submission-based award for Cost of Living Support provided for our students.
Established in 1845, the RAU has a wealth of experience.
Our academics work closely with business leaders and employers to provide students with the skills and knowledge they need to start their careers.
The current global challenges of food security, climate change and Brexit provide unprecedented opportunities for the land-based sector and, importantly, for our students.
Every year, more than 100 students spend part of their course gaining a practical insight into the working world, expanding their employability skills and their network of contacts, thanks to placements across multiple sectors.
RAU graduates leave prepared for successful careers in their chosen field, whether that be leading innovation and change in industry, informing future land-based policy, or setting up their own businesses; which many of our entrepreneurial students do with great success.
Throughout a student's course and via extra curricula enterprise and employability activities, we embed and encourage the RAU Graduate attributes and the RAU values, which are to:
(15 months after completion of degree)
We have been ranked in the:
The 2024 THE Impact Rankings assess universities' roles in research, management, academic services, and teaching related to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We have been ranked 8th for Student Experience in the UK.
We were awarded Silver in the latest TEF ratings – September 2023.
The TEF aims to encourage higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning, and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
Institutions can achieve a Gold, Silver, Bronze, or Requires Improvement rating.
Our students are a name, not a number.
The RAU is large enough that many facilities are on-site, yet small enough to create a close-knit community that inspires students to consider us a home from home.
Students are known to staff by name and supported by personal tutors.
"I'm very glad that I came here.
I've made some lovely friends and had a great time studying, and I love what I do."
Poppy, BSc Equine Science student
Read a transcript of this video here
Our stunning campus is within walking distance of the bustling town of Cirencester, a thriving cultural hub, surrounded by beautiful Cotswold countryside.
With plenty of restaurants, unique boutique shops and popular night spots, it’s easy to see why so many students never want to leave – even after graduating.
Urban adventure is close by too - Bath, Bristol, Oxford, and Cheltenham are all under an hour from the University and London is less than 90 minutes away by direct train.
The RAU creates an environment where students can master the practical and theoretical skills that will open doors to new opportunities.
Our academics care about their subjects and their students.
Working alongside business leaders and employers, they deliver courses that provide the tools, mind-set and networks students need to play leading roles in shaping the future of the industry.
We have been rated one of the top six business schools in Europe for studying Rural Land Management (ceoworld.biz; 2022).
We secured £5.8m from the Office for Students to develop a new Laboratory Teaching Centre for September 2025.
We are upgrading our labs to underpin the curriculum by repurposing and improving existing teaching facilities.
The project will provide an integrated, state-of-art facility to train students in climate-smart, resilient agriculture and land management.
Over half the research carried out by the RAU has been assessed as 'world-leading and international in quality' by the Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021).
We are also the leading specialist university for research in England.
Our Professoriate are authors of the National Food Strategy and Nutrients Management Strategy which are the two key initiatives in Agriculture to support the Government’s objective in achieving net-zero carbon emissions.
Our agri-tech business inclubator Farm491 has supported more than 200 start-ups and SMEs, raising approximately £33M in investment, helping them to create 119 new jobs within its member companies.
We help students develop an entrepreneurial mindset, whatever their course.
We are one of only six universities in the UK - and the only specialist provider - to be made a Centre of Excellence by the Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs (IOEE).
Our award-winning Enterprise Programme provides an inspiring and supportive environment, enabling students to develop and launch their business ideas with expert help.
More than 65 businesses have been set up so far.
Our vineyard is run as a social enterprise and produces award winning wine.
It provides students with the opportunity to get first-hand experience in all aspects from supply chain management and new product development, to sales and marketing, as well as helping them to develop their enterprise and employability skills.
The vineyard is a pioneer in championing sustainability without compromising quality – through the development of a (smaller, lighter and recyclable) flat wine bottle and a recyclable can for (sparkling) wine – both ‘firsts’ for a vineyard in the UK.
Entrepreneur and Honorary Fellow of the RAU Levi Roots, who won investment on Dragons Den with his Reggae Reggae Sauce, is a regular judge on our annual Grand Idea business competition, alongside other top business names like Julian Dunkerton, co-founder of Superdry.
You can be anything that you want to be, provided that you have the planning, the passion and the perseverance.
The students at the RAU are proving that they have the entrepreneurial spirit.
– Levi Roots, Reggae Reggae Sauce and Grand Idea Speaker
Students joining the 17,000-strong global alumni network follow in the distinguished footsteps of entrepreneurs, politicians, writers and Olympic athletes.
This powerful network of alumni spans the globe and offers fantastic opportunities for professional development and socialising.
We are the leading supplier in the country of rural chartered surveyors with 165 alumni holding Director level posts at major national and international firms.
What I enjoy most about the RAU are the limitless possibilities which come from networking and building relationships with professionals in industries outside of University life.
– Lewis Bebb, previous President of the RAU Students’ Union
The RAU has a very active Students' Union , who are always busy developing fantastic activities, societies, clubs and social events.
There are a range of sports on offer from football, netball, rugby and hockey to clay pigeon shooting, darts and horse riding.
A choir, International Society, Officer Training Corp, Racing Club, Beekeeping and an Entrepreneur Society are just a few of the groups to join.
The Students' Union also supports projects in the community, including those at local markets and schools and even the renovation of a garden at the nearby railway station.
Nearby attractions include Badminton Horse Trials, Cheltenham Races (including the renowned Gold Cup), Gloucester and Bath rugby, as well as shopping and cinemas at nearby Cheltenham, Gloucester or Swindon.
Queen Victoria granted a Royal Charter to the College in 1845 and sovereigns have been patrons ever since, visiting the institution in every reign.
His Majesty King Charles III, then His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, became President in 1982 and has previously presented awards to students at graduation.
It was announced in May 2024 that King Charles III is our new patron.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/why-rau/our-history:
Concerned by the lack of government support for education, Robert Jeffreys-Brown addressed the meeting on the ‘Advantages of a Specific Education for Agricultural Pursuits’.
A prospectus was circulated, a general committee appointed and Earl Bathurst was elected President.
Funds were raised by public subscription with much of the support coming from the wealthy landowners and farmers of the day; there was no Government support.
Earl Bathurst leased a site to build the College and construction in the Victorian Gothic style began in April 1845.
Queen Victoria granted the Royal Charter to the College in the same year and Sovereigns have been Patrons ever since, visiting in every reign.
His Majesty King Charles III became President in 1982 while he was the Prince of Wales.
The first 25 students were admitted in September 1845 and the following year student numbers increased to 108.
Many of those early students went on to careers in Colonial Agricultural Administrations and the Diplomatic and Foreign Service.
From its early days, the College was staffed with innovators and pioneers and made a considerable impact on farming practice and agricultural science.
In 1931, Professor R ("Bobby") Boutflour, CBE, became Principal.
Professor Boutflour was largely responsible for raising the prestige of the College to its present high standards.
It was said of Boutflour, on his death in 1961, that he was "...
the most capable, colourful and forceful character that ever adorned the fields of agriculture" .
Frank Garner, the next Principal, enhanced the educational standards and Sir Emrys Jones, his successor, was responsible for the Hosier Library and the Frank Parkinson Lecture Theatre.
Vic Hughes, whose service to the College is one of the longest recorded, uplifted the teaching standards by the establishment of the many degree programmes that the University can now offer.
The first modern degree programme, started in 1984, was in co-operation with Reading University - a BSc (Hons) degree in Rural Land Management.
Subsequently, as the RAC, the University reclaimed its right to award degrees from the Privy Council.
The RAC had been independent of government control since its foundation until 2001 when it first received funding from the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), allowing it to widen access to its courses to students of all backgrounds.
In 2013, the Privy Council awarded the College full University Status, in recognition of its provision as a higher education institution.
The Royal Agricultural University will continue to lead the development of teaching and research in agriculture, agri-business, equine, food, and land & property management.
The University motto is 'Arvorum Cultus Pecorumque'; a quote from Virgil's Georgics, it means 'Caring for the Fields and the Beasts'.
What more appropriate maxim could there be for a University which, in every facet of its teachings, now incorporates a wider understanding of our countryside?

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-vision-and-strategy:
We will pursue our vision by focusing on three outcomes which run through all that we do.
These goals and measures of success are:
A global reputation for excellence and leadership across our teaching, research and engagement.
A growing, diverse and inclusive community of students and partners in the UK and internationally.
A showcase for sustainable and resilient management, through our land and estate, our finances, and our culture.
We believe in the power of working together.
We are stronger as a community of practice - inspiring each other, identifying shared goals, and providing reciprocal support leads to greater success.
We are receptive to new ideas and we value the diversity of experiences and skills.
We are committed to listening to everyone across the RAU community.
We adopt creative approaches to achieve our goals while setting higher standards, promoting professionalism and sustainability.
Individually and collectively we take accountability for our actions working with integrity to achieve the highest ethical standards.
We acknowledge the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals and are committed to maintaining an environment that seeks to eliminate all forms of discrimination and respects diverse traditions, heritages, and experiences.
Our Digital Strategy underpins the University’s strategic goals as expressed in the University Strategy 2023-28.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/rau-swindon:
RAU Swindon is situated in a purpose converted workshop in the railway heritage quarter of Swindon.
This £1.35m investment provides modern and fully accessible facilities in an innovative learning space calculated to encourage collaboration and interdisciplinary studies.
We offer a growing range of courses.
Teaching for students is typically taught on Thursdays and Fridays.
This allows you to complete your studies around your work or other requirements.
You can read more about our courses by clicking on the boxes at the bottom of this page.
For further information on RAU Swindon please contact Associate Professor Cassie Newland at cassie.newland@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability:
Sustainability at the RAU is a collective benefit and responsibility for the university community – everybody can help create positive change.
The following pages show just some of the ways that we are trying to make a difference and along with our new University Strategy we are paving the way to become the Global University for Sustainable Farming and Land Management.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/equality-and-diversity:
We are striving to challenge ourselves to think and act differently in order that everyone at the RAU feels like they belong, can be their authentic selves, and are empowered to reach their full potential.
You can read the University Policy and Procedures Relating To Inclusivity, Equality and Diversity here .
We know that diversity brings benefits for our students, our staff and our work.
The greater variety of perspectives and experiences we have, the better we can create innovative ways of learning and teaching, while developing ideas and solutions to create and foster equity.
We are seeking to promote an environment where opportunities are open to all and diversity is valued without fear of harassment, prejudice or discrimination.
Our work to embed equality, diversity and inclusion is anchored in the duties applied to the protected characteristics and set out in the Equality Act 2010, namely: age, disability, gender - including gender reassignment, marital status, pregnancy and maternity, ethnicity - including race, colour or nationality, religion or belief - including non-belief or sexual orientation.
The Equality Act requires us to have due regard to:
It is expected that all members of the Royal Agricultural University’s community will conduct themselves in a manner which reflects the University’s values, demonstrating that we are collaborative, open-minded, resourceful, responsible and inclusive.
Unacceptable behaviour including bullying, harassment and victimisation or discrimination – including but not limited to the protected characteristics covered by the Equality Act 2010 – will not be tolerated and any allegations will be taken seriously and dealt with appropriately under the relevant procedures.
The University’s Governing Council has ultimate accountability for compliance with the Equality Act and for ensuring that we are able to demonstrate compliance by:
Removing any existing and potential barriers to inclusion is critical to creating an inclusive work and study environment where people feel welcomed, valued, and supported.
Our vision for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion will take us on the next steps in this journey and guide our development.
The University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (2021- 2025) and Action Plan will ensure we not only achieve compliance with the legal duties under the Equality Act 2010 and our institutional goals, but also support a positive inclusive culture and national best practice.
The Royal Agricultural University has adopted the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) Working Definition of Antisemitism to support our commitment to becoming a fully inclusive learning community.
Anti-Semitism must be understood for what it is – an attack on the identity of people who live in, contribute to, and are valued in, our society.
There can be no excuses for anti-Semitism or any other form of racism or prejudice, and the University believes that adoption of the definition can be a useful tool to enable staff and students to challenge anti-Semitic behaviours, and ensure that any issues are addressed promptly, and not avoided because the term was ill-defined.
A case study outlining the Royal Agricultural University’s approach to the adoption of the IHRA definition of antisemitism has been published on the Office for Students (OfS) website and can be accessed here .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-partners:
We are stronger as a community of practice where we inspire each other, identify shared goals, and provide reciprocal support leading to greater success.
Agriculture and food security are global issues that require international collaboration as such we work with a number of partner Universities to tackle the challenges of today and tomorrow.
We are fast building a global reputation as a centre for practically relevant thought leadership as well as expanding into Uzbekistan.
We have formed partnerships with land-based colleges and schools to diversify our student community and extend the reach of the learning opportunities we offer.
Developing more sustainable partnerships with industry and research-leading institutions will provide a wider perspective, ensuring that what we teach is relevant, improves student employment outcomes and enables sustainability-oriented innovation.
We continue to develop strategic partnerships with local and regional farming enterprises, providing our students with an enhanced range of up-to-date best practice farming operations off-site.
All the farms are run on a commercial basis and our students benefit through access to their physical and financial data, which enables them to understand all aspects of farm management.
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) is a partnership between a company, university and a graduate.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/uk-partners/partner-colleges:
Capel Manor College is London’s only specialist environmental college, offering a diverse range of full and part-time courses in further and higher education for school leavers and adults.
The College plays a vital role in the green agenda for the capital, equipping the next generation of land-based sector workers with the skills and knowledge needed to help preserve and protect London’s wildlife, national parks and green spaces.
You will benefit from high quality academic and practical teaching across our first-class facilities.
This includes the Manor House, laboratories and Capel’s Creatures – home to our growing animal collection.
The programmes offered through the partnership are mainly delivered on Capel Manor College's Enfield Campus in North London, and include:
For more details, visit Capel Manor College .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/info-for-schools-and-colleges:
We are very happy to deliver live sessions either in school or online.
Visit our resource hub to see some of our pre-recorded presentations covering the topics we are asked about most regularly.
Contact us for access by emailing outreach@rau.ac.uk .
RAU staff and student ambassadors regularly visit schools and colleges across the country to talk about higher education and opportunities open to students.
This may take the form of:
If you would like us to visit your school or college please contact us by emailing outreach@rau.ac.uk or calling us on 01285 889878.
We recommend booking early to avoid disappointment.
Schools and colleges are welcome to visit our beautiful campus.
On campus activities include:
We will be hosting our teacher and adviser conference on Thursday 12 June 2025, 8:45 – 15:20.
Find out more and book your place here.
We are no longer accepting applications for Discover RAU 2025 as the deadline has passed.
If you have any questions about attending Discover RAU 2025, please email outreach@rau.ac.uk
You can also often find us at UCAS, UK University Search or other HE recruitment fairs across the country.
We are a proud partner of the GROWS Network, a collaboration of universities, colleges and schools across Gloucestershire.
GROWS works with young people in the region, raising their awareness of higher education and pathways towards it.
Visit the GROWS website for further information.
In addition to the foundation degrees and BSc (Hons) courses available to study here at the RAU, we also validate a number of courses at partner colleges.
You can find out more about our partner colleges here .
Students may be eligible for a contextual offer if they're from one of our link colleges, have been in care, from a non-white ethnic background, or live in an area with low progression rates to university.
outreach@rau.ac.uk
Tel: 01285 889878
If you’re keen for us to work with your school or college, or if you’d like to sign up to receive our newsletter, please email us: outreach@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/innovationvillage:
Our Innovation Village will bring together industry, food producers, farmers and landowners to create a global innovation park to spark entrepreneurial solutions for sustainable land use and a net zero future.
With the support of local and central government the Innovation Village will develop new innovative practices that will restore biodiversity and increase agricultural productivity while maintaining land health and building resilience in rural communities.
Centred on agriculture, food and land management, our 12-hectare campus Innovation Village will be a first for the UK and provide a world-leading centre for sustainable agriculture, agri-tech, biodiversity recovery and land use innovation.
It will attract international investment to drive solutions for the global challenges that face us such as climate change, food security, water management, decarbonisation and heritage management.
Our Innovation Village will link cutting-edge research  with industry needs to create scalable, practical solutions.
With a strong focus on agricultural innovation, carbon sequestration, and sustainable land use and management, it will be a beacon for UK and international businesses committed to regenerative agriculture and net zero.
Designed to attract forward-thinking partners and companies, the Innovation Village will provide:
The Innovation Village will redefine modern development with bio-based architecture, stunning design, and the use of local materials characteristic of the region.
Its pioneering design will achieve a BREEAM ‘Outstanding’ rating for Sustainability and be of Passivhaus ‘Premium’ standard for energy efficiency, comfort and affordability.
It will set new standards in environmental responsibility and sustainable design for future developments of this nature.
It will inspire innovation through its environment.
The RAU historic mission as the very first agricultural college in the English-speaking world, combined with our reputation as a solution provider, makes us the perfect home for this initiative.
By fostering international collaborations, and providing space for a thriving cluster of businesses, researchers and changemakers dedicated to strategic innovation, our Innovation Village will deliver long-term impact and sustainability.
A 3,400sq metre iconic building will form the central hub  of the Innovation Village and will be completed as the first phase of this exciting development.
It will provide a stunning location for a nexus of like-minded businesses and policymakers.
To find out more and start a conversation, please contact Innovation.Village@ rau.ac.uk .
Sustainable design is a fundamental success factor for the University and we have employed Architype, the leading Passivhaus Architect with more than 30 years’ experience, to lead the design process.
The Hereford-based architect has been joined by Cirencester’s OPS Structures and QODA MEP Consultants of Faringdon, meaning that the core design team is based within 60 miles of the site.
The landscape-led design befitting such a project is the responsibility of BD Landscape Architects of Tewkesbury whose job it has been to develop a scheme that embodies the values of the University and supports the ‘village’.
Following extensive consultation with stakeholders and industry, the project passed the RIBA stage 2 concept design phase, enabling submission of an outline planning application, in Spring 2024.
A submission for outline planning permission was submitted to Cotswold District Council in April 2024 and this was validated in June 2024.
The application can be viewed here .
We hope to hear the outcome of this application in the Summer of 2025.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/work-for-us:
Our current vacancies are listed below.
If you cannot find a vacancy or a role to suit you then keep an eye on this page, as it is regularly updated with our latest job vacancies.
If you require an application form in any other format then please contact the HR Team .
We acknowledge receipt of all applications.
If you do not receive an email from us after submitting your application, please let us know by sending a new email without any attachments to the HR Team , so we can check if your application has reached us.
The Royal Agricultural University recognises that through its recruitment and selection policy and procedure the best applicant is recruited and selected for the job regardless of racial group, religion or belief, disability, marital status, age, gender and sexual orientation
The Royal Agricultural University is a registered Disability Confident employer (Level 2).
Increasing employee diversity is important to us and we are committed to the aims of Disability Confident.
In particular, we will:
The Royal Agricultural University has become one of the employers in Gloucestershire to receive an Inclusivity Works ‘Inclusive Employers’ Award.
The awards scheme hosted by Inclusivity Works, launched by the GEM Project, aim to inspire more employers to work in partnership with the campaign and through the support on offer, take advantage of fantastic, talented and motivated potential employees who may not have previously been considered.
At the RAU, we celebrate inclusion and take action to create an inclusive culture where diverse groups of people feel valued, confident and able to be themselves, and have seen incredible benefits as individuals contribute their very best to the organisation.
Permanent or fixed-term positions
To take up an appointment at the Royal Agricultural University, applicants who are nationals of countries outside the UK and Republic of Ireland, and who do not have existing permission to work in the UK, need to get permission from UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Should you be successful in the selection process, the University will apply for a certificate of sponsorship that enables you to seek permission from the UKVI to take up our offer of employment.
If you are from the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and have family already resident in the UK you may be eligible to apply under the EU settlement scheme .
Your success in applying for a certificate of sponsorship will rely on meeting certain criteria – for the most up to date list of these, as well as further information on working in the UK, please visit the UKVI website.
Please be aware that we have a legal responsibility to ensure that all employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
Should you be successful in your application we will need to see documentation confirming your entitlement before you take up your appointment.
UK Visa support for Ukrainian nationals
The RAU welcomes applications from Ukrainian nationals who have relocated to the UK under the Ukraine Family Scheme or Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme.
For more information and guidance on these schemes please click here.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/why-rau/180-years:
To celebrate this historic milestone, we will be hosting a number of events throughout the year alongside our usual University calendar.
These will include a series of free 180th anniversary lectures on the challenges and opportunities facing our environment, farming, food and water security, and land management, as well as a community Open Day on Saturday 13 September to coincide with the date the first students were admitted to the then Royal Agricultural College in 1845 and many other events.
We hope that you will join us to celebrate our 180th anniversary throughout 2025.
You can read more about our history as the first agricultural college in the English-speaking world.
Details of the 180 lecture series, and how to book, are below.
This will be updated with further events as they are confirmed.
'Cerealsly' Rethinking Arable Growing Systems.
Nicola Cannon, RAU Professor of Agriculture, with Andy Cato, Wildfarmed co-founder.
Globalisation and Empire; an archaeology
Mark Horton, RAU Professor and Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Enterprise with William Dalrymple, author.
Dancing with Daffodils.
Xianmin Chang, RAU Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor (China Programmes) with Kevin Stephens, CEO of Agroceutical Products Ltd.
Our Future in the Land.
Presented by Professor Tom MacMillan, Elizabeth Creak Chair at the RAU and Sue Pritchard, Chief Executive of the Food, Farming and Countryside Commission (FFCC).
More details and book tickets here.
Making Farming Buzz Again.
Professor Duncan Westbury, RAU Dean of Land and Property Management, and Ann Conquest, Land Use Consultants, Associate Director, Rural Land Management.
Water, Wastewater, everywhere… Every Drop Counts!
Delivered by Professor Kiran Tota-Maharaj, Water Resources Management and Infrastructure and Andrew Blackhall, CEO Water Research Centre.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/contact-us:
Communication Preferences
By submitting this form, you agree to receive communications from The Royal Agricultural University for the communication channels selected.
To opt out of these communications in the future, please email our Data Protection Officer - Data.Protection@rau.ac.uk .
Any personal information you provide will be held in accordance with the provisions of The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (Regulation (EU) 2016/679).
We will not sell, licence or trade your personal details to any third party.
For more information, please see our Privacy Notice.
For any general admission questions, please contact our Admissions team by completing this form.
Please refer to the list below for specific enquiries.
For all other enquiries please contact us by post, telephone or via the online form to the left.
Google Maps directions to RAU
If you have a specific query about a course, please contact the programme manager directly, using the contact details found on the relevant course page.
Visit the University at one of our upcoming open days, click here to book your place now.
For enquiries about our venue, please contact a member of of the conference and events team to make a booking or to arrange a visit to view our facilities.
For any press-related enquiries, please email marketing@rau.ac.uk or phone +44 (0)1285 652531

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni:
As a former student of the Royal Agricultural University / RAC you are part of a global network of over 17,000 former students.
We want you to benefit from a lifelong connection with the University and each other, sharing experiences, and expertise and help to shape our future.
We are here to support you and there are lots of ways to get involved.
Please do contact by emailing us at alumni@rau.ac.uk or say hello at +44 (0)1285 889858
Connect with us on social media:
Please see below the opportunities to connect, get involved and support the next generation of students.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/open-days-and-events:
Find out about more about undergraduate open days and events
Find out about more about postgraduate open days and events
To book places for you and your guests, please select the event you wish to attend below.
You will then be taken to a registration page where you can give your details.
If you are travelling a long distance then why not make a break of it?
We have a number of en-suite double, twin and single bedrooms available to book , all year round.
If you're not able to make it to an open day and would like to arrange a visit to the RAU campus, please contact us directly at opendays@rau.ac.uk.
You can read a transcript of the video here.
If you are struggling with the cost of attending open days, offer holder days, summer schools or taster days at the RAU's main campus you may be eligible for reimbursement of reasonable travel costs for yourself and up to two additional guests.
Eligibility for this bursary is in line with our Access and Participation Plan .
You will need to be a UK resident and looking to study at undergraduate level (BSc, BA or FdSc programmes).
You will also need to meet one of the following categories:
Reasonable travel costs are defined as follows:
Reimbursement will occur after you have been to the RAU event.
To claim, please contact outreach@rau.ac.uk and you will be sent a claim form.
If you are unsure about your eligibility, or whether the proposed costs of your visit are covered, please contact us at outreach@rau.ac.uk and we will be happy to help you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/news/rau-host-international-conference-biodynamic-research:
Researchers working in biodynamic agricultural research across the globe will arrive in Cirencester later this month for an international conference hosted, and co-organised, by the Royal Agricultural University (RAU).
Organised by the Goetheanum Section for Agriculture, in conjunction with the RAU, the 3rd International Biodynamic Research Conference will take place at the RAU's historic campus from 31st August to 4th September and hopes to attract more than 200 delegates from all over the world.
Dr Jonathan Code, Senior Lecturer in Sustainable Land Management at the RAU and Programme Leader for its MSc in Agroecology, is on the organising committee.
He explained: “Biodynamics is a distinct set of agricultural principles, practices, and approaches to farming and food production, based on cooperation with nature and natural processes.
It offers both an alternative conceptual foundation and a practical framework for the sustainable transformation of food and farming systems and also acknowledges the socio-cultural and spiritual dimensions of agriculture.
“Biodynamics has been around more than 100 years - it started in 1924 - and it thus one of the first organic approaches to food growing and production.”
The conference programme includes keynote lectures, workshops, and research presentations as well time for networking and socialising.
The RAU, which was founded, as the Royal Agricultural College, in 1845 - the first agricultural college in the English-speaking world - celebrates its 180th anniversary this year.
While it offers the traditional agricultural and land management courses you would expect to find at an agricultural university, it also offers courses in agroecology, sustainable agriculture and food security, and environment and conservation.
Dr Code added: “To advance the sustainable transformation of food and farming, the complex and holistic nature of agriculture requires research that spans a plurality of knowledge systems and dimensions.
“Research in biodynamic agriculture requires a holistic perspective – not only to account for the many dimensions of farming but also to embrace the potential contributions of diverse knowledge systems to truly understand, develop, and transform the field.
“With the aim of discovering new perspectives in biodynamic agriculture research, the conference will place special emphasis on holistic approaches and study concepts.
We welcome research exploring various dimensions of biodynamics – whether ecological, artistic, humanistic, or economic – as well as research employing diverse methodologies and knowledge systems.”
For more information, or to sign up to attend the 3rd International Biodynamic Research Conference, please visit https://www.biodynamic-research.org/ .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/news/free-public-lecture-will-look-pressures-land-uk:
The fourth in a series of free public lectures to mark the 180th anniversary of the Royal Agricultural University (RAU), will look at the how we can hope to meet all the UK’s policy targets that rely on land without damaging the nation’s food security.
From tree planting to house building, it is estimated that an area more than twice the size of Wales is needed to meet all the UK’s policy targets that rely on land but there is no more land.
So, what is the best mix of ‘land sparing’ and ‘land sharing’ approaches to balancing food production and nature?
Even if everyone could agree how best to use land in theory, can government achieve any of this without treading too heavily on farmers’, and landowners’, toes?
And is all this actually just a licence to build houses and forest the uplands?
In the lecture Our Future in the Land , which takes place at the RAU on Wednesday 10th September, Professor Tom MacMillan, recently appointed an Honorary Visiting Professor at the RAU, and Sue Pritchard, Chief Executive of the Food, Farming and Countryside Commission (FFCC) and an independent Governor of the RAU, will dig into these questions and many more.
The FFCC’s 2019 report, ‘Our Future in the Land’ , recommended a national land use framework for England and the organisation has played a central part in shaping the Government’s approach and ensuring input and scrutiny from farmers, communities, and others it could affect.
Sue Pritchard said: "When we started out on this project, back in 2018, very few people wanted to talk about land and land use decisions.
Now spatial plans are popping up everywhere!
“Tom and I will talk about why we all need to care about land use decisions for a more adaptable, resilient and prosperous future, and how we can make sure rural and grassroots voices are not side-lined in national plans."
Professor MacMillan added: “While central government holds some of crucial cards that are needed for England to make the most of its land, it will be the rest of us – farmers, land managers, planners, and communities – who put any of this into practice.
“This lecture will focus on the tools we need to make joined-up decisions about land use.
There are already some brilliant examples but also a need and opportunity for innovation.”
The free ‘ Our Future in the Land ’ lecture will take place in the University’s Boutflour Hall, at its Cirencester campus, from 6pm to 8pm (doors open at 6pm with the lecture starting at 6.30pm) on Wednesday 10th September and is open to all.
Please visit https://our-future-in-the-land.eventbrite.co.uk to reserve your free tickets.
Originally established in 1845 as the Royal Agricultural College, the first agricultural college in the English-speaking world and with just 25 students, the Royal Agricultural University gained its university status in 2013.
To celebrate its 180th anniversary, the institution - which now has around 1,100 students at its Cirencester campus as well as more than 3,000 studying worldwide with its many international partners - has a calendar of events taking place throughout the year including this series of free public lectures.
Other events include the unveiling of a new sculpture made especially for the anniversary, the opening of the University’s new £5.8m land laboratories, a Community Open Day – taking place on Saturday 13th September - and a global online party for the University to celebrate with its international partners.
Professor Peter McCaffery, who became Vice-Chancellor of the RAU in 2021, said: “As we celebrate our 180th anniversary this year, we can reflect that our University is as relevant today as it always has been.
“Founded in 1845 to help meet a national emergency – how to feed the country at a time of burgeoning urbanisation and industrialisation – we are immensely proud of the contribution our world-wide family of 17,000+ alumni have made as leaders, entrepreneurs and innovators in agriculture and the land-based sector.
“Today we seek to equip a new generation of graduates to help address the global challenges that face us – climate change, food security, sustainable land use, biodiversity loss and heritage management.
“Building on our historic purpose – to care for the land and all who depend on it – we are now driving new frontiers as the leading specialist university in England for research, ‘top-of-the-class’ in our cluster of STEM universities for knowledge exchange, and sponsor of our £140M Innovation Village project to develop sustainable solutions for food production that will be ‘a first for the UK’.
“The RAU is also an exemplar of best practice in Trans-National Education, as recognised by UKRI and the British Council, and, in just the last three years, we have co-founded two brand-new universities – the International Agricultural University in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, and the University of Al Dhaid in Sharjah, UAE.
“Our influence and impact continue to be felt locally, nationally, and globally, and we fully intend to continue to punch above our weight in the future as we have done for the past 180 years.”
This lecture is generously sponsored by the Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust , a grant giving body that invests in people who will advance healthy, fair and sustainable UK food production.
Grants finance projects that help farmers innovate to survive and thrive while scholarships support and encourage individuals to innovate sustainable practices in farming.
The late Elizabeth Creak, was a widely respected and enterprising dairy farmer who inherited the business established by her uncle Clyde Higgs who was himself a renowned innovator, as well as a BBC commentator on agriculture.
Elizabeth bequeathed funds to the Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust to encourage and support innovation in farming.
For more details of all the RAU’s 180th anniversary events, and to book a place at one of the remaining 180th anniversary free public lectures, please visit https://www.rau.ac.uk/about-rau/why-rau/180-years .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/professor-water-resources-management-infrastructure-comments:
Kiran Tota-Maharaj, Professor of Water Resources Management and Infrastructure at the RAU gives his comments on the findings and recommendations from The Cunliffe Report .
An Independent Water Commission comprehensive review into the water sector regulatory system in England and Wales.
The decision to scrap Ofwat marks a turning point.
It reflects a loss of public and political confidence in a murky and fragmented regulatory structure that has failed to prevent environmental degradation.
Years of environmental decline, water pollution, mounting debt and unchecked profiteering have exposed the sector’s fragility.
Replacing Ofwat with a centralised regulator could lead to clearer oversight and better enforcement.
However, he also warned of transitional uncertainty, the potential for regulatory capture, and investor reluctance if the new body lacks transparency or independence.
Although the reforms are ambitious, they do not address the ownership model that many believe lies at the heart of the water sector’s dysfunction.
We must also acknowledge decades of underinvestment, £85 billion in shareholder payouts, and mounting debt.
Yet risks loom large:
The British Government posits that regulatory consolidation, tighter oversight and a £104bn investment (2025–2030) can fix deep-rooted issues.
Backed by the Independent Water Commission’s 88 proposals, reforms include:
Still, the sector’s ownership model - blamed for decades of underinvestment and £85bn in shareholder pay-outs - remains untouched.
Without structural change, such as public or hybrid ownership, real transformation may prove elusive.
The UK Government has ruled out renationalisation due to cost for the moment.
To ensure climate resilience and water security, urgent priorities should include:
Professor Tota-Maharaj is the Programme Leader for the MBA in Water Management at the Royal Agricultural University.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/clearing-great-chance-get-offer-place-within-minutes:
Daniella Miles, Head of Student Recruitment at the RAU, explained: “Whether you don’t get the results you are hoping for – or perhaps those results will be better than you thought – applying through Clearing is a super quick and super flexible way to get a university place and start the next chapter of your life.”
Historically, the RAU’s Clearing campaign has been targeted towards those students who didn’t get the grades for a place at their first choice of university but the Cirencester-based university has recently found that more and more young people are applying through Clearing because they have decided they want to study something different to what they applied for back in January.
Daniella explained: “Clearing is a fantastic opportunity to get onto a course that you really want and one that could take you in all sorts of amazing directions.
Often students think it’s too late to change their application – or, in some cases, to apply to university for the first time – but it’s not!
“If you missed the opportunity to apply earlier in the year – or maybe you didn’t think uni was for you back then and now you’ve changed your mind - then apply now!
It’s quick and incredibly easy – just get in touch and we can take it from there.
We are often able to offer a place within minutes of receiving your application.”
The RAU, which was founded, as the Royal Agricultural College, in 1845, was the first agricultural college in the English-speaking world and celebrates its 180th anniversary this year.
As well as an extensive list of undergraduate degree programmes, the RAU also offers two-year Foundation degree courses which are designed to also offer the opportunity to continue onto a one-year ‘top-up’ course to gain a full Bachelor’s degree.
Daniella added: “We want RAU students to ‘stand out from the crowd’ and by ‘growing experts in every field’ we help them do just that!
In addition to our popular agriculture courses, we offer a wide range of equine, farm management, business management, and environment and sustainability courses.
“All our courses offer experiential learning - with lectures in the field as well as the classroom – and we also have lots of scholarships and bursaries that students can apply for to help them cover the costs of coming to university.
“We put our students at the heart of everything and have a fantastic student support team who are committed to looking after their physical, mental, and emotional health throughout their time here.
At the RAU you are a name and not just a number.
“And our graduates are in demand – 89% are in employment and/or further study 15 months after graduation.
“Just find us on social media or just pick up the phone and give us a call on 01285 889912.
We can then chat through your options with you and we might even be able to make you an offer to study with us over the phone.
Take that next step and get in touch - you’ve got nothing to lose!”
The RAU is holding a special Clearing Open Afternoon on Saturday 16th August giving prospective students and their families the opportunity to come and have a look around and find out more about life and study at the specialist university that prides itself on the relevance of its programmes, the employability of its graduates, and the fellowship of its global community of students and alumni.
RAU Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter McCaffery added: “The Royal Agricultural University may be 180 years old but we are more societally relevant today than ever as we equip a new generation of students to meet the most pressing challenges that face us in the world today – climate change, food security, sustainable land use, biodiversity loss, heritage management, and more.
Come and see for yourself!”
For more information about Clearing and the courses available at the RAU just visit https://www.rau.ac.uk/courses/clearing , email admissions@rau.ac.uk , or call the RAU’s Clearing Hotline on 01285 889912.
Or you can request a Clearing Offer form at https://your.rau.ac.uk/form/offer-request-2025 .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/contact-us/find-us:
For visitors using Satellite Navigation, the University postcode is GL7 6JS.
Exit Junction 15 on to A419 to Cirencester.
Exit at Cirencester Industrial Area and follow clear signposting to the University.
Exit Junction 11A on to A417.
Exit at Stratton and follow Gloucester Road, from where it is clearly signposted to Cirencester Town Centre.
Take the A40 to Burford, then B4425 to Cirencester via Fosse Way (A429) from Stow-on-the-Wold.
The University is clearly signposted from the Cirencester by-pass.
There are frequent British Rail services from London (Paddington) to Kemble Station (Cirencester), via Swindon.
Tel: 08457 484950
Web: www.nationalrail.co.uk
Tel: 08457 000125
Web: www.firstgreatwestern.co.uk
There are regular coach services from London Victoria Station and Heathrow to Cirencester.
The journey about takes about two hours.
Tel: 08717 818181
Web: www.nationalexpress.com
Our closest international airports are Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff and London Heathrow.
Rail and coach connections are available from these cities to Kemble and Cirencester.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/accessibility/accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to:
This website is run by The Royal Agricultural University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Overall our website is accessible and our customers should be able to use the site without too much difficulty.
We are aware of the following issues that may affect the accessibility of some parts of the website:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 14 working days.
If you cannot view the map on our ‘contact us’ page , call or email us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact us .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We provide a text relay service for people who are D/deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
Our offices have audio induction loops, or if you contact us before your visit we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter.
Find out how to contact us .
The Royal Agricultural University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions' listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
This statement was prepared on 22 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 11 April 2024.
This website was last tested on 22 September 2023.
This website was tested for compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines V2.1 level A and level AA, and the test was carried out by Web Usability .
We used the Website Accessibility Conformance Evaluation Methodology (WCAG-EM) approach to select a sample of pages to test.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/cookie-policy:
There are two main kinds of cookies: session cookies and persistent cookies.
Session cookies are deleted from your computer when you close your browser, whereas persistent cookies remain stored on your computer until deleted, or until they reach their expiry date.
The Royal Agricultural University does not use cookies to collect personally identifiable information about you.
However, if you wish to restrict or block the cookies which are set by the Royal Agricultural University website, or indeed any other website, you can configure your browser to do so.
The ‘Help’ function within your browser should tell you how to achieve this.
Alternatively, you may wish to visit www.aboutcookies.org which contains comprehensive information on how to restrict or block cookies in a wide variety of browsers.
You will also find details on how to delete cookies from your computer, as well as more general information about cookies.
If you would like to configure the cookie settings on your smartphone, please refer to the handset’s manual.
Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of the Royal Agricultural University website.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/privacy:
For reassurance, these changes do not imply that your data has ever been at risk or misused.
To the contrary, we have always kept data secure and in line with all relevant legislation.
All the details are available on this web page and if you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.
The privacy notices listed to the right hand side are ways in which you might interact with the Royal Agricultural University.
You may be covered by more than one of these areas, but please be assured that your data is safe regardless of how you are involved with the RAU.
From 25 May 2018 the University will process your data in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its enactment into UK law.
View our full Data Protection Policy and Data Breach Policy .
If you have any questions, including if you are unsure which privacy notice applies to you, please contact the data protection officer at data.protection@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/freedom-of-information:
If you wish to make an enquiry about data held by the University and which does not seem to be already available, you may make a request in one of the following ways:
When we receive your request we shall instigate a search for the information you need.
If we cannot determine exactly what information you require, we shall contact you as soon as possible to clarify your request.
If we already publish the information you require, we shall send you details of how to find the information.
Please note that some information may be exempt from your access: should that be the case, we will provide what information we can and also provide reasons why other information has not been released to you.
Please also note that we may need to charge a fee to cover the costs of our search and any copying: until a fee is received, the information you require will not be released to you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accomodation-and-campus/accommodation:
Explore our campus and discover what life is really like as an RAU student.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/open-days-and-events/discover-rau:
If you have any questions about attending Discover RAU 2025, please email outreach@rau.ac.uk .
This two day residential taster course for 14-17 year olds (i.e.
years 10, 11, 12 or equivalent) is designed to give you the opportunity to explore our friendly campus and get a taste of what it is like to live and study with us.
You will stay in student accommodation, attend sample lectures, take part in fun practical activities and get lots of information and advice about coming to university.
The sessions will be tailored towards your main subject of interest, whether that’s agriculture and environment, real estate and land management, equine or business.
Thursday 21 August - Friday 22 August 2025.
The summer school is completely free!
This includes free accommodation, meals and activities.
Students who live in the UK and are currently in years 10, 11, 12 or equivalent (i.e.
14-17 years old) can apply to Discover RAU.
Priority places will be offered to students who also meet one or more of the following additional criteria:
The Royal Agricultural University, Stroud Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire, GL7 6JS.
Arriving by car: Please use the Stroud Road entrance and follow signs to the car park.
The barrier to the car park will open automatically as you approach.
Arriving by train: Our nearest station is Kemble.
This is on the London Paddington to Cheltenham Spa line.
We will be running a free pick-up and drop-off service to the train station for Discover RAU attendees.
Arriving by Coach: National Express coaches stop at Cirencester bus stop, and this may be a cheaper option than the train.
We will be running a free pick-up and drop-off service to Cirencester bus stop for Discover RAU attendees.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/applying:
All applications to study at the University are considered on academic grounds and candidates who may need additional support are encouraged to discuss their potential requirements with the University as early as possible in the admissions process to ensure these can be fully provided for.
The Royal Agricultural University is committed to providing equal opportunities for all of our students and we actively encourage potential students who may be disabled or have specific learning needs to apply to study with us.
We aim to support students with additional needs by striving to provide services and facilities which create a fully inclusive environment.
Further guidance for students with disabilities or specific learning needs can be found here .
You may also be eligible for a contextual offer if you’re from one of our link colleges, have been in care, from a non-white ethnic background, live in an area with low progression rates to university or you are a veteran/child of an armed forces family.
Please complete your application by the UCAS deadline to ensure we are able to offer you a place on your first choice course.
If you have missed the undergraduate application deadline of 29 January 2025 do not worry as you can still apply via UCAS, late applications can be sent through UCAS until 4 July.
You can apply online through UCAS where you can make up to five applications.
Once you have submitted your application you can monitor its progress through UCAS Track.
The video on this page gives an introduction to the UCAS application process and how to write personal statements.
We are also happy to consider applications from students wishing to transfer from another university onto an RAU course.
Details for how to transfer can be found here .
Studying at university is a very different experience from studying at school and college – it’s an exciting time and one that we are sure you’ll enjoy, but it is also a period of adjustment and its useful for you to know what university life is like and the expectations of staff and students.
The aim of any higher education programme is to introduce you to the most up to date developments in your chosen area of study, but a university qualification does so much more than that.
Subject knowledge is important but that can only take you so far; it's the practical application of this knowledge, alongside your skills and personal qualities, that will make you attractive to potential employers and set you up for success on your chosen career path.
At the RAU, we offer you so much more than a degree; we help you to develop skills and gain real-world experience that will give you a head start in the world of work when you graduate.
These six key attributes make our graduates stand out amongst the rest:
Professionalism, resilience, innovation, global and environmental awareness, collaboration and business acumen
The Higher Education academic calendar is shorter than most school and college years, being just 28 weeks of timetabled contact time, split across two semesters.
Each semester includes an examinations and feedback period at the end of each one.
Week 1 of the academic year starts at the end of September and there will be a continual run of 12 weeks until the break for Christmas, with the remaining week of semester 1 running through early January.
Semester 2 then begins and runs until the end of the academic year in May.
In addition to these formal teaching weeks, there is also a Freshers' week and induction.
The academic year is organised into two semesters with breaks for Christmas and Easter.
The Welcome and induction week is for first-year students and takes place the week prior to Week 1 (sometimes referred to as ‘Week 0’).
Alongside the Students' Union we have organised a range of daytime and evening activities designed to help new students settle in, find their way around campus, become familiar with key members of the teaching team and Support Services and make friends.
You will be given full details about your induction week and timetables prior to your arrival.
Studying at university is very different from school and college, with a much greater emphasis on independent study, however we recognise that this is a feature of university life that can take some time to adjust to.
Our approach to academic work encourages and supports the development of skills which will be not only essential for your time at university, but more crucially when you embark on your professional career.
Lectures form a large part of the taught activity, and certainly in the first year this may mean being amongst students from different courses who are studying the same modules as you.
Group sizes at this stage may be as high as 160 students, but alongside the lectures are small group seminars and tutorials where you will have the opportunity to explore key concepts in more detail, discuss topical issues relating to the key themes, and undertake practical activities that help set the theories in context.
To complement the lectures and seminars, there are also practical sessions, laboratory classes, off-site visits, case studies, guest speakers and field trips that may make up your timetabled activities depending on the modules you are studying.
To provide you with every opportunity to engage with the subject we use our virtual learning environment where you can find all of the modules that you are studying that year, as well as a course page for your programme.
The module pages contain all of the information relating to that module - the teaching schedule, the learning materials, assessments, online activities, additional resources, which staff members are involved and how to contact them, and links to additional external sources of information.
The programme page has information relating to timetables, assessment schedules, course meetings and other relevant resources.
There are also links to your timetable, and the various support services in the university.
For all taught activities there is an expectation that you will prepare before you come to the session.
This may be simply reading though the materials that are going to be discussed, or it could be familiarising yourself with a particular problem that you will be working with.
It could be a fact finding exercise for you to bring to the discussion to complement the activity, or it could be preparing something that you will share with the rest of the group.
Whatever the activity, this preparatory work is crucial to your enjoyment and development, and increases the depth and breadth of the learning experience as a result.
For some programmes there is a requirement to carry out a work placement – the details of what kind of placement and for how long will be explained as part of your course, but this opportunity has proven invaluable to students for putting their studies in context and for applying their newly acquired knowledge and skills in the work place.
These modules are referred to as work based learning and almost all of them require an element of self-reflection to identify areas of progress or further training needs.
If work based learning forms part of your course then this will be highlighted in the course information and can be discussed during open days.
Part of the reason for studying at degree level is so that you are equipped with the knowledge and skills for a lifetime’s career.
It is crucial for you to monitor and evaluate your own progress, take responsibility for your own learning and work collaboratively to solve problems, and undergraduate programmes help you to develop these skills.
It is your responsibility to get yourself to your lectures, manage your time effectively and prepare as necessary for your studies.
Lecturers will of course be on hand to offer support and guidance, but they expect you to be as involved in this process as they are.
Often students will see their timetable and misinterpret the non-timetabled slots as ‘free time’.
Whilst there may be room in your schedule for other activities, the time in-between lectures is there for you to work on assignments, group activities, prepare for lectures and seminars and deepen your understanding of the subject.
For every one timetabled hour, it is anticipated that on average two further hours are spent studying, so make sure you plan your priorities and use this time wisely.
Of course there are many other things competing for your time and energy, and we want you to become involved with the social side of university life but make sure this is not at the expense of your place at university.
Part of your development is the skill of time management and priority setting, which we can support you with.
For every piece of coursework you carry out you will receive constructive feedback not only on the knowledge and understanding of your subject but also how well you have demonstrated the skills and abilities that we are looking for in our graduates.
These assessed activities contribute towards your final module mark, which in turn contributes towards your end of year mark – this is referred to as summative assessment and feedback.
Your feedback is provided online so that you have a permanent record which is important because when you carry out your next piece of coursework, even if it’s in a different module, we will expect you to use your feedback to improve.
It’s important that you understand the feedback you have been given and ask questions to help develop your understanding.
In addition to the online feedback it is highly likely that the lecturer will go through general aspects of the coursework with the whole group during face-to-face sessions or in a one-to-one, where appropriate.
To help prepare for these summative exercises there will be plenty of opportunities to practise the skills required for your assessments and gain feedback on your performance.
These formative opportunities are extremely important and are usually embedded into lectures, seminars and the other activities that make up your course.
Feedback on these activities is usually continual and in a whole variety of forms – it may come from your peer group, question and answer sessions, one-to-one tutorials, exercises set in class or as a result of practising a skill and testing your abilities.
The important thing is to recognise these as opportunities to learn more about the subject, how well you understand it and your ability to apply your developing skill set.
When you first enrol, you will be assigned a personal tutor who will meet with you at least once a term, but you can request a meeting at any time.
Meeting with your personal tutor offers the chance to talk through any issues, and may be all it takes to find a resolution for any challenges you are facing, but if necessary they are also able to guide you towards more specialist services.
Student Services encompass a whole host of personal, financial, health and well-being resources that can offer advice and support during your time at the RAU.
We have a team of academic support mechanisms to help with disabilities and identified learning needs.
The important thing is to talk to your tutor early on about how we can best support you with practical solutions that help you achieve your full potential.
Select a download

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-funding:
We understand that managing your finances can seem like a daunting and complicated process - but it need not be and you don’t have to figure it out alone.
The Student Fees team is here to help.
Whether you need advice on how to fill in your loan application or have concerns about how to manage your budget, you can come to us at any time.
We can advise on the options available and what you’re eligible for so that you get the support you need.
Please get in touch by emailing the team studentfees@rau.ac.uk .
Here is an external resource that you may find useful to help you manage your finances well: The Student Money Manual produced by The Money Charity .
Tuition fees cover the cost of your academic studies.
This usually includes teaching costs, registration and examination fees (excluding repeat or trailing modules, re-sit fees or coursework resubmission).
Any costs associated with work placements will be your responsibility.
There may be additional study tour charges on some courses.
Please refer to the fees section on the individual course pages for details.
Full details of undergraduates fees for 2025/26 are shown below:.
** This fee would be pro-rata if more or less credits were taken.
Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student visa Child/General) that:
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk before you apply to confirm your eligibility.
On receipt of your application, the University will assess the level of fees that you'll be required to pay during your study.
To enable the University to determine your classification status for fees purposes as either UK/EU or international fee paying student we may ask you to provide the following information:
In certain cases, when a fee status assessment cannot be completed on the information above, we may ask you to complete a fee status assessment questionnaire.
Further information on fee status can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website .
If you are classified as a UK student undertaking your first undergraduate degree, the tuition fee for 2025/26 will be £9,535.
We offer some courses on a fixed part-time basis, please refer to the individual course page for more information on tuition fees for these.
If you are not classified as a UK student and are undertaking your first undergraduate degree, the tuition fee for 2025/26 will be £16,950.
The RAU is located just outside of Cirencester in the South West of England.
You have three choices for your accommodation during your studies.
You can live on campus with a room in one of the halls of residence with the option of half-board or self-catering.
You can rent accommodation in Cirencester or surrounding areas or you can live at home and commute into the campus each day.
Please refer to these page for more information on the costs associated with these options:
Student loans
There is financial support available from the Government to help UK undergraduate students cover the costs of living and studying.
Funding is available whether you are studying full-time or part-time.
Please visit this page to find out more about these student loans .
Additional support for students with a disability
You may be entitled to Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs).
You’re considered disabled under the Equality Act 2010 if you have a physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term effect on your ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs) are grants to help pay the extra essential costs you may have as a direct result of your disability, including a long-term health condition, mental-health condition or specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia or dyspraxia.
You don’t have to pay these back.
For both full-time and part-time undergraduate students there’s a single allowance of up to £26,948 a year which can cover:
How much you can get doesn’t depend on your household income, but does depend on your individual needs.
You’ll be asked if you want to apply for DSAs when you’re applying for your main student finance.
Once you’ve applied for your main student finance you’ll be able to apply for DSAs online.
After you’ve submitted your application for DSAs, you’ll be told what evidence you need to send to support your application.
If you only want to apply for DSAs and no other type of student finance, you need to complete a DSA1 application form which you’ll be able to download at www.gov.uk/studentfinance once the service opens.
You should apply and send your evidence as early as possible, the application process for DSAs can take around 14 weeks.
You can find out more information about what’s available where you live from the following websites.
Funding for students from the Armed Forces
The MOD's Enhanced Learning Credits scheme (ELC) promotes lifelong learning amongst members of the Armed Forces.
The scheme provides financial support in the form of a single up-front payment in each of a maximum of three separate financial years.
For more information visit the ELCAS site .
Bursaries, awards and scholarships
There are different forms of financial support on offer to prospective undergraduates.
Each has different criteria.
Please visit our bursaries, awards and scholarships page to find out more.
If you live in an area which has a lower rate of student progression to higher education, you may be eligible for an RAU bursary .
This list is not exhaustive and you may be eligible for financial support from other sources such as charitable trusts.
Paid employment
Some students undertake paid employment whilst studying at the RAU.
However, the university strongly recommends that your paid employment is no more than 10 hours per week so that you have time to concentrate on your studies.​
Bursaries and awards
Please visit this page to learn about some of those on offer .
However, the university strongly recommends that your paid employment is no more than 10 hours per week so that you have time to concentrate on your studies.​ It is very important that you check that your visa permits you to undertake paid employment.
If in doubt, contact the RAU payroll team on finance@rau.ac.uk .
If you are in financial hardship you can apply for additional help from the Access to Learning fund at any point throughout the duration of your course.
Please contact financial.support@rau.ac.uk for details and we'll be happy to advise.
Please visit this page to find out about the options for paying your fees .
Please make yourself familiar with the various University policies related to fees and finance .
Student fees

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/undergraduate-bursaries-awards-and-scholarships:
Please note that before applying for a bursary or scholarship you must hold an offer to study at the RAU.
The following additional awards are available for application for new undergraduate students starting their studies in 2025.
Students can only be awarded one additional award on top of the RAU Bursary (Stream 1) or RAU Bursary (Stream 2).
Once you have applied, we may give a different additional award compared to the one applied for, if the amount available to you would be greater and you meet the eligibility criteria for the higher award.
Up to £2,000 per year
All scholarship applications received after 11 June 2025 will be considered by a selection panel, with a decision expected by the end of the following month.
Global Scholarships
The Worshipful Company of Chartered Surveyors (WCCS)
Pathways to Property Bursary
For students studying real estate / property / rural land courses accredited by the RICS.
Closed for applications
Here are just some of the awards that our current students can apply for:
Professor Barry Dent Scholarship and International Exchange
If you are in financial hardship you can apply for additional help from the Access to Learning fund at any point throughout the duration of your course and irrespective of any other bursaries you have already been awarded.
The Money Charity

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/undergraduate-entry-requirements:
We accept a wide range of qualifications and experience to join our degree courses.
The University will make both graded offers and use the UCAS tariff where required.
This is so that the offers made to applicants are as clear as possible.
Applicants are usually expected to have achieved a min of 5 GCSE passes (A*-C or 9-4) to include Maths and English.
Applicants coming with the new GCSE(2017 onwards) qualifications will be required to have grade 4 or higher.
This will be equivalent to the pre-2017 grading system where grade C or higher was required.
Welsh applicants who hold GCSE Maths or GCSE Maths Numeracy will be required to achieve grade C or higher.
Either of these 2 GCSEs will be considered for entry to our undergraduate programmes.
If both GCSE Maths and Maths-Numeracy are required this will be stated clearly on the entry criteria of the particular programme.
The RAU mainly considers AS level grades to help us form an opinion as to what the applicant’s likely achievement at A-level will be.
AS level subjects will continue to be included in the offer making for certain programmes.
The RAU will usually make offers based on grades between CCC-BCC depending on the programme one has applied for.
Applicants with a combination of old and reformed A-levels will not be at a disadvantage and Admissions will exercise a certain degree of flexibility on entry grades for Firm choice applicants.
Please note that some of our courses may not accept General Studies and Critical Thinking as one of the A-level subjects considered for entry.
Where a Science A-level subject is required the University will not necessarily require the applicant to have been successfully assessed in any practical skills.
These are relative new qualifications but they are included in the UCAS tariff.
We welcome applicants taking these qualifications to apply to the RAU.
The university is aware of new T-level subjects being rolled out and we will continue to review new T levels for entry to undergraduate courses as information is being released by the Department for Education and relevant exam boards.
Some programmes may require particular subject areas or occupational specialisms.
The University will continue considering applicants who hold relevant BTEC, City & Guilds( Land based) and other vocational qualifications as well as those applicants who come with a combination of A-level and vocational qualifications.
Offers may be graded (MMM-DMM) or combined with the new UCAS tariff points where required to ensure clarity of entry criteria.
We welcome applicants with the Advanced Welsh Baccalaureate.
We require at least two A-levels alongside this qualification, with the Skills Challenge Certificate replacing a third grade at A-level.
For applicants with the legacy Welsh Baccalaureate, the Core within the Advanced Diploma is not a requirement.
The University will make graded offers (BCCCC-CCCCC) to applicants with Scottish Higher qualifications supplemented by Advanced Higher qualifications.
For applicants with 3 Advanced Highers offers will be based on grades between CCC-BCC.
Scottish applicants will also be expected to have GCSE English and Maths at grade C or above or the equivalent at National 5.
If the applicants have bypassed the National 5 then they will be expected to have English and Maths studied at Higher level.
If you hold Scottish qualifications and you wish to discuss further you can contact admissions@rau.ac.uk to discuss further.
Applicants studying Irish qualifications (post 2017)  will need suitable equivalent grades to be considered for our undergraduate courses.
The Irish Leaving Certificate would be required and offers may be made in the grade format of H3 H3 H4 H4 H4 / H3 H3 H4 H4 H4 or equivalent combinations of min.
5 Highers.
Applicants who do not have GCSEs would need Irish leaving Certificate grade O4 in Maths and English
All our courses accept applicants who hold the IB Diploma.
Certain programmes may require a specific subject at Higher level.
Typical offers will be at 26 IB points or above for honours degree programmes and 24 IB points or above for Foundation degree programmes.
Most of our courses consider applicants who hold the (QAA recognised) Access to HE Diploma.
Some programmes may ask for specific subjects.
Grade profile can be found on the entry criteria of the particular course.
Applicants will also be expected to have GCSE English and Maths (min.
grade C/4 or above or equivalent level 2 subjects).
The course page may also list any specific entry requirements, such as passes in particular subjects or specific grades, which may be a condition of entry.
Please check these to ensure you meet (or are working towards) the appropriate entry requirements for your chosen course.
Typically, all undergraduate applicants are expected to have minimum of 5 GCSEs with English and Maths (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) at grade C/4 or above or equivalent qualifications.
The RAU welcomes interest from applicants who may not have the standard entry requirements.
We’ll always consider evidence of personal, professional and educational experience which show an ability to meet the demands of a degree.
Some courses require a specific subject at A-level (or equivalent) and it may not be possible to consider applicants without this prior study.
If you believe you have the motivation and skills to succeed, email admissions@rau.ac.uk or call 01285 889912 and we can discuss your application.
We have a long history in welcoming ex-services personnel and are proud to be a forces-friendly organisation, as seen in our pledge to the Armed Forces Covenant.
We accept participants in the MOD’s Enhanced Learning Credits scheme (for more information visit the ELCAS site ) and will consider evidence of personal, professional and educational experience.
To discuss your application and circumstances please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .
We welcome enquiries from international applicants.
You may need to meet country specific and English language requirements to be eligible for undergraduate study.
For advice about entry requirements visit our country information pages or contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Alternatively, you can visit the Education UK website or contact our international team .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/on-campus-accommodation-fees-2024-25:
Please log your accommodation preferences via our Online Applicants Portal .
Please note - you must apply and accept your accommodation contract by 1 SEPTEMBER 2025 at the latest, to qualify for this offer.
A £300 deposit is required when booking accommodation (terms and conditions apply).
The balance is then due when you start university.
*Half board is based on 14 meals per week (breakfast and dinner).
Find out more about living in campus accommodation.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agriculture:
The BSc (Hons) Agriculture degree is designed to develop the professional agriculturalists and farm managers of the future.
This wide-reaching, industry-recognised programme is built on the latest applied research, informed by the RAU’s extensive industry networks and delivered by world-renowned experts in their fields.
It will develop your skills so that you will make a difference and stand out in the agriculture sector.
This is done through the applied understanding of science, practice, policy and innovation that underpins agricultural production, sustainability and resilient farm management.
The aim of this flagship programme is to inform, inspire and enable you to gain a fundamental understanding and critical awareness of the problems facing agriculture, particularly issues pertaining to the challenges of food production and its global impact.
We have worked with our industry stakeholders, current and past students, and within our own research teams to ensure our programmes are inspiring, forward-looking, and linked to the needs of the industry and employers.
The design of this degree is centred around four cornerstones:
Within each of these cornerstones, there are modules that will enable you to achieve the technological knowledge and employability skills to help you thrive in workplace.
You do not need to have an agricultural or farming background; you simply need the passion and drive to make a difference in a rapidly evolving industry.
You will learn how to build a sustainable, profitable and resilient agricultural business which contributes to a thriving sector - whether as a farmer, land manager, rural entrepreneur, agronomist, economist, policymaker, researcher, scientist or consultant – career opportunities are diverse and eclectic.
Our programmes provide practical skills and training opportunities, insights into global challenges and perspectives, a focus on innovation, personal development, and the prioritisation and integration of research-informed teaching.
Throughout the Agriculture degree programme, you will learn about a wide variety of farm and land-based enterprises, a spectrum of farming approaches, the role of technology and data and how to address the challenges and realities of sustainable commercial farming, whilst prioritising environmental protection, the highest standards of livestock welfare and farm business resilience.
The programme focuses on the role of the professional agriculturalist of the future, equipping you with the knowledge and skills you need to understand and then address major challenges in our food systems, from food security, climate change and land use to the imbalances in our food supply chains and environmental degradation from producing food.
At the same time, the degree will develop your understanding of the impact of a rapidly changing economic and political landscape on agriculture.
This curriculum is a clear response to the global current and future issues within our food system facing everyone.
Our extensive contacts and external visits to livestock and crop enterprises and agribusinesses will provide you with invaluable insights into industry.
Farm491 will give you unparalleled access to on-farm/applied product development initiatives and nearby farms will provide research trials.
This will help you to understand what it takes to bridge the gap between the laboratory, the field, the commercial market and the farm.
Students have gone on to work for organisations including Agrii, NIAB TAG and AGCO.
In your second year, you will apply your learning on a 15-week work placement.
Not only could you find yourself working for prestigious companies in the UK or across the world, you will develop confidence and industry contacts for when you graduate.
A transcript of the course video can be found here.
Real-world farm management scenarios allow for the development of applied skills, such as collaboration, team work and communication skills, along with problem solving and analytical skills, which are further honed in research activities and the level 6 dissertation module.
Your skills will be assessed through assignments, coursework, oral presentation tasks, and written examinations in a number of modules and taught via a combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials, laboratory/technical work, group work, case studies and project work.
Guest lectures, conferences and field trips will also be used where appropriate as an important learning method for subject specific skills.
The on-site research facilities and the RAU farms are used to enhance subject-specific learning.
The Research Project is an integral part of the course.
Completed in your third year, it provides the opportunity to research a subject of specific interest or of direct relevance to your future employment.
Please note that while we make every effort to ensure that timetables are as student-friendly as possible, scheduled teaching can take place on any day of the week.
Wednesday afternoons are normally reserved for sports and societies activities.
Each module is worth a specified number of credits.
Each credit equates to 10 hours of total study time.
Total study time includes scheduled teaching, independent study and assessment activity.
Full-time students normally take modules worth 60 credits per 15 week semester but this can vary depending on your elective choice.
Part-time students take proportionally fewer credits per semester.
All students take a total of 120 credits per level and 360 credits for the degree as a whole.
Your overall grade for your degree is based on marks obtained for modules taken at level 5 and level 6 (weighted 30:70 accordingly)
The modules available for this degree are shown below.
They may change for your year of study as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they’re informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
PLUS your choice of ONE elective selected from:
PLUS three elective modules from:
The availability of electives to individual students will be dependent on timetabling considerations and on sufficient students electing to take part.
The University has established various rules and regulations that you must agree to and follow if you accept an offer to study with us.
View our full disclaimer notice .
Our graduates have gone on to pursue careers within companies worldwide and within the following roles:
"A highlight for me was the soil science lessons as the lecturer put a lot of effort in to make sure we did practicals, and  crammed as many into our third year as she could!
I now work on my family beef and arable farm in Somerset and have  done work for the Farmers Weekly this summer, and I hope to keep appearing in the magazine in the future when I have time to write."
Bridgette Baker, Graduate
Required : GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications, one science level 3 subject is recommended for this programme:
Other level 3 qualifications will be considered.
Visit the UCAS website to calculate your UCAS Tariff points from the qualifications and grades achieved.
The University welcomes interest from applicants who may not have the standard entry requirements.
A wide range of qualifications and experience are accepted in order to join University degree programmes.
The University always considers evidence of personal, professional (APL) and educational experience, (APEL), which show an ability to meet the demands of their intended programme of study.
Alternative entry routes are available for a range of other qualifications.
Prior experience is also considered, subject to approval by the programme manager and admissions staff.
Read more general information about our entry requirements .
If you don't meet the entry requirements of this course, you may be eligible for one of our Foundation degree courses or another related degree course.
International students will also need to achieve IELTS Academic or equivalent at the appropriate level for your programme of study.
English language requirements for international students.
For any further help, please contact our admissions team:
For the academic year 2025-26 the tuition fees for this course are:
For part-time study, please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk for further information.
Please also refer to the funding your time at university page.
Tuition fees may be subject to an inflationary increase each year as set out in our Access and Participation Plan and are subject to Government and regulatory body conditions.
If you are an Irish national you can check if you meet the requirements for Home Fees.
Please visit the UKCISA website and consult the pdf guide “England HE – who pays Home Fees”.
First check category ‘3 years in Republic of Ireland/UK/Islands, settled in UK’ or ‘Brexit temporary offer for courses starting before 2028: Irish citizens with residence in Europe or overseas territories’.
You will possibly need to be fee assessed when you submit an application for study to the RAU.
The University offers a wide range of generous fee waivers and bursaries.
To find out more about the these, please visit the bursaries, awards and scholarships page.
Students, staff and employers talking about their real life stories and experiences and how they impacted on their career choices.
BSc (Hons) Agriculture 2025-26
When printed, this programme specification becomes an uncontrolled document.
Please check on this webpage that you have the most up to date version of the programme specification.
Applications to study at the Royal Agricultural University must be made through the UCAS system.
This applies to all undergraduate courses.
Applications should be made by the UCAS deadline to ensure we are able to offer you a place on your first choice course.
However, if you have missed the deadline please contact Admissions@rau.ac.uk as there are usually places available.
If you would like to apply during UCAS Extra or Clearing, please check that we have places available.
Applicants wishing to study on a course on a part-time basis will need to apply directly to the RAU.
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk to discuss your requirements and obtain an application form.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agriculture-placement-year:
In the third year, you will complete a 12-month period in the workplace.
Completed in your fourth year, it provides the opportunity to research a subject of specific interest or of direct relevance to your future employment.
You will undertake your placement year during year three of your programme.
You will complete Years 1 and 2, complete the placement year and then return for your final year of the programme.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agriculture-foundation-year:
This degree course with a foundation year incorporates an extra year of study at the start of your course, so that you can progress with confidence.
It will develop the skills you need for your later studies.
It is particularly suitable if:
In your third year, you will apply your learning on a 15-week work placement.
The Integrated Foundation Year is suitable for applicants who have taken level 3 qualifications (A levels, BTEC etc.) in the UK.
Overseas students who have not studied in the UK and completed their secondary education in their country, should look at taking an Integrated Foundation Programme in order to meet the entry criteria for the degree programmes offered by the RAU.
Please note that a foundation year is not the same as a foundation degree (FdSc).
A foundation year will usually lead onto a three-year degree course, whereas a foundation degree is a standalone qualification generally studied for two years.
For UK students (as of March 2020) a visa may not be required but this may change.
For non UK/EU nationals (current Tier 4 visa students), the student will have to arrange their own visa.
The research project is an integral part of the course.
Completed in your final year, it provides the opportunity to research a subject of specific interest or of direct relevance to your future employment.
Your overall grade for your degree is based on marks obtained for modules taken at level 5 and level 6 (weighted 30:70 accordingly).
The Foundation year will provide a common core of academic and study skills sufficient to prepare you for subsequent study and academic success at undergraduate level.
It will give core underpinning knowledge, skills and understanding in key areas of contemporary issues, provide underpinning subject-related skills and knowledge in key areas required for undergraduate study, including Mathematics, Numeracy and IT.
It will also provide generic skills and academic knowledge to support your confidence and discipline as appropriate for higher education study and give subject-specific grounding, in terms of research topics and study focus, to support progression into degree level study in your chosen degree.
* Optional additions to the course will incur additional charges
Our graduates have gone on to pursue careers within companies worldwide and within the following roles:
Required: GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications, one science level 3 subject is recommended for this programme:
Integrated Foundation Year programme specification 2025-26
Senior Lecturer: Food Quality and Security & Student Exchange Academic Lead
BA Hons Politics and Geography

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/foundation-degrees/fdsc-agriculture-and-farm-management:
Whether you wish to manage an agricultural enterprise or farming business, migrate into finance or journalism, or continue studying agriculture and land management, this course will give you the practical, financial and leadership skills you need.
You will cover topics such as accounts and economics, animal and crop science, crop production, and farm business management.
Right from your first year you will gain an understanding of the agricultural industry, with focused practical studies.
You will advance even further with work experience during the summer between your first and second year.
You will also have the opportunity to gain relevant practical experience and qualifications through rural skills training.
After successfully completing the Foundation degree you may wish to consider enrolling for additional year of study on the BSc (Hons) Agricultural Management (Top-up ) to obtain an Honours degree.
You will complete a 10-week period of work experience, usually during the summer between your first and second year, to gain further training and experience in farm management.
Not only could you find yourself working for prestigious companies, develop your confidence and gain industry contacts for when you graduate.
This experience helps our graduates develop key employability skills and gain invaluable industry contacts.
You will be assessed through a wide range of techniques, including research projects, examinations, case studies, business plans, portfolio, presentations and practical skills.
You can also enrol for courses leading to the award of Certificate of Competence.
Part-time students taking proportionally fewer credits per semester.
All students take a total of 120 credits per level and 240 credits for the foundation degree as a whole.
The overall grade for your foundation degree is based on marks obtained for modules taken at level 4 and level 5 (weighted 30:70) accordingly.
"If you are looking into becoming a full-time farmer, this course teaches you everything you need to know about that path, and it prepares you from the very beginning to start thinking like a farmer."
Tatenda Mazorodze, Student
Required: GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications:
FdSc Agriculture and Farm Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agri-management-top-up:
If you are aspiring to a career in farm management, agricultural consultancy or an environmental / land management advisory role, this course is ideal for you.
Graduates have gone on to work for prestigious companies such as Agrii, Dalmark Group, Waitrose, AGCO and Natural England.
This top-up degree will inform, inspire and enable you to gain a fundamental understanding and critical awareness of the problems facing agriculture today, particularly issues relating to the challenges of food production and its global impacts.
The farming industry needs new talent, and that means that you are key.
Here at the RAU, we're taking on the challenges and opportunities facing agriculture, nationally and globally, to include food security, climate change, environmental land management and shifts in market demand.
You will learn how to build a productive, resilient and sustainable agricultural business which contributes to a thriving sector - whether as a farmer, land manager, agronomist, economist, policymaker, researcher, scientist or consultant – career opportunities are diverse and eclectic.
The programme has been developed in consultation with employers to ensure that you have the knowledge and skills necessary to work effectively in the industry sector.
You will be able to lead and develop sustainable agricultural livestock and crop practices, evaluate new techniques, instigate change and be able to contribute effectively to the development of the industry.
The course offers a range of subject areas so that you can engineer your qualification according to your interests and career aspirations.
This is likely to appeal to you if you wish to follow a specialist career (e.g.
as a technical adviser in agronomy, livestock nutrition, biosecurity, agricultural policy research, farm manager, food security and safety, agricultural consultancy, breeding / health and disease, enterprise, or unit operator in agricultural on production-based enterprises either domestically or internationally).
Irrespective of subject area chosen, the programme will give you skills in critical enquiry and evaluation of current processes and practices in the land management sector.
This will ensure that you have the most up-to-date knowledge and can use it to meet the challenges of a changing industry with confidence.
If you are already employed you may choose to study up to 50% of the course in the workplace, reducing the amount of time you will spend on campus-based modules.
You will put your learning into practice on this course through hands-on experience in laboratories, on farms and via agricultural case studies.
You will also have access to the University’s Farm491 facility, an innovative agritech business incubator providing facilities and support to agritech businesses and promoting technology and innovation within the sector.
You will also select two elective modules, to specialise in a specific sector of interest or to gain a broader understanding of agriculture, land-use and business issues.
The course will be delivered through a series of lectures, seminars, group projects, visits and demonstrations at local farms, agricultural businesses and in the RAU laboratories.
You will be assessed through research projects, examinations, presentations, work based learning and case studies.
If you are already employed you may choose to study up to 50% of the course in the workplace, reducing the amount of time you will spend on campus-based modules.
All full-time academic programmes at the RAU are constructed using a selection of modules, each of which requires engagement with a variety of learning activities.
Successful completion of module assessments will result in the award of credits, and students are required to achieve a total of 120 credits.
Part-time students are required to achieve a 60 credits per year over two years.
Each module represents a value of 15 credits or multiples thereof.
Each 15-credit module represents a minimum of 150 hours of student learning, effort and assessment.
To achieve the award of BSc (Hons) in Agricultural Management, a student must achieve a minimum of 120 credits.
For this BSc (Hons) Top-up course, your grade is calculated entirely on this course's modules.
A description of each module can be found here.
"In the classroom you learn information ‘academically’, but the RAU also offers many great placement options.
Over the holidays – Christmas, Easter and Summer – you can do placements and learn information ‘practically’."
Oliver Pritchard, Graduate
BSc (Hons) Agri-Management Top-up 2025-26
Summary of modules for this course

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agricultural-business-management:
The evolution of how food is produced, marketed, and controlled has created a need for professionals who can manage increasingly complex global supply chains, delivering value for businesses and consumers.
The BSc (Hons) in Agricultural Business Management will support you to develop the unique mix of knowledge and skills required to work in a range of roles in the extended food supply chain.
Whether you want a career in a corporate environment directing supply systems, working in a family business or, in a SME refining delivery processes, this degree will support you to achieve your goals.
Core modules will give you a solid grounding in business while specialist modules will encourage you to explore food supply systems and their management in a wide range of contexts.
You will attend networking events, gain contacts through our alumni network, and have the opportunity to take part in a range of trips and activities to broaden your perspective.
After graduating you may also receive the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership.
In addition, membership to CMI is free for three months after graduation.
In the second year of the degree programme, you will apply and develop your expertise during a 15-week work placement.
Not only could you find yourself working for prestigious companies in the UK or across the world, you will also develop your confidence and make a range of industry contacts.
We are delighted to work with a wide range of businesses, partners and accreditation organisations, some of which are shown below:
Across the programme Employability Standards are built into every module.
These are designed in consultation with employers, so you will always be able to see the relevance of what you are studying to your future career.
Please note that while we make every effort to ensure that timetables are as student-friendly as possible, scheduled teaching can take place on any day Monday to Friday.
In the first year, you will focus on the fundamentals of business management, marketing and finance.
In the final year, you will have the opportunity to select elective modules and specialise in subjects of particular interest and relevance to your future career aspirations.
​
Plus a choice of TWO electives selected from: ​
The Agricultural Business Management core modules emphasise themes of: creativity, innovation, using one’s initiative, dealing with ambiguity and risk management.
We pride ourselves on being able to help our students acquire the skills they need to foster their initiative and creativity as responsible global citizens.
"I enjoy the practicality of the learning and how interactive the lecturers are with Students"
James Edmondson, student
If you don't meet the entry requirements of this degree, you may be eligible for one of our Foundation degree courses or another related degree course.
Associate Professor in Business
PhD, MSc, PgCTHE, FHEA
BSc (Hons) Agricultural Business Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-agrifood-business-management-placement-year:
You'll also have the chance to put your learning to practice during a work-based placement year.
In the third year, you will apply and develop your expertise and complete a 12-month period in the workplace.
These are designed in consultation with employers, so you will always be able to see the relevance of what you are studying to your future career.
The modules available for this degree are as follows:
You will undertake your placement year during year three of your programme.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management:
Businesses around the world are experiencing a period of rapid global economic change which they must react to in order to grow.
The BSc (Hons) in Business Management will support you to develop a range of intellectual, analytical, and critical thinking skills that will position you to help these businesses address the challenges they face.
The BSc (Hons) in Business Management immerses you in the theory and practice of business.
During the degree you will study a wide range of modules covering key business disciplines with a focus on strategy and internationalisation.
You will attend networking events, gain contacts through our alumni network, and have the opportunity to take part in a range of trips and activities to broaden your perspective on businesses and their operations.
Upon successful completion of the degree you may also receive the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership.
Also, membership to CMI is free for three months after graduation.
"The staff have been great, we have lecturers who have real-world experience, they are successful entrepreneurs in their own right but also great at teaching about it."
Emily Tal, Student
If you don't meet the entry requirements of this degree, you may be eligible for one of our Foundation degree courses or another related degree course.
BSc (Hons) Business Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-placement-year:
The BSc (Hons) in Business Management immerses you in the theory and practice of international business.
Upon successful completion of the degree you may also receive the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Diploma in Management.
Not only could you find yourself working for prestigious companies in the UK or across the world, you will develop confidence and industry contacts.
We are delighted to work with a wider range of businesses, partners and accreditation organisations, some of which are shown below:
You will undertake your placement year during year three of your programme.
Typical offers

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/courses/bsc-hons-business-management-foundation-year:
BSc (Hons) Business Management Programme Specification 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-topup:
Businesses need ever more skilled and highly adaptable personnel to face the challenges of a rapidly changing rapid global economic climate.
The BSc (Hons) in Business Management is designed for students who want to level-up their existing qualifications to access opportunities in new careers or existing places of work.
The BSc (Hons) in Business Management is a one year top-up for people who already have a Foundation degree or other HND-Level qualification and want to gain a full undergraduate degree.
This innovative degree is firmly rooted in your own experience.
Across the programme you will investigate how organisations think and work, how they’re managed, and how they are affected by the external world in which they operate.
leading you to achieve your career aspirations across a wide range of industries.
Modules are designed in consultation with employers, so you will always be able to see the relevance of what you are studying to your future career.
This programme is available as both a full time over one year or part time over two years.
We are delighted to work with a wide range of businesses, partners, and accreditation organisations, some of which are shown below:
You will complete a research project which will give you an opportunity to study, in-depth, a subject of specific interest or of direct relevance to your future employment.
The successful completion of this leads to the BSc (Hons) classification.
These are designed in consultation with employers, so you will always be able to see the relevance of what you are studying to your future career.
To achieve the award of BSc (Hons) in Business Management, a student must achieve a minimum of 120 credits.
Plus a choice of ONE elective in each semester, from:
The University and the School of Business and Entrepreneurship has links with a wide range of businesses, through our local Growth Hub, Chamber of Commerce, Enterprise partnership and over 175 years of successful Alumni.
"To see our students going to work at some real top-notch UK and international companies is absolutely phenomenal."
Dr Matthew Rogers-Draycott, Lecturer
BSc (Hons) Business Management (Top Up) 2025-26
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk to discuss your requirements and obtain an application form

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-ba-environment-sustainability:
The growing awareness of environmental issues and the associated problems that individuals, society and the government are encountering means that there is increasing focus and support being given to this sector.
Sustainability is at the heart of this and employers are actively seeking trained graduates with skills and knowledge in environmental sustainability.
This new programme provides students with a great opportunity to help fill this gap.
The new BSc/BA Environment & Sustainability degree will give you the opportunity to make a difference in the environmental sector.
You can study by choosing to follow either a Bachelor of Science (BSc) or Bachelor of Arts (BA) route.
The key differences between the two pathways are that the BSc focuses on technology and innovation, ecological thinking, environmental sustainability, consultancy & advisory whereas the BA covers environmental humanities, food & agriculture, advocacy & activism and integrating modules.
The BSc Environment & Sustainability will take advantage of the employment ‘environmental’ gap mentioned previously whereas the BA Environment & Sustainability will focus on the roles of people and society in solving environmental problems, giving more attention to the ‘social’ element of sustainability, alongside the environmental and economic.
During your first year all students will study the same modules and then during your second year you will choose which route you wish to follow.
Transcript of video
Incorporated into the programme will be guest lectures and field visits giving you access to the latest professional developments and knowledge as well as environmental conferences and workshop, enabling you to gain insights to the various employment pathways into the environment sector, and give you the chance to network.
PLUS choice of TWO electives selected from:
BSc degree
BA degree
Required : GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications:
Senior Lecturer in Environmental Management and Sustainability
PhD (The Open University), MSc (Universidade Eduardo Mondlane), BSc (University of Malawi).
BSc/BA (Hons) Environment and Sustainability 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-ba-environment-sustainability-foundation-year:
During your second year all students will study the same modules and then during your third year you will choose which route you wish to follow.
In the third year of the degree programme, you will apply and develop your expertise during a 15-week work placement.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/foundation-degrees/fdsc-wildlife-conservation-and-countryside-management:
The effective conservation of species, ecosystems and natural resources is vital for future sustainable development.
On this course you will gain the academic knowledge, applied ecological theory and extensive hands- on field experience needed to manage habitats and conserve wildlife.
You will also enrich your knowledge by exploring wider topics such as rewilding, environmental issues, agri-environment schemes, and the work of conservation organisations.
With this combination of academic knowledge, practical skills and work experience, it’s no wonder that our graduates have gone on to work for prestigious organisations such as The Wildlife Trust, The National Trust and The Forestry Commission.
"100% positivity score from students completing the 2025 National Student Survey for how often the course is intellectually stimulating"
After successfully completing the Foundation degree you may wish to consider enrolling for additional year of study on the BSc (Hons) Wildlife and Countryside Management (Top-up) to obtain an Honours degree.
You will complete a 30-day work placement usually during the summer between your first and second year.
This will give you essential skills and experience of wildlife and environmental management activities within the sector.
Field visits to conservation sites and organisations are not only exciting but essential to this course.
Previous destinations include Knepp Estate, Rhossili Bay, British Wildlife Centre, Elan Valley and many more.
Right from your first year, you will gain grounding in work-related situations as well as academic study before developing a deeper understanding of the key issues in your second year.
You will be assessed through field reports, research projects, examinations, case studies, portfolios, presentations and practical skills.
The programme has developed strong linkages with a wide number and range of conservation and environmental organisations including the Wildlife Trusts, National Trust, Wildfowl and Wetland Trust, Cotswold Conservation Board (AONB), Butterfly Conservation, various Ecological Consultancies, Local Authorities, amongst many others.
Students have multiple opportunities to meet with and often work alongside organisations and people from the conservation sector via our practical field activities and teaching sessions.
The programme also provides a step towards into higher-degree levels, research programmes, and other opportunities in academia.
"The course taught me the key knowledge about land and wildlife management, how to evaluate different needs and  approaches and take a wider and more holistic view of countryside management."
Thomas Pagon, Graduate
Associate Professor, Agriculture, Food and Environment.
PhD (Sydney), MSc (Aberdeen), BSc (Newcastle-upon-Tyne), PGCHE (Glos), FHEA
FdSc Wildlife Conservation and Countryside Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-wildlife-and-countryside-management-top-up:
Interested in roles such as a Biodiversity Officer, Ecological Consultant, or Countryside Manager?
These are just some of the routes open to you after this course, designed with organisations directly involved in conservation.
Graduates have gone on to work at nationally-recognised organisations such as the Wildlife Trusts, the National Trust and the Farming and Wildlife Advisory Group.
Understanding both the big picture, along with the detail will help you become an effective manager of wildlife and the countryside, covering issues from climate change, ecosystem services to protected species surveys.
This course brings together academic knowledge and research skills to inform sustainable management of wildlife and the countryside .
A key part of your studies will be the research project where you showcase your specialist knowledge and research skills.
Previous topics have spanned a wide choice of habitats, species and countryside issues.
Your learning will be directed by research-active lecturers and industry experts.
The course has been designed with input from employers to maximise your employability prospects and career development after graduation.
You will learn through lectures, seminars, projects, visits and demonstrations.
Modules are mainly assessed through coursework with occasional timed assessment for some subject matter.
Where possible, coursework reflects the expectations of industry and can therefore include things like professional practice reports, case study evaluations, grant applications, oral presentations, team activities, alongside the more traditional academic literature reviews and essays, academic posters etc.
A key element of the top-up degree is the Honours Dissertation in which you will propose a research idea, develop a hypothesis and experimental design, before generating new information, helping to progress your wider knowledge and understanding.
All full-time academic programmes at the RAU are constructed using a selection of modules, each of which requires engagement with a variety of learning activities.
Each module represents a value of 15 credits or multiples thereof.
Each 15-credit module represents a minimum of 150 hours of student learning, effort and assessment.
To achieve the award of BSc Honours in Wildlife and Countryside Management, a student must achieve a minimum of 120 credits.
For this BSc (Hons) Top Up course, your grade is calculated entirely on this course's modules.
If you’ve already secured employment, you may elect to follow the Improving Personal Professional Practice module thus reducing the time required to attend campus-based modules.
"The RAU was perfect for me.
I was able to take modules which were directly related to my current work as an Ecologist."
Martin Smith, Graduate
BSc (Hons) Wildlife and Countryside Management (Top-up) 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-bloodstock-equine-performance-management:
The equine industry in the UK is diverse and made up of many different sized businesses all of whom need graduates with a good knowledge of equine science and the equine industry, as well as core business skills.
So you could find yourself working in sectors including horse racing and bloodstock production, the sport horse sector including the Olympic disciplines.
Each of these areas of the equine industry are also served by a range of organisations providing goods and services ranging from event hospitality, animal health and welfare to animal feed and forage production.
So if you aspire to have a career in the thoroughbred or sports horse industry, our specialist Bloodstock and Equine Performance Management degree will give you the knowledge and learning experiences to prepare for careers in training, breeding and sales, racecourse and event management, and racing administration.
This unique programme has been designed to provide students with both equine science elements, based around our core strengths of nutrition, behaviour, physiology, health and welfare, and bloodstock industry elements to support both the products and services sides of the wider industry.
Industry experience is at the heart of this degree with a work placement in your second year, and visits to leading racing businesses in Lambourn, Newmarket and Ireland.
Our graduates have secured high profile positions in the racing industry, including organisations such as Godolphin, Juddmonte, The Jockey Club, Weatherbys and The National Trainers Federation, and you could join them.
This specialist course compares science and business practices to those within the sports horse industry, and equips you with the skills to step into the professional world.
There will be plentiful industry visits and industry leading guest speakers allowing you to learn from the best there is.
There will also be a study tour to Ireland to explore the Irish bloodstock industry as a comparison to the UK.
This route will incur an additional course supplement of £600 to cover the cost of the tour.
You will complete a 15-week work placement in the second year.
Students have completed placements at prestigious companies such as Highclere Stud, France Galop, Newsells Park Stud, Jockey Club Estates and Arena Racing Company.
If you wish to undertake an extended period of work there is the option to complete a year in the workplace.
The research project is an integral part of the course and provides essential experience in both design and execution of a piece of research.
You can choose to focus on either science or business and you could also see your Research Project featured in one of the many academic journals that regularly publish our students’ work.
This route will provide the skills to succeed as racehorse trainers, executives in racing governing bodies such as the British Horseracing Authority (BHA) and as bloodstock advisors/agents.
Other roles include:
"I looked at the website and I just thought that this looks incredible, the alumni have gone on to do so many amazing things."
Florentyna Anderson, Student
Required: GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications, one science based subject is highly recommended for this programme (Biology / Applied Science / Animal Science):
To find out more about these, please visit the bursaries, awards and scholarships page.
Associate Professor of Equine Science
BSc (Hons) Equine Science (Lincoln), CMI Diploma in Management and Leadership, PG Cert Teaching and Learning in Higher Education (UWE), PhD Veterinary medicine and science (Surrey), R.Anim.Sci
BSc (Hons) Bloodstock and Equine Performance Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-Bloodstock-equine-performance-foundation:
The Integrated Foundation Year is suitable for applicants who have taken level 3 qualifications (A-levels, BTEC etc.) in the UK.
Required: GCSE minimum five GCSEs at Grade C/4 including English Language and Mathematics (or Maths Numeracy for Welsh applicants) plus satisfactory level 3 qualifications, one science based subject is highly recommended for this programme (Biology / Applied Science / Animal Science):

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-equine-science-business:
Gain a solid grounding in both scientific and business skills and grasp the growing number of opportunities available through our network of industry contacts.
The equine industry generates huge amounts of revenue for some of the world’s major economies and is the second largest economy in the rural sector.
The industry is continually looking for bright, skilled graduates.
As well as benefitting from a blend of practical exercises and academic knowledge, you will gain essential experience with a work placement.
You will also tap into our powerful network of industry contacts, including graduates from the University.
No wonder our graduates have gone on to work at prestigious companies such as Plusvital Equinome, Haygain, Tattersalls and The National Trainers Federation.
You will complete a 15-week placement in the second year of the course.
Students have completed placements at companies such as Plusvital Equinome, Godolphin, Weatherbys, NAF and Haygain.
This is an excellent opportunity to develop a range of links within the growing equine industry.
The research project is an integral part of the course and provides essential experience in both design and execution of a piece of research.
You can choose to focus on either science or business and you could also see your research project featured in one of the many academic journals that regularly publish our students' work.
This programme will allow students who join the British Society of Animal Science (BSAS) to gain student accreditation on the Royal Society of Biology’s register of accredited animal scientists and technologists.
The accreditation will provide you with international recognition as an accredited animal scientist.
PLUS your choice of THREE electives selected from:
Disclaimer information
View our full disclaimer notice .
This programme will equip you for exciting graduate roles in the horse feed industry, in sporting governing bodies such as the British Equestrian Federation, or with emerging equine science companies such as Plusvital-Equinome.
BSc (Hons) Equine Science and Business 2025-25

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-equine-science-business-placement:
You can choose to focus on either science of business and you could also see your research project featured in one of the many academic journals that regularly publish our students' work.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-equine-science-business-foundation:
This route will equip you for exciting graduate roles in the horse feed industry, in sporting governing bodies such as the British Equestrian Federation, or with emerging equine science companies such as Plusvital-Equinome.
BSc (Hons) Equine Science and Business 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-equine-health-and-welfare-top-up:
If you are looking for a course that offers you real flexibility and advances your scientific, management skills in horse health and welfare, this course is for you.
Coming from a Foundation degree or HND background, you will be able to tailor your studies to develop skills including equine behaviour and welfare, and aspects of vetinary science applicable to the species.
This course is a springboard to further research or employment in the equine industry with careers in equine media, equine higher education or any number of avenues successfully pursued by our graduates.
You will benefit from lecturers who are experts in their fields and continue to produce vital research in topics such as horse nutrition, equine behaviour and gut health.
Guest speakers will give you industry insight.
Previous guests have included Tim Hadaway (Director of Games and Championships for the FEI) and Lucy Rees (prominent Horse Behaviour Researcher).
You will also take part in field visits to equine organisations such as Cheltenham Racecourse and the Blue Cross Rescue Centre.
The research project is an integral part of the course, the successful completion of which leads to the BSc (Hons) classification.
You can choose to focus on either science or business and you could also see your research project featured in one of the many prestigious academic journals that regularly publish our students’ work.
To achieve the award of BSc (Hons) in Equine Health and Welfare, a student must achieve a minimum of 120 credits.
Plus a choice of THREE electives from those listed below:
"I chose the RAU because I wanted to further my education in the equine industry.
The lecturers are well respected within the industry and have the relevant equine knowledge.
The RAU has brilliant reputation, also you are surrounded by friendly, hardworking and like-minded students.
In the future I would love to work in the equine welfare industry."
Lily Thomas, Student
BSc (Hons) Equine Health and Welfare (Top-up) 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-real-estate:
This honours degree course gives you the opportunity to examine the complexities of the market for the following sectors: commercial, residential, industrial, leisure, and rural property, both in the UK and overseas.
The UK, Singapore, Dubai, Brussels and Hong Kong are just some of the destinations where graduates of this course have gone on to work, in both town and urban environments.
Whether you wish to pursue a career in commercial, residential, or industrial property our Real Estate degree will develop your technical and professional skills, networks and confidence.
Graduates have fulfilled roles at prestigious companies such as Knight Frank, JLL, CBRE, Deloitte Real Estate, Dalcour Maclaren, Savills, the Valuation Office  Agency, and many more.
Accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), this course is the ideal launch pad into the professional world of real estate or other sectors depending on your career aspirations.
You will learn about acquisitions, sales, commercial lettings, development and management of property interests and investments, town and country planning and building construction.
If you are interested in finding out more about the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), they have produced this short video highlighting their work.
You will complete a minimum of 70 hours of work experience as an assessed part of your course.
Our Careers Team run a careers fair each year, providing an opportunity for you to meet potential employers, There is also an option of a full placement year.
Modules are divided into three streams: Property, Land Use and Development and Business.
You will learn through lectures, smaller group tutorials, visiting lecturers from professional practice, practical sessions, study visits and real-life case studies as well as completing a Research Project in a subject area of specific interest.
A part-time or distance learning route to study is available.
In the third year, you will complete a research dissertation on a subject of your choosing, and select two elective modules to suit your specialist areas of interest.
Plus a choice of TWO electives selected from a broad range, including:
Recent graduates have gone on to fulfil jobs within a range of companies:
You will gain the knowledge, understanding and skills to practice within the following sectors:
"The course opens many opportunities within both the urban and rural property industry, and once you have a degree many more employment opportunities are made available, even if you decide to go into another industry post-graduation."
Daniella Sowden, Graduate
Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Tier 4 Child/General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
Staff Governor / Senior Lecturer and Head of Employability and Professional Engagement.
MRICS, FAAV, FHEA, PGCAP, PGCMR
BSc (Hons) Real Estate 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-real-estate-placement-year:
If you are interested in finding out more about the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), they have produced this short video highlighting their work.
Our Careers Team run a careers fair each year, providing an opportunity for you to meet potential employers.
You will learn through lectures, smaller group tutorials, visiting lecturers from industry, practical sessions, study visits and real-life case studies as well as completing a Research Project in a subject area of specific interest.
The course is also flexible and it is possible to transfer on to the Rural Land Management degree at the end of the first year, and occasionally, at the end of the second year.
You will undertake your placement year during year three of your programme.
In the final year, you will complete a research dissertation on a subject of your choosing, and select two elective modules to suit your specialist areas of interest.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-real-estate-foundation-year:
The UK, Singapore, Dubai, Brussels and Hong Kong are just some of the destinations where graduates of this course have gone on to work, in  both town and urban environments.
In your third year you will complete a minimum of 70 hours of work experience as an assessed part of your course.
Our Careers Team run a careers fair each year, providing an opportunity for you to meet potential employers, there is also an option of a full placement year.
You will learn through lectures, smaller group tutorials, visiting lecturers from industry, practical sessions, study visits and real-life case studies as well as completing a research project in a subject area of specific interest.
The course is also flexible and it is possible to transfer on to the Rural Land Management degree at the end of the second year, and occasionally, at the end of the third year.
A part-time or distance learning route to study is available.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-rural-land-management:
This course offers proven routes to rewarding careers within rural business, estate management, consultancy and property in the countryside.
Bidwells, Strutt and Parker, Carter Jonas, Dalcour Maclaren, Savills, Fisher German and Brown&Co are some of the nationally recognised businesses our graduates have gone on to work for – and so could you.
Accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , you will learn the fundamentals of rural professional practice as well as planning and development, law, valuation, building construction and management.
You will develop an essential understanding of sustainability and wider business management to enable you to provide effective advice about farm, estate and other rural businesses while gaining an overall understanding of the multi-functionality of rural practice.
This degree is the ideal launch pad into the world of rural land management, or other sectors, depending on your career aspirations, and you can gain some additional real-world experience and carve your first steps into your future career through the work placement.
Typically, graduates enter employment in rural practice surveying to undertake the two-year Assessment of Professional Competence (APC) and qualify as chartered surveyors.
Many graduates also seek qualification as Fellows of the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers (CAAV) at the same time as completing the APC.
During your time here, you can enjoy the benefits of a student membership of both RICS and CAAV.
If you are interested in finding out more about the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), they have produced this short video highlighting their work.
Our Careers Team run a careers fair each year, providing you with an opportunity to meet with potential employers.
There is also an option of a full placement year.
Many of our students are also recognised as the future of the industry.
Hear from Grace Gardiner, finalist in the South West Women in Property Student Awards 2020, talking about sustainability in land management.
Modules are assessed through a range of coursework, often based on real-life case studies and sponsored by land management firms, which help you to see the practical application of the subjects you are studying.
In your third year, case studies are supplied by practising surveyors from their own portfolios of work.
You will complete a research project in a subject area of specific interest.
The course is also flexible and it is possible to transfer on to the Real Estate degree if certain conditions are met.
A part-time learning route to study is available.
Full time students normally take modules worth 60 credits per 15 week semester but this can vary depend on your elective choice.
Part time students taking proportionally fewer credits per semester.
Your overall grade for your degree is based on marks obtained for modules taken at level 5 and level 6 (weighted 30:70 accordingly.)
In the first year, you will develop an understanding of agriculture and rural land use.
You will be introduced to core property studies in law, valuation and building construction, and gain an understanding of economics, accounting and finance.
Plus a choice of TWO electives selected from a broad range, including:
In the last two years, the main property employers of Rural Land Management graduates have been:
Bagshaws, Balfours, Batcheller Monkhouse, Bell Ingram, Bidwells, Brown & Co, Bruton Knowles, Buccleuch Estates, Carter Jonas, Cheffins, CKD Galbraith, CLA, Colliers International, Cooper & Tanner, Dalcour Maclaren, Duchy of Cornwall, Fenn Wright, Fisher German, Fisher German Preistner, George F White, Godfrey Payton, Halls, Hinson Parry & Co, Hobbs, Parker Kivells, Knight Frank, Lambert & Foster, Maxey Grounds & Co, Moore Allen & Innocent, National Trust, PJSA Chartered Surveyors, RH & RW Clutton, Rendells, Savills, Stags, Strutt and Parker, Staffordshire County Council, Symonds & Sampson, Taylor & Fletcher, United Utilities Water, Valuation Office Agency, Webb Paton, Whirledge & Nott, Wright Manley.
"The course gave me a solid understanding of the theoretical knowledge I require to work professionally in the industry.
Following from my summer placement, I secured a graduate job as a Rural Surveyor and am working on some fantastic rural estates."
Lucy Rowton-Lee, Graduate
BSc (Hons) Rural Land Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-rural-land-management-placement-year:
Our Careers Team also run a careers fair each year, providing you with an opportunity to meet with potential employers
You will undertake your placement year during yeah three of your programme.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-rural-land-management-foundation-year:
Modules are assessed through a range of coursework, often based on real-life case studies and sponsored by land management firms, which help you to see the practical application of the subjects you are studying.
In your final year, case studies are supplied by practising surveyors from their own portfolios of work.
RICS Competencies Spreadsheet - RLM

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/open-days-and-events/undergraduate-open-days-and-events:
Join us to discover the range of courses on offer, speak with staff and students and ask any questions.
To book an event, please select the event you wish to attend below.
Find out what to expect at the different events by clicking on the links below the table.
If you’d like to arrange a visit to the RAU campus, please book your place on one of the dates above or contact us directly at opendays@rau.ac.uk .
If you are struggling with the cost of attending undergraduate open days, offer holder days, summer schools or taster days at the RAU's main campus you may be eligible for reimbursement of reasonable travel costs for yourself and up to two additional guests.
Our introduction to the RAU webinars provide an overview of the University.
The online events will include a presentation about our courses, accommodation and campus followed by a live Q&A where you will have the opportunity to ask questions to staff from our Admissions and International teams, as well as a student ambassador.
Our undergraduate open days and undergraduate open afternoons give you the opportunity to hear about our courses first hand from teaching staff and look around our beautiful campus.
The events will begin with welcome and course talks, and then you can join campus tours and an informal Q&A session.
During the Q&A you can meet teaching staff and representatives from our accommodation, finance, admissions and student services teams.
There will also be an optional visit to a nearby farm used by our students or RAU Equestrian Centre .
If you are looking for more information about our postgraduate events please visit this page .
We regularly run campus tours where you will have the opportunity to see our beautiful campus and find out more about the University.
The tours, led by a student ambassador, will visit University buildings and facilities including the library and student hub.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/farm-partners/rau-equestrian-centre:
A transcript of the video can be found here.
Our aim is to provide competitively priced livery packages ranging from DIY to full, with the option to purchase additional services as and when required.
We provide ample year-round turnout which sets us apart from the vast majority of university run livery facilities.
The stables are set out in eight barns ranging in size from three to 31 stables.
The barns have been designed to allow good undercover working conditions and are light and airy with secure tack rooms.
There are 58 paddocks fenced with electric rope; all have mains fed water troughs.
There is a 30 x 60m enclosed floodlit outdoor arena with an excellent Martin Collins surface which is used by livery clients and also for clinics run by external trainers.
A 990 x 5m all-weather circular exercise track and a horse walker are also available and there is excellent off-road hacking.
There is ample parking for cars, trailers and lorries.
The RAU Equestrian Centre has always helped run scientific projects for both commercial companies and students.
Research focuses on observational and non-invasive studies in nutrition, parasitology, behaviour and welfare.
Each year, a number of students use the facilities, such as the canter track (shown below) for their final year and master’s dissertation projects.
Students also benefit from using the equestrian centre for practical equine lectures and demonstrations.
In September 2021, the facilities at the Equestrian Centre were inspected by The British Horse Society and judged as highly commended in six categories and approved in one category.
More details on The BHS site .
The Equestrian Centre, Coates, Cirencester, GL7 6NX
RAU Equestrian Centre
Follow us on social media:
Facebook
Instagram

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-open-days-and-virtual-events:
Our virtual course introduction events focus on each postgraduate course; with a presentation giving a thorough overview of the course content, benefits and career prospects hosted by the programme manager.
This is followed by a live Q&A, giving you opportunity to ask any questions you have about the course, how to apply, or any aspects of university life.
If you have any course-specific questions you are very welcome to contact the programme manager (whose details can be found on our course pages) directly, who will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
If you’d like to arrange a visit to the RAU's Cirencester or Swindon campuses, please book contact us directly at opendays@rau.ac.uk where we will be happy to look to arrange a bespoke visit where possible.
Our tours are a great opportunity for you to visit us in the Cotswolds and explore our beautiful campus.
They are suitable for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate prospective students.
You will be guided by a student ambassador or staff member and will explore the University campus grounds, as well as having the opportunity to ask any questions you may have.
Please note: this is not an open day, and is a much smaller scale event.
The tour does not include viewing inside accommodation blocks or meeting academic staff.
At the RAU, we are committed to creating a stimulating, innovative environment in which to pioneer new modes of thought and explanation which will directly impact on the sector.
We pride ourselves on our links with industry and our courses are designed to meet the demands of the employment market for land-based expertise, both in the UK and worldwide.
Many former students have gone on to perform at the highest levels across a broad range of careers.
There are numerous options to choose from; whether that be leading innovation and change in the land management, farming, agri-food or equine industries, informing future land-based policy or setting up businesses.
The reach and influence of the RAU alumni network worldwide is extraordinary.
Set in the beautiful Cotswold countryside, our small size provides a real sense of community amongst students and staff, which supports, develops and encourages postgraduates from all backgrounds to achieve their ambitions.
If you’d like to arrange a visit to the RAU campus, please book your place on one of the dates above or contact us directly at opendays@rau.ac.uk where we will be happy to look to arrange a bespoke visit where possible.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/applying-to-the-rau-for-postgraduate-courses:
Please apply via our website, using the online application form.
Go to the webpage of the particular course you are interested in and press the ‘Apply’ button.
This will also give you some supporting information about the application process.
Alternatively, if you are unable to access the online form you can call Admissions on 01285 889912, or  email admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Applications are welcome at any time during the year (with the main application period being between November and May) however it is recommended that you apply as early as possible.
We aim to make decisions on applications within two weeks of having received all required documents.
As part of the online application, you will be asked to:
If your Bachelor's degree is not from a UK or a majority English speaking country (excluding Canada) or if you are not a national of a majority-English speaking country, then you will need to provide evidence of your English language proficiency.
The UK has left the EU and the Government has changed immigration requirements, applicants from EU countries may need to obtain a visa to study in the UK from January 2021.
Studying for a postgraduate qualification is an extension of your previous university experience.
Many of the same study methods still apply as a postgraduate student, however expectations around your performance and levels of independence are increased.
It is therefore important that you prepare both mentally and practically for your postgraduate course well in advance of starting.
As with all of our academic programmes we are committed to developing you as a person in order to give you the very best opportunities for employment.
We therefore pay as much attention to your transferable skills development as we do your subject knowledge.
We have identified six key attributes that we believe make our postgraduates stand out from all the others:
All of our academic activities are therefore geared around the development of your knowledge, intellectual skills and attributes so that you can adapt and grow to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
Below are a few pointers to get you started on your postgraduate journey.
The Higher Education academic calendar is shorter than most school and college years, being just 28 weeks of timetabled contact time, split across two semesters.
Each semester includes an examinations/assessments and feedback period at the end of each one.
If you are studying for a Masters qualification you will follow this academic calendar for the taught elements and then go on to complete the dissertation element over the summer months, handing in at the end of September.
A Masters programme, therefore, takes a full calendar year to complete.
Whilst most postgraduate courses start in September, for some programmes there is an option of starting in January and completing in January of the following year.
If this is an option for your chosen course it will be identified on the course information pages and discussed at open day.
The welcome and induction week is for first-year students and takes place the week prior to Week 1 (sometimes referred to as ‘Week 0’).
Alongside the Students' Union we have organised a range of daytime and evening activities designed to help new students settle in, find their way around campus, become familiar with key members of the teaching team and Support Services and make friends.
You will be given full details about your induction week and timetables prior to your arrival.
Pre-sessional activities may well be held for a number of courses and you will be notified of this during the application process.
They are usually there to ensure that your chosen programme of study is right for you, to bridge any knowledge gaps and to help you acclimatise to the UK university system.
During your undergraduate degree you probably became familiar with many of the methods of delivery and study that we expect you to continue with during your postgraduate course.
It is expected that you come equipped with the basics in academic study, such as the ability to find, evaluate, manage, present and critique research or industry relevant output.
There is a greater emphasis on independence and individual contribution towards the topics covered, and so the expectation is that students will actively participate in class-based activities from the outset.
Giving presentations, critiquing case studies, using peer-to-peer feedback, working in groups on topical problems and justifying opinions based on the evidence is the norm for postgraduate study.
It is not uncommon for students to arrive at a particular postgraduate qualification with very diverse backgrounds, qualifications and experience, and we welcome these different perspectives in the classroom to bring a debate alive, however, it does require the student to take responsibility for their own subject knowledge gaps and motivate themselves to fill them.
Of course, there will be support and guidance provided for good sources of information, however it is not expected that these gaps will be specifically addressed within the taught sessions.
For most postgraduate programmes, group sizes range between 20 – 100 students depending on the course and electives chosen (if relevant).
However, alongside the lectures are small group seminars and tutorials where you will have the opportunity to explore key concepts in more detail, discuss topical issues relating to the key themes and undertake practical activities that help set the theories in context.
To complement the lectures and seminars, there may also be practical sessions, laboratory classes, off-site visits, case studies, guest speakers and field trips that are included in your timetabled activities, depending on the modules you are studying.
Part of the reason for studying at postgraduate degree level is so that you are equipped with the knowledge and skills for your career.
It is crucial for you to monitor and evaluate your own progress, take responsibility for your own learning and work collaboratively to solve problems.
Postgraduate programmes help you develop these skills.
Students and lecturers are on a truly collaborative journey as you move through your course and it is only fully effective if both parties are genuinely engaged.
Whilst there may be room in your schedule for other activities, the time in between lectures is there for you to work on assignments, group activities, prepare for lectures and seminars and deepen your understanding of the subject.
For every one timetabled hour, it is anticipated that on average two further hours are spent studying, so make sure you plan your priorities and use this time wisely.
Of course there are many other things competing for your time and energy, and we want you to become involved with the social side of university life, but make sure this is not at the expense of your place at university.
For every piece of coursework you carry out you will receive constructive feedback not only on the knowledge and understanding of your subject but also how well you have demonstrated the skills and abilities that we are looking for in our postgraduates.
These summative assessments contribute towards your final module mark, which in turn contributes towards your end of year mark.
Your feedback is provided online, so that you have a permanent record, which is important because when you carry out your next piece of coursework we will expect you to use your feedback to improve.
It’s important that you understand the feedback you have been given and ask questions to help develop your understanding.
Feedback on these activities is usually continual and in a whole variety of forms – it may come from your peer group, question and answer sessions, one-to-one tutorials, exercises set in class or as a result of practising a skill and testing your abilities.
Meeting with your personal tutor offers the chance to talk through any issues, and may be all it takes to find a resolution for any challenges you are facing, but if necessary they are also able to guide you towards more specialist services.
Student Services encompass a whole host of personal, financial, health and well-being resources that can offer advice and support during your time at the RAU.
Click here for useful information

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/postgraduate-bursaries-awards-and-scholarships:
Sir Emrys Jones Memorial Trust award
PhD students could be awarded a higher amount
Find out more information about a Postgraduate Master's Loan and Postgraduate Doctoral Loan .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/postgraduate-fees-and-funding:
There are many forms of financial support on offer for our prospective postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/graduate-diploma-in-agriculture:
This intensive course in agriculture is unique to the Royal Agricultural University and provides an opportunity for graduates or professionals in other disciplines to re-direct their careers towards agricultural and associated rural industries.
This is a unique opportunity to create your own bespoke, agriculture focussed, course in a way that will help you realise your ambitions, whether you are a student who has already graduated or a professional with plans to advance your career in the rural industries.
Not only will you gain a detailed understanding of the UK agricultural industry, you will be given practical rural skills training.
It is likely that you will have already acquired elsewhere a range of intellectual and transferable skills.
However, this programme enables you to:
While many graduates find work as farm managers, farm assurance scheme officers and agricultural consultants, to name a few, others wish to progress onto a Masters course.
Read more about the farms that we learn from.
You will complete four compulsory modules, followed by four modules selected from a wide range of undergraduate modules allowing you to tailor the course to meet your career aspirations.
As well as lectures, farm walks and visits, you will work on case studies, assignments, and management projects.
Prospective students are strongly encouraged to complete pre-course reading in order to secure a minimum basic knowledge of agriculture and to highlight possible areas of weakness.
Here at the RAU we are always looking for ways to better support our students.
We recognise that a number of our students may be working or have caring responsibilities alongside studying which can sometimes make it difficult to attend every teaching session in person.
As such we have the ability for you to join lectures and seminars through an alternative digital format in prior discussion with your programme leader.
Please note that for international students on a student visa you are expected to attend your classes in person.
Remote delivery is not an UKVI authorised mode of attendance for the taught element of your course and therefore non-attendance would affect your student visa.
The in-person teaching sessions and study tour visit for core modules, for both full time and part time students, are timetabled on a Tuesday each week for the full year (both semesters).
This allows you to fulfil other commitments you may have, such as work, family and interests.
The modules available for this course are shown below.
Students must then select four further level 6/7 modules from the selection below:
"We need to change our food and farming systems in the face of climate change.
The GDA programme at the RAU is a perfect opportunity to embark on a career in this space.
It is a fascinating, intense and immersive experience."
Brad Currin, Student
The Graduate Diploma in Agriculture comprises a programme of study that requires graduate (Honours Degree) level entry or its equivalent, and has learning outcomes that match qualifications at Honours degree level.
As a result, the programme is affected by the UK Governments’ policy on Equivalent and Lower Qualifications [ELQ] whereby such students are not eligible for funding support through the Higher Education Funding Council for England.
Candidates will normally have a first degree from a discipline other than agriculture, awarded at 2:2 or above.
Equivalent overseas and other UK qualifications may be accepted at the discretion of the University.
Applicants of 25 years and over may seek admission on the basis of a curriculum vitae, but evidence of ability to study at degree level, such as proven managerial level experience, is essential.
A period of relevant practical work experience within the agricultural industry is recommended as a means of enhancing understanding of the industry and the relevance of specific modules towards future career goals, but is not a prerequisite of joining the programme.
English language requirements for international students .
Students may enter practical farming after completing the programme, although it should be noted that proven practical farming abilities may be required by some employers prior to engaging in direct production agriculture.
** Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student Visa/Tier 4 General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
For full details, please visit the fees and funding webpage .
The University offers a range of generous fee waivers and bursaries.
To find out more about the scholarships, awards and bursaries available, please visit the scholarships webpage .
Graduate Diploma in Agriculture 2025-26
Summary of modules for this course .
Senior Lecturer in Animal Health & Welfare
BVSc PhD MRCVS
To apply for a postgraduate course you need to complete an online application form.
This can be found by selecting your preferred course option at the bottom of this box.
Alternatively, if you cannot access the online form please call Admissions on 01285 889912, or email admissions@rau.ac.uk.
We recommend you keep a copy of the completed form for your records.
Application deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants must submit their application by 30 June 2025 UK applicants must submit their applications by 1 September 2025 Results deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 1 August 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 15 September 2025 Applicants will be notified via email once a decision has been made and decision letters will be emailed to you.
If there is a deadline by which applicants must accept an offer of admission or pay a deposit, this will be stated in the offer letter.
Requests to defer the year of entry will be considered only when an applicant holds an Unconditional offer and needs to be submitted in writing to the admissions team.
We cannot guarantee that requests will be granted.
Decisions on deferral requests are considered: For September entry at the end of August If the deferral request is granted applicants will receive a new offer letter with tuition fees which are applicable to their year of entry, at the opening of the next admissions cycle.
Application deadline, September entry:
Results deadline, September entry:
Applicants will be notified via email once a decision has been made and decision letters will be emailed to you.
Decisions on deferral requests are considered:
If the deferral request is granted applicants will receive a new offer letter with tuition fees which are applicable to their year of entry, at the opening of the next admissions cycle.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-agricultural-technology-and-innovation:
With the unfolding of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), artificial intelligence (AI), analytics, connected sensors, Internet of Things (IoT), biotechnology and other technologies are being leveraged to keep agriculture sustainable.
This programme will equip students with theoretical background combined with business management, to come up with disruptive, sustainable and ground-breaking innovations.
Graduates are likely to start their own businesses, become consultants, work in the agriculture industry or, work for the government as advisors or policy makers.
Developments in sensors, robotics, automation, analytics and telematics are enabling new and sophisticated ways of managing agricultural practices.
You will gain a comprehensive appreciation of the wide range of new and innovative technologies in the areas of crop production, livestock production, and management of the natural environment, whilst also learning about entrepreneurship and business management.
A globally recognised centre for excellence with on-campus facilities, leading specialists and industry connections – there is no better choice than the RAU if you seek to make an impact on the future of agriculture.
Mechanisation and data capture are becoming increasingly important in the production and management of animals, crops and the natural environment.
For anyone wishing to start a career in this emerging industry, or for the entrepreneurial among you, this course will help you discover all that you need to know to succeed.
Students are given free access to the University's Farm491 facility, an agritech business incubator which provides support to agritech businesses for the promotion of technology and innovation within the sector.
A period of independent study provides an opportunity to engage with sector specialists in a professional capacity.
Students also have the opportunity to complete a professional placement following the taught element of the course.
The video transcript is available here
The in-person teaching sessions are timetabled on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays each week for the full year (both semesters) which allows you to fulfil other commitments you may have, such as work, family and interests.
Modules are assessed primarily by coursework.
If you are interested in studying this subject but cannot commit to the full MSc programme it is also possible to study for a Certificate or Diploma in the subject.
The PgCert - or Postgraduate Certificate - is the shortest of our Masters level offerings, which is completed by studying four modules (60 credits).
It allows you to study a specific area of the course in depth but takes less time to complete than the MSc or PgDip.
The PgCert is a great way of fitting postgraduate study around a busy life.
Full-time students can complete the course in as little as one year.
Part-time students can choose to spread the course up to two years, giving you lots of time for thinking and writing between modules.
It is ideal if you want to study a specific subject but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
It can be a great way into a career in a new industry but if you desire to continue your studies, PgCert credits can be used to contribute towards a PgDip or even an MSc qualification later down the line.
Completing studies using this route is often likened to building blocks – one step at a time – the first step being a PgCert.
Please note that overseas applicants who require a student visa cannot be considered for this course as the weekly contact hours do not meet the UKVI threshold for a full-time Student visa.
The PgDip - or Postgraduate Diploma – is a level 7 course that sits between the PgCert and the full MSc.
It allows you to study a subject in depth but without undertaking the Dissertation element.
Consequently, it takes substantially less time to complete than the MSc, while still covering the same taught elements.
To complete this qualification, you will take eight modules (120 credits).
Full-time students can complete the course in as little as two semesters (one year).
Part-time students can choose to spread the course over up to two years, giving you lots of time for thinking and writing between modules.
It is ideal for students who want to study a specific subject but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PgDip can be a great way to boost your career, or enter a new industry.
We recognise that life can be unpredictable so the PgDip is built to be as flexible as possible.
Should you desire to continue your studies, PgDip credits can be used to contribute towards an MSc qualification later down the line.
Conversely, if you need to cut your studies short for any reason, it is also possible to convert the PgDip to a PgCert after the completion of four modules.
Please note, Visa students must be full-time (a min of 15 hours per week) and will need to attend all sessions in person due to UKVI visa requirements.
PLUS a choice of TWO electives from:
Potential job opportunities include:
"I have thoroughly enjoyed every minute of my time at the RAU.
Despite having only studied here for a year, I felt fully incorporated into the community.
One of  my favourite highlights was the workshop held by RAU and the Tropical Agriculture Association (TAA), which was headed by Dr Patricia Mathabe.
I was able to speak about my research project in front of an audience and receive feedback from extremely experienced, knowledgeable, and informed individuals."
Surawoot Tanasen, Graduate
We welcome applications from applicants with non-standard qualifications who are able to demonstrate knowledge, experience and skills developed in the workplace or elsewhere and which are relevant to the programme of study.
Applicants will need to use their personal statement to provide further details supported by a CV.
All non-standard applications will be considered by the Programme Manager on a case-by-case basis and applicants can expect that an interview may be required as part of the admissions process.
If English is not your first language, you will need to reach the requirements outlined in our English language requirements for the level of study.
For postgraduate taught programmes this is IELTS Academic min.
overall 6.5 with no element below 5.5 (or equivalent).
English language tests usually have a validity of 2 years from the date the test is taken.
Offers will typically be made in line with the academic requirements set out above.
Offers can be conditional or unconditional.
An unconditional offer will be made to applicants who have already met the conditions and provided evidence that conditions have been met.
Where academic or language requirements have not yet been fulfilled, applicants will receive a conditional offer stating the requirements that must be met.
For the academic year 2025-26 the tuition fees for the MSc are:
For the academic year 2025-26 the tuition fees for the PgDip are:
For the academic year 2025-26 the tuition fees for the PgCert are:
Tuition fees may be subject to an inflationary increase each year as set out in our Access and Participation Plan.
Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student Visa/Tier 4 General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
Senior Lecturer in Agricultural Technology.
PhD (Montana State University), MPhil (University of Cambridge), BTech (Vaal University of Technology)
MSc Agricultural Technology and Innovation September entry 2025-26
Important Information for EU and Overseas applicants for PgDip: EU and Overseas applicants who wish to apply for the PgDip programme, and need a UK study visa to do so, should be aware that upon completion of their study they will not be eligible to apply for a Graduate Route visa.
Important Information for EU and Overseas applicants for PgCert: The PgCert programme is equivalent to part-time study for UKVI student visa purposes.
Please note that the University only sponsors full-time PgDip and MSc level students.
EU and Overseas students who hold another UK immigration status/visa can be considered for the PgCert provided their visa/status allows study at the time of application and covers the entire period of study.
Application deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants must submit their application by 30 June 2025 UK applicants must submit their applications by 1 September 2025 Results deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 1 August 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 15 September 2025 Application deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants requiring a study visa should submit their application by 1 December 2025 at the latest, applications received after this may be considered for September entry UK applicants should aim to submit their applications the latest by 5 January 2026 Results deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 8 December 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 7 January 2026 If you are applying for a 2025 Chevening Scholarship you can submit your scholarship application prior to receiving a course offer.
Further details can be found on the application timeline and eligibility criteria sections on the Chevening website.
Decisions on deferral requests are considered: For September entry at the end of August For January entry at the end of January (or later) If the deferral request is granted applicants will receive a new offer letter with tuition fees which are applicable to their year of entry, at the opening of the next admissions cycle.
Please choose a course from the options below to apply.
Application deadline, January entry:
Results deadline, January entry:
If you are applying for a 2025 Chevening Scholarship you can submit your scholarship application prior to receiving a course offer.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-agroecology:
The MSc in Agroecology draws on our extensive expertise in combining academic and applied learning to support you to be well-informed, skilled, and confident in contributing to the development of resilient agroecosystems.
Our network of professional links and affiliations with agricultural, land-based and environmental initiatives both in the UK and abroad ensures that you gain breadth and depth in your studies, agroecological experience, and research.
Agroecology is gaining increased attention today for its contributions to farm and food systems, to social innovation, and to research.
Agroecology supports the development of resilient food ecosystems.
It does so by drawing on science, social studies, and ecological principles to foster synergies between plants, animals, humans and the wider environment.
Central to agroecological initiatives is that they are economically viable, that they support human and social values, and that they are ecologically responsible.
The integration of these three domains requires interdisciplinary thinking, observation, innovation, and contextual application.
The MSc Agroecology covers the fundamentals of Agroecology, including its ecological approach to developing and maintaining resilient food systems.
You will access and learn from the RAU’s wide network of local and national business links, farms, social enterprises and food system innovators through seminars, site visits and placements.
You will study Agroecology on a campus that has, since its inception 180 years ago, been guided by the founding purpose of ‘caring for the land’ and be taught by lecturers with a breadth of experience in teaching, professional practice, and research.
There will be the opportunity to blend on-campus study with site-based experience ensuring that there is a tight link between theory and practice.
Your professional competencies will be developed through dedicated modules which support you in the development of skills and competencies for future – or ongoing – work in the agriculture and environmental sectors.
These will include studies in agroecological principles and practices, the role of agroecologically-oriented farm advisors, how farming and land management can make the transition to becoming more agroecological as well as how to contribute to the ecology of the whole food system through policy, practice, and social enterprise.
This course is delivered in partnership with The Farming and Wildlife Advisory Group.
A transcript of the course video can be found here .
You will gain a broader understanding of relevant issues through knowledge acquisition, intellectual enquiry, debate, and team/individual research.
In addition to lectures, you will participate in case studies, seminars and management projects.
This approach fosters teamwork and complements individual study and student learning.
The in-person teaching sessions will be timetabled on set days so that you can fulfil other commitments you may have, such as work, family and interests.
For part-time students the module sessions are timetabled with fewer days a week.
Please note that this type of study participation is only available to registered UK based students due to UKVI visa restrictions.
Plus a choice of TWO elective modules:
The skills gained throughout the programme will set you up to work in the following areas:
English language tests usually have a validity of two years from the date the test is taken.
Senior Lecturer in Sustainable Land Management
Programme Leader - Environment, Food and Society
Programme Leader MSc Agroecology
BA, PGCAP, MEd, FHEA, EdD
MSc Agroecology 2025-26
Important Information for EU and Overseas applicants for PgDip: EU and Overseas applicants who wish to apply for the PgDip programme, and need a UK study visa to do so, should be aware that upon completion of their study they will not be eligible to apply for a Graduate Route visa.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-sustainable-agriculture-and-food-security:
This course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills needed by governments, NGOs, commercial companies, and farms as they respond to some of today's biggest challenges within the agriculture and food sectors.
You will delve into critical issues such as the human exploitation of the Earth’s resources, poverty alleviation and food security, and the ethical and cultural implications of policy development.
You will study five core modules covering understanding and improving agricultural and food supply systems.
You can then select three electives to enable further specialisation including crops, livestock, management, and different system approaches.
Practical exercises which are embedded into your study will prepare you for a successful career including preparing tenders, presentations, and group assignments.
This programme attracts students from around the globe.
This is a key part of the study experience; working on a range of tasks using examples from around the world and drawing on each other's knowledge and experiences.
You will gain skills including critical analysis, open-mindedness, and reflection as well as technical knowledge.
If you are driven by a desire to shape public and political attitudes, this is the ideal environment in which to develop a strategic and operational mind-set in a way that will expand your own opinions and those of global decision-makers.
Our renowned lecturers and researchers will guide you through theoretical study and practical exercises that will prepare you for a successful career in a wide range of organisations.
Transcript of the below video can be accessed here
The in-person teaching sessions are timetabled on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, with core modules mainly on Tuesdays and Thursdays each week.
This means your presence on campus would depend on a combination of your elective modules and core modules each semester.
This scheduling allows you to fulfil other commitments you may have, such as work, family and interests.
PLUS a choice of THREE elective modules (all modules 15 credits each):
"Every module was a new adventure, taking us from our familiar UK landscape right across the world.
Led by academics who were extremely knowledgeable and very often leaders in their field, it was also packed with opportunities for independent research and problem solving.
I cannot recommend this course more highly.
Life changing."
Iris McCormick, Graduate
Senior Lecturer in International Rural Development.
MSc Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security September start 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgdip-agri-tech-innovation:
If you are interested in studying Agriculture but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Diploma (PgDip) may be the route for you.
It is designed to give learners a broad and thorough grounding in the sector to pursue a variety of careers.
*Please note, Visa students must be full-time (a min of 15 hours per week) and will need to attend all sessions in person due to UKVI visa requirements.
Our PgDip is designed to be ultra-accessible.
All classes are offered both in person and synchronously online, with session recordings available for students unable to attend a particular session.
Timetables are normally available one month before registration.
It also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at MSc level.
*Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student Visa/Tier 4 General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
Please check your Visa eligibility before applying .
MSc Agricultural Technology and Innovation (September 2025 entry)
Application deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants must submit their application by 30 June 2025 UK applicants must submit their applications by 1 September 2025 Results deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 1 August 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 15 September 2025 Application deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants requiring a study visa should submit their application by 1 December 2025 at the latest, applications received after this may be considered for September entry UK applicants should aim to submit their applications the latest by 5 January 2026 Results deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 8 December 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 7 January 2026 Applicants will be notified via email once a decision has been made and decision letters will be emailed to you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgdip-agroecology:
The course in Agroecology draws on our extensive expertise in combining academic and applied learning to support you to be well-informed, skilled, and confident in contributing to the development of resilient agroecosystems.
If you are interested in studying Agroecology but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Diploma (PgDip) may be the route for you.
Diploma in Agroecology 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgdip-safs:
MSc Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (September 2025 entry)

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-regenerative-farming:
The programme draws on our extensive expertise in combining academic and applied learning to support you to be well-informed, skilled, and confident in contributing to the development of resilient agroecosystems.
Our network of professional links and affiliations with agricultural, land-based and environmental initiatives both in the UK and abroad ensures that you gain breadth and depth in your studies and agroecological experience.
If you are interested in studying Agroecology but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Certificate (PgCert) may be the route for you.
The PgCert - or Postgraduate Certificate – is the shortest of our Postgraduate level offerings, which is completed by studying four modules (60 credits).
It allows you to study business skills in depth but takes less time to complete than the MSc or Postgraduate Diploma.
It can be a great way to boost your career or enter a new industry, but if you desire to continue your studies PgCert credits can be used to contribute towards a PgDip or even an MSc qualification later down the line.
*Please note that overseas applicants who require a student visa cannot be considered for this course as the weekly contact hours do not meet the UKVI threshold for a full-time Student visa.
Our PgCert is designed to be ultra-accessible.
It also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at PGDip or MSc level.
Certificate in Regenerative Farming 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-agritech-and-innovation:
If you are interested in studying Agriculture but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Certificate (PgCert) may be the route for you.
It also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at Diploma or MSc level.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-business-management:
This degree allows you to focus solely on general business, or to select optional modules in farm management, international marketing, agriculture, or climate and natural resource management to contextualise your studies in a sector of your choice.
The business world is complex, fast-moving and exciting, and demands high-calibre employees with strong management, marketing and financial skills.
The ability to manage change, risk and people, and to develop sustainable business strategies is crucial.
If you wish to develop your own enterprise then creative and entrepreneurial skills are needed too.
The MSc Business Management programme provides students with an academically rigorous and professionally relevant education that will serve your career needs.
The degree combines essential management knowledge with relevant practical and professional skills to prepare you for the challenging business world.
In addition to gaining a solid business foundation, you have the option of focusing on pure business management modules or embedding your studies in a rural context by drawing on our portfolio of elective modules from agricultural, environment, agri-food, land-based disciplines.
Students select three electives from a range available.
To indicate the scope and scale of what is available, we provide the following examples:
This course is run by academics and practitioners who understand global best practice within their specialism.
You will gain real-world experience from guest speakers working in the industry, and from assessments based on real problems.
UN Sustainable Development Goals: This programme has now been designed to foster greater knowledge and awareness of the UN Sustainable Development Goals .
These goals are mapped to our modules to ensure that at each stage of the programme we are identifying how these goals can be developed as part of business strategy and managed within a business.
This is a dual qualification.
Upon successful completion of the degree you will be awarded membership and a Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership from the Chartered Management Institute, further enhancing your CV.
You will study nine modules in the autumn and spring terms; six core modules followed by three elective modules.
The research project (dissertation) is then undertaken, to be submitted in August.
Modules are assessed through continuous assessment and final examinations.
Plus THREE additional modules, selected from (all modules 15 credits each):
Recent graduates have followed careers in:
Our employers include:
"For me, the greatest thing about the Business Management course at the RAU is the strong and practical focus on entrepreneurship and the opportunities to gain insights into how entrepreneurship can look like in rural settings, both in the UK and internationally."
Lloyd Buck, Student
We welcome applications from applicants with non-standard qualifications who are able to demonstrate knowledge, experience (in management) and skills developed in the workplace or elsewhere and which are relevant to the programme of study.
Please note: International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student Visa/Tier 4 General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
MSc Business Management 2025-26
Associate Professor in Marketing

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/mba-food-and-agriculture:
Leaders face urgent global challenges which are highly prominent in the food and agricultural sector.
This course equips you with the leadership skills and specialist knowledge that is required to navigate dynamic business environments, whilst enabling you to take a strategic role in shaping the future of the sector.
This course will prepare you to address global challenges and to successfully navigate through a time of uncertainty and change in the food and agriculture sector, through the development of responsible leadership skills and management expertise.
You will study business modules in responsible leadership, sustainable business strategy, and financial decision making, which comprise the foundation of the MBA curriculum.
You will study a further four sector-based specialist modules which cover the economics of food production, challenges and solutions for achieving a more sustainable agricultural future, the significance of scale in farming and food supply, and the policy environment in which the agri-food industry operates.
The aim of the course is to develop responsible leaders with the skills needed to shape the food and agricultural sector for a more sustainable future, whether as senior leaders, consultants, entrepreneurs, or policy advocates.
To that end we encourage you to choose a dissertation research topic that has the potential to be impactful and create change.
The research skills module will equip you with the skills required to develop and execute your own research investigation.
An important part of the MBA experience is the opportunity to explore sector issues with your peers in a collegiate environment.
Your course peers will, like you, be existing managers with at least three years professional work experience at a managerial level, who are keen to bring about change and make an impact in this sector.
Discussion and debate, critique and team problem solving will ensure you are prepared for the changing landscape of business within the food and agriculture sector.
UN Sustainable Development Goals: This programme has been designed to foster greater knowledge and awareness of the UN Sustainable Development Goals .
Learning on the MBA focuses on problem solving; you will draw on your own work experience, and that of your peers as well as new learning from the modules to explore emerging challenges and to develop innovative solutions.
You will question your own assumptions and develop new ways of thinking about your area of interest.
We adopt a variety of teaching approaches which include case studies, group project work, seminar discussions, lectures and presentations, with an emphasis on the practical.
You will learn from site visits and from our guest speakers.
Directed learning tasks will enable you to prepare well for class and to take an active part in discussion.
Modules will be assessed through a variety of methods including business reports, presentations, case study analysis, decision-making exercises and policy critiques, all of which are designed to blend management theory with professional practice.
In terms of workload, you should anticipate that the MBA is the equivalent of a full-time job.
Part-time study over two years equates to approximately 50% of a full-time role.
You will also find yourself occupied, should you choose to be, with the all the other opportunities that studying at the RAU offers, such as additional talks, student conferences and enterprise events.
The course is studied full-time over a period of one year although you may also choose to study part-time over two or more years to fit around other commitments.
The course is structured around nine core modules, including your choice of a dissertation project which enables you to conduct an intensive study of a particular area of interest to you.
We provide supervisory support for your research project (Dissertation) and discussions with your supervisor are often rewarding and motivating.
The range of business and food and agriculture modules offered on the MBA have been informed by the requirements of a Master’s in Business Administration and by industry dialogue so you can be sure that you will have every opportunity to develop the leadership skills and specialist knowledge needed to succeed in the food and agriculture sector.
As a potential MBA student you may already be well-placed in your chosen career and wish to take this time to develop additional skills and knowledge to progress further within it.
You may be taking a career break to re-think your future or planning to transition from your management role to a position in the food and agriculture sector.
Whatever your career intentions, you can use your MBA Dissertation research to help you to achieve them, tailoring your research to suit your aims.
Moreover the opportunities to engage in industry dialogue with our range of contacts and to learn from our enterprise team may prompt new career ideas.
If you are interested in studying this subject but cannot commit to the full MBA programme it is also possible to study for a Certificate or Diploma in the subject.
The PGCert - or Postgraduate Certificate - is the shortest of our Masters level offerings, which is completed by studying four modules (60 credits).
It allows you to study a specific area of the course in depth but takes less time to complete than the MBA or PGDip.
The PGCert is a great way of fitting postgraduate study around a busy life.
It is ideal if you want to study a specific subject but would rather not commit to a full MBA with its attendant time and financial costs.
It can be a great way into a career in a new industry but if you desire to continue your studies, PGCert credits can be used to contribute towards a PGDip or even an MBA qualification later down the line.
Completing studies using this route is often likened to building blocks – one step at a time – the first step being a PGCert.
The PGDip - or Postgraduate Diploma – is a Masters level course that sits between the PGCert and the full MBA.
Consequently, it takes substantially less time to complete than the MBA, while still covering the same taught elements.
It is ideal for students who want to study a specific subject but would rather not commit to a full MBA with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PGDip can be a great way to boost your career, or enter a new industry.
We recognise that life can be unpredictable so the PGDip is built to be as flexible as possible.
Should you desire to continue your studies, PGDip credits can be used to contribute towards an MBA qualification later down the line.
Conversely, if you need to cut your studies short for any reason, it is also possible to convert the PGDip to a PGCert after the completion of four modules.
*Please note that this type of study participation is only available to registered UK based students due to UKVI visa restrictions.
* Optional additions to the course will incur additional charges
Opportunities include:
Students will be expected to have:
MBA Food and Agriculture 2025-26 .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/mba-water-management:
Access to clean, safe water resources is essential for sustainable development, integral to our ability to grow food and generate power.
This course equips you with the leadership skills, knowledge, and competencies to lead and innovate across the water sector and related industries.
The UN goal to ensure safe and affordable drinking water for all by 2030 requires investments in critical infrastructure and sustainable technologies to manage the collection, storage, treatment and distribution of water and leaders with the skills and flexibility to respond to the challenge of climate change and related water threats.
Water Management is a multidisciplinary field that addresses the challenges and opportunities of managing water resources in a complex and uncertain world.
This MBA in Water Management prepares students to become leaders and innovators in the water sector, with a focus on the Water-Food-Energy Nexus, business, environmental policies, and sustainable technology.
You will gain key managerial skills for the water and environmental sectors, through the development of responsible leadership skills and water management expertise.
You will study responsible leadership, sustainable business strategy, and financial decision making, which comprise the foundation of the MBA curriculum.
Your specialist focus will be sustainable water management and water policy as well as modules on climate change and managing global soils.
The course aims to develop responsible leaders in water management with the knowledge and flexibility to successfully respond to complex problems within the integrated water, stormwater, and wastewater sectors.
You can choose to focus on a specific challenge for your dissertation topic, which will be supported by a research skills module to equip you with the skills required to develop and execute your own research investigation.
“Water is the most vital natural resource on our planet.
Today we are putting more pressure on water resources than ever before.
Between rapidly growing populations and a shifting climate, water related stresses and risks are increasing rapidly.
This MBA programme specialising in Water Management is vital for addressing worldwide pressing issues for the need of clean water resources, directly contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 6- addressing global water challenges.
The unique structure of the MBA Water Management programme merges businesses and industry acumen with environmental stewardship, equipping leaders of tomorrow to drive sustainable change within the integrated water sector challenges through innovation and impactful solutions.”
Professor Dr Kiran Tota-Maharaj, Professor of Water Resources Management & Infrastructure, Royal Agricultural University and Technical Director-Water, Wastewater and Environmental Engineering with the Water Research Centre Ltd (WRc Group).
"Excellent and worthwhile postgraduate degree programme addressing sustainable water management."
Emeritus Professor Saravanamuthu Vigneswaran, School of Civil and Environmental Engineering at University of Technology Sydney Australia (UTS) & founding director for The Centre for Technology in Water and Wastewater (CTWW) UTS, Australia.
Learning on the MBA focuses on problem solving; you will draw on your own work experience, and that of your peers, as well as new learning from the modules to explore emerging challenges and to develop innovative solutions.
The MBA in Water Management combines theoretical and practical learning, with industry case studies, guest lectures from relevant sectors, field trips and group projects.
Students will have the opportunity to network with water professionals and stakeholders from various groups such as the Water Research Centre (WRc Group).
Modules will be assessed through a variety of methods including business reports, presentations, case study analysis, decision-making exercises, and policy critiques, all of which are designed to blend management theory with professional practice.
The course is structured around eight core modules, followed by your choice of a research project which enables you to conduct an intensive study of an area of water management that interests you.
The range of business and water management modules offered on the MBA have been informed by the requirements of a Master’s in Business Administration and by industry dialogue so you can be sure that you will have every opportunity to develop the leadership skills and specialist knowledge needed to succeed in the sector.
You may be taking a career break to re-think your future or planning to transition from your management role to a position in the water, stormwater, or wastewater sectors.
Moreover, the opportunities to engage in industry dialogue with our range of contacts and to learn from our enterprise team may prompt new career ideas.
“This is an outstanding programme, with great content, beneficial for the Caribbean Water & Wastewater sectors.”
Mr.
Kelvin Romain, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Water & Sewerage Authority (WASA), Trinidad and Tobago, West Indies.
MBA Water Management 2025-26
Professor of Water Resources Management and Infrastructure
BSc (Eng), MSc, PhD, PGCert, CEng, FICE, MIMechE, MIET, FIoW, REng (TT), FHEA, M.
ASCE, MIAHR

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-conservation-and-management-of-historic-buildings:
Buildings are a direct link to the past – to the people who built them, to the people that lived in them, and to economies and societies that produced them.
Even the simplest structure encapsulates a huge body of evidence about the past.
To protect and steward a building’s heritage requires an understanding of its nature, structure, historic context and significance, the ways in which the building can be legally protected and the conservation tools which are available for its repair and upkeep.
It also requires an understanding of how a given structure can be managed for a sustainable future.
This includes everything from schemes of interpretation and display, to how visitors can be managed to control potential damage through to how historic buildings can be retrofitted to make them environmentally friendly.
This blending of conservation and management skills lies at the heart of this course and reflects the integrative direction of travel of many historic building professions.
This programme was developed in consultation with heritage building organisations and professionals.
You will learn from a range of tutors who have considerable experience of working with historic buildings in both academia and the heritage sector.
You will benefit from opportunities to work with heritage organisations and projects, and also gain practical conservation skills through optional short courses with our practical training associates.
The programme is delivered in Swindon where you will have access to the Historic England Archive and Library, the National Collections Centre and the Swindon Museums.
All sessions are offered in a hybrid format and you can choose whether to attend any session in-person or to participate remotely, as best suits your needs.
We do recommend that you attend field trips in-person to get the most from your experience.
All in-class sessions are recorded live and made available to students who prefer to access the sessions asynchronously.* The teaching sessions are timetabled on Thursdays and Fridays, with each module being taught 10:00-12:00 and then 13:00-15:00/16:00 on the same day, each week, for the full year (both semesters).
Full-time students study on both days, with part-time students on just one.
The course has two main strands: The first focuses on the investigation and understanding of historic buildings: How they relate to the wider environment and historical context, understanding their structure, construction & history and how they might be recorded.
There is a focus on understanding the value and significance of historic assets.
The second looks at the conservation of buildings: The ethical issues surrounding building conservation, practical methods of building conservation and restoration, and how the built heritage can contribute to regeneration and the enhancement of public value.
You will complete four taught modules with varied assessments which take a pragmatic approach to building conservation and are designed with employment in mind.
You will also produce either a dissertation focusing on a particular topic of interest to you or a professional product of comparable standard such as a detailed building study or building conservation management plan.
For those in employment the professional product can be built around a negotiated work output.
*Visa students will need to attend all sessions in person due to UKVI visa requirements.
The PgCert - or Postgraduate Certificate - is the shortest of our Masters level offerings.
It allows students to study a specific area of cultural heritage in depth but takes less time to complete than the MSc or PgDip.
All students will take the core Understanding Buildings and Landscapes module and can then choose to specialise in either Conservation Planning, Practical Conservation, Regeneration and Place-Shaping or Managing and Sustaining the Historic Environment.
Full-time students can complete the course in as little as one semester (depending on choice of optional module).
It is ideal for students who wants to enter the Historic Buildings sector but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PgCert can be a great way into a career in this exciting industry but should students desire to continue their studies, PgCert credits can be used to contribute towards a PgDip or even an MSc qualification later down the line.
It allows students to study The Conservation and Management of Historic Buildings in depth but without undertaking the Dissertation element.
All students will take four MSc core modules; Understanding Historic Buildings and Landscapes, Conservation Planning, Practical Conservation, Regeneration and Place-Shaping and Managing and Sustaining the Historic Environment.
The PgDip is a great way of fitting postgraduate study around a busy life.
Full-time students can complete the course in two semesters.
Part-time students can choose to spread the course over up to six years, giving you lots of time for thinking and writing between modules.
It is ideal for students who wants to enter the Historic Building sector but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PgDip can be a great way to boost your Historic Buildings career, or indeed to enter this exciting industry.
Should students desire to continue their studies, PgDip credits can be used to contribute towards an MSc qualification later down the line.
Conversely, if you need to cut your studies short for any reason, it is also possible to convert the PgDip to a PgCert after the completion of two modules.
This programme is designed to provide a broad based introduction to the rapidly changing discipline of historic building conservation.
You will benefit from opportunities to work with heritage organisations and projects and also gain practical conservation skills through optional short courses with our practical training associates.
"This is a fabulous course and exceeds my expectations!
It’s well designed to blend academic study with practical experience and a focus on preparing students for professional life beyond, whether they come from within the heritage sector or are making a career change.
What are you waiting for…!"
Emily Way, Student
There are no additional fees for any activity conducted during the teaching days.
Expenses (travel and admission) incurred during self-directed visits will however fall to the student – all activities are structured so they can be undertaken at any heritage location near to the student and either free or at minimum cost.
Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage / Director of the Cultural Heritage Institute.
PhD Archaeology (Bristol), MA Historical Archaeology (Bristol), BA Hons Society, Economy and Social Policy (Exeter)
MSc Conservation and Management of Historic Buildings 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-cultural-heritage-management:
Cultural Heritage is all around us.
It is at the centre of current political debates around identity, how we feel about our past, and who we as a country want to be on the international stage.
To be part of shaping the UK’s cultural heritage landscape is a rewarding and challenging career, requiring a wide and varied range of skills and knowledge.
The MSc in Cultural Heritage Management is designed to give learners a broad and thorough grounding in the varied and fast-moving cultural heritage sector.
It will equip learners with the wider contextual and practical skills to allow them to engage analytically with a variety of real-life heritage issues.
As the course progresses, learners will be able to follow their developing interests and tailor the direction of their assessed learning to pursue a variety of professional heritage careers.
This MSc provides a more flexible pathway into cultural heritage, ideal for learners who have a particular specialism or area of interest they would like to build upon, or those who wish to gain a broad range of experiences across the sector.
The RAU has been at the forefront of land-based education for 180 years, and to study cultural heritage here is a natural choice.
The programme is taught in the historic Cultural Heritage Institute, the RAU’s Swindon campus set in the ‘heritage capital of England’, home to the National Trust, English Heritage and Historic England.
It provides unparalleled opportunities to work with key heritage agencies and to gain management insights.
Our sessions are built around exercises to support and scaffold the learning process, and to provide valuable opportunities for peer-to-peer learning.
Material is taught in workshop format combining formal elements, such as lectures, with more hands-on exploratory or consolidatory exercises, for example discussions, ‘live’ group research to explore or apply a particular concept, group-critique sessions, supported writing exercises, and problem-based learning.
The programme consists of seven taught modules and a dissertation project.
The taught modules include three which are a compulsory core and four selected from a further four options.
Assessments are very varied but all involve different forms of course work.
In addition to the taught modules you will produce an academic dissertation focusing on a particular research topic of interest to you.
It allows you to study a specific area of cultural heritage in depth but takes less time to complete than the MSc or PgDip.
All students will take the core Conservation Planning module and can then choose to specialise in either Historic Buildings and Landscapes, Managing and Sustaining the Historic Environment or Heritage Interpretation.
It is ideal if you want to enter the cultural heritage management sector but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PgCert can be a great way into a career in this exciting industry but if you desire to continue your studies, PgCert credits can be used to contribute towards a PgDip or even an MSc qualification later down the line.
It allows you to study Cultural Heritage in depth but without undertaking the Dissertation element.
All students will take three MSc core modules; Conservation Planning, Managing and Sustaining the Historic Environment and Heritage Interpretation.
You can then specialise with one optional module chosen from Archaeology, Historic Buildings or Practical Conservation, Regeneration and Place-Shaping.
Full-time students can complete the course in as little as two semesters (depending on choice of optional module).
It is ideal for students who want to enter the Cultural Heritage Management sector but would rather not commit to a full MSc with its attendant time and financial costs.
The PgDip can be a great way to boost your heritage career, or indeed to enter this exciting industry.
Should you desire to continue your studies, PGDip credits can be used to contribute towards an MSc qualification later down the line.
The in-person teaching sessions are timetabled on Thursdays and Fridays, with each module being taught 10:00-12:00 and then 13:00-15:00/16:00 on the same day, each week, for the full year (both semesters).
Optional modules will allow you to tailor your MSc to a specialist area (for example, standing buildings consultancy or archaeology) within the wider sector.
Career prospects include:
The course also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at PhD level.
"The lectures are interactive, consistently fascinating and assignments are cleverly set as real-life examples of professional practice reports for us to build our portfolio and gain practical experience whilst learning.
10/10 would recommend to a friend!"
Gemma Stevens, Student
First degree subject areas include: Heritage, History, Land Management, Architecture or Geography.
There is, however, great breadth in the heritage sector meaning that degrees in business, arts, sciences, media, or the wider humanities are often very relevant.
MSc Cultural Heritage Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-heritage-and-archaeology:
Heritage and archaeology is not only the study of the past, it is the study of ourselves.
Archaeology feeds into current political debates around identity, how we feel about our past, and who we want to be.
Large infrastructure projects also ensure it is a profession in increasing demand.
From site assistants, to managers, finds specialists and consultants, it is a rewarding and challenging career, requiring a wide and varied range of skills and knowledge.
The RAU has been at the forefront of land-based education for 180 years, and to study heritage and archaeology here is a natural choice.
The programme is taught in the Cultural Heritage Institute, the RAU’s Swindon campus and the ‘heritage’ capital of England, home to the National Trust, English Heritage and Historic England.
It provides unparalleled opportunities to work with key heritage agencies and to gain professional insights.
The MSc in Heritage and Archaeology is designed to address the professional skills gaps existing at specialist and managerial level within the heritage industry.
It gives learners the ability to complete a tailored heritage sector degree that meets their unique professional needs and supports their ambitions for the future.
This course will suit those who have existing competencies in some or several aspects of heritage or a closely related field, who need to build a specific set of skills to take the next step in their careers in archaeology or the broader heritage sector.
As the course progresses, you will be able to follow your developing interests and tailor the direction of your assessed learning to pursue a variety of careers, from finds specialist to standing buildings archaeologist, from landscape characterisation to geophysics practitioner.
This MSc provides a more flexible pathway into heritage, ideal for those who have a particular specialism or area of interest they would like to build upon, or those who wish to gain a broad range of experiences across the sector.
The programme consists of four taught modules and a dissertation project.
Your dissertation allows you to showcase the skills acquired and can provide springboard to further research or employment.
Plus your choice of at least one from:
This programme is designed with Shortage Occupations in heritage and archaeology in mind and will equip you for specialist, managerial and consultancy roles, much sought after within the sector.
The completion of live projects as assessment ensures that you will leave with a recent and relevant portfolio of work to demonstrate your professional competency, ability to complete complex projects and manage stakeholder engagements.
Through these projects, you will also have developed a useful professional network on which to draw for help, advice and career opportunities.
It also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at PhD level.
"I aspire to pursue a career in Archaeology or Heritage, and I have found the Cultural Heritage Institute to be an excellent resource for acquiring the essential skills and knowledge required for this field."
Maximus Maillard, Student
MSc Heritage and Archaeology 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-cultural-heritage-research:
If you are interested in studying cultural heritage research but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Certificate (PgCert) may be the route for you.
All in-class sessions are recorded live and made available to students who prefer to access the sessions asynchronously.*
Plus ONE module from the list below:
On completion of the course you will be able to work in local authorities, heritage organisations, museums, collections, as self-employed consultants, and in the private sector, which require specialists with an in-depth and applied understanding of cultural heritage.
It also provides an excellent grounding for further academic study, for example at PgDip or MSc level.
PGCert Cultural Heritage Research 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-retrofitting-regen-historic-buildings:
This programme is designed to equip learners to pursue careers in historic built environment conservation, regeneration and retrofitting.
It focuses on developing essential skills, methods and approaches to the repair and retrofit of historic buildings as well as inculcating the initiative, adaptability, decision-making and self-direction required for wider regeneration work.
There is an emphasis on personal and professional development throughout the programme.
The course has two main strands:
The first focuses on the practicalities surrounding the conservation and retrofitting of historic buildings.
This includes the ethical considerations around identifying conservation-appropriate methods, materials, designs and finishes.
It also explores the options – and challenges – associated with sensitively improving the performance and sustainability of historic and traditional buildings, including the identification of inappropriate previous interventions.
This includes understanding and correctly interpreting building pathology and using this data to inform decision around materials and interventions as well as monitoring and evaluating the results.
The second focuses on the potential of historic buildings to contribute to wider regeneration of an area.
Here we concentrate on putting buildings to work in the community, moving away from thinking of buildings as their footprint of the building and towards a viable future use.
We examine the economics of regeneration, including the role of partnerships with heritage organisations, local groups and business to draw on and generate local momentum and investment.
The degree will enable graduates to pursue careers in historic building conservation, urban or rural regeneration, retrofitting, etc.
and to work in local authorities, heritage organisations, museums and the private sector which require specialists with a buildings and structures focus.
PGCert Retrofitting, Regeneration and Sustainability in Historic Buildings 2025-26
Application deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants requiring a study visa should submit their application by 1 December 2025 at the latest, applications received after this may be considered for September entry UK applicants should aim to submit their applications the latest by 5 January 2026 Results deadline, January entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 8 December 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 7 January 2026 Applicants will be notified via email once a decision has been made and decision letters will be emailed to you.
Decisions on deferral requests are considered: For January entry at the end of January (or later) If the deferral request is granted applicants will receive a new offer letter with tuition fees which are applicable to their year of entry, at the opening of the next admissions cycle.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-real-estate:
The real estate profession underpins a dynamic economy, and has significant sustainability and energy security implications.
Whether you wish to pursue a career in commercial, residential, or industrial property, you will develop your technical and professional skills, networks, and confidence.
You will benefit from site visits and expert speakers.
Subjects you will cover include acquisitions, sales, commercial lettings, development and management of property interests and investments, town and country planning, and building construction.
This rigorous and challenging programme equips students with the intellectual mind-set, vocationally orientated knowledge and professional competencies to evaluate markets, property investments and development projects.
If you have professional real estate career aspirations it prepares you to enter practice.
Fully accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), this course is an established route to a professional career in mixed practice real estate of other sectors, depending on your career aspirations.
Part-time students already in relevant work may apply for APC registration upon enrolment.
Students study nine modules including Research.
Students study four modules in the first (autumn) semester followed by four modules in the second (spring) semester.
Research is taught throughout the year so students can submit their dissertation in September.
For the dissertation, students can specialise in International, Residential, Rural, Development, Finance, Heritage or other areas as agreed by the module leader and potential supervisor.
Research guidance includes lectures and a research day, involving practical classes on, for example, NVivo, SPSS etc.
Students engage in a blended range of lectures, live scenario case studies, site visits (including a trip to London), group assessments and technical interactive workshops.
Teaching and learning takes place in small groups and is enriched by site visits, industry speakers and a wide range of current electronic materials, including CoStar, BCIS, EGi, Argus* and RICS Red Book.
You will also use Excel and statistical programs.
Working in real estate calls for good teamwork, and students develop this essential skill via interactive discussions, collaborative projects and industry exposure.
Modules are assessed through case studies, research paper seminars, group presentations, online exercises, valuation computations, written reports, oral examinations and other tasks.
*Professional Argus accreditation is facilitated via Argus Enterprise and Developer University Student Certification Packages
The in-person teaching sessions are timetabled on Wednesdays and Thursdays each week for the full year (both semesters) which allows you to fulfil other commitments you may have, such as work, family and interests.
For part-time students the sessions are timetabled on one day per week only.
"It's a really broad course.
We've covered everything including construction, project management, investment, valuations, planning, pretty much every aspect of the property industry."
Heath Jackson, Student
We welcome applications from applicants with non-standard qualifications who are able to demonstrate knowledge, experience (in real estate practice) and skills developed in the workplace or elsewhere and which are relevant to the programme of study.
overall 6.5 with no element below 5.5(or equivalent).
MSc Real Estate 2025-26
Application deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants must submit their application by 30 June 2025 UK applicants must submit their applications by 1 September 2025 Results deadline, September entry: EU and overseas applicants will need to meet their conditions by 1 August 2025 UK applicants will need to meet their conditions by 15 September 2025 If you are applying for a 2025 Chevening Scholarship you can submit your scholarship application prior to receiving a course offer.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-rural-estate-management:
This is a highly-regarded course which equips graduates for a rewarding and challenging career in the management of land, property, and business in the countryside.
If you are looking to fast-track your way to a career as a Chartered Surveyor, look no further.
This course, developed in partnership with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), is highly regarded by the industry where our graduates go on to secure roles with national, regional and international firms, as well as for private and public property owners.
This course is aimed at those people who are wanting to qualify as a Chartered Surveyor specialising in the management of rural land and property.
As well as agricultural land and woodland, farms and rural estates will often include other types of property; for example, residential dwellings and non-agricultural buildings let to other businesses in addition to water or wilderness.
They often, therefore, support a diverse range of rural businesses and enterprises including farming, food production, tourism and energy generation.
In addition the way in which rural land and property is managed also plays a vital role in the health of the natural environment in rural areas, and also in the life of the communities within it.
Land and rural property managers are therefore required to provide a wide range of advice to not only estate owners, but also farmers, tenants and rural business owners.
This leads to a varied and interesting career.
To help prepare you for such a career this course covers a diverse range of subject areas including rural professional practice, planning and development, valuation, building construction and management, and law.
You will also develop an essential understanding of sustainability and wider business management to enable you to provide effective advice about farm, estate, and other rural businesses whilst gaining an understanding of the multi-functionality of rural practice.
Furthermore, due to our partnership with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), most of the graduates from this course will go on to complete the RICS 'Assessment of Professional Competence' to qualify as a Chartered Surveyor.
In addition, the course can also prepare you to become a Fellow of the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers.
You will study four modules in the first (autumn) semester followed by four modules in the second (spring) semester, and complete your research project by the end of September.
You will attend lectures and group tutorials.
There is also a range of practical sessions and visits to local farms, commercial properties and rural estates where owners, occupiers and their professional advisors can provide additional insights into the management of rural property.
Assessed coursework features strongly throughout the course.
Examinations will take place in January and June.
Prior to starting the MSc, students receive reading lists and study material so that they can develop a basic grounding in study areas with which they are not familiar.
The modules available for this MSc course are shown below.
"Completing the MSc Rural Estate Management course at the RAU has given me a solid foundation from which I have been able to develop the beginning of my career, providing a grounding in various competencies.
Since graduating, I have hit the ground running with my career as a Graduate Surveyor at Batcheller Monkhouse in West Sussex."
Luke Davis, Graduate
We welcome applications from applicants with non-standard qualifications who are able to demonstrate knowledge, experience (in farming, property or countryside management) and skills developed in the workplace or elsewhere and which are relevant to the programme of study.
Please note:  International students can study on a part-time basis only if they are in the UK with a different type of visa (other than Student Visa/Tier 4 General) that allows them to undertake part-time study and their visa does not expire prior to the end date of the proposed course of study.
MSc Rural Estate Management 2025-26

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgdip-real-estate:
If you are interested in studying Real Estate but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Diploma (PgDip) may be the route for you.
The PgDip can be a grgat way to boost your career, or enter a new industry.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgdip-rural-estate-mgmt:
If you are interested in studying Rural Estate Management but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Diploma (PgDip) may be the route for you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-real-estate:
If you are interested in studying Real Estate but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Certificate (PgCert) may be the route for you.
Your choice of FOUR modules from the list below:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/pgcert-rural-estate-mgmt:
If you are interested in studying Rural Estate Management but cannot commit to the full MSc programme then studying for a Certificate (PgCert) may be the route for you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/phd-programme:
The RAU is committed to environmental, economic and social sustainability, and so all our projects explore issues that will help farmers, horse owners, and rural businesses apply innovative techniques and models to improve output, economic viability, health, and welfare while caring for the environment.
Current research areas include:
The University is interested in receiving applications from suitably qualified, motivated, and self-financing students wishing to undertake research at either Master of Science by Research (MScR) or Doctoral (PhD) level.
A transcript of the course video can be found here
Please note due to visa restrictions, part-time study is not available to international students on a Tier 4 visa.
Research students receive training in formulating research enquiries, critical reading, scientific writing, research methodology, statistics (e.g.
Genstat, SPSS, NVivo), and presentation skills.
As part of the on-going development programme all post graduate students contribute to internal seminars and present their work at conferences.
There are no formal timetabled sessions for research degrees, which allows students to fulfil other commitments they may have, such as work, family and interests.
For students whose first language is not English, the University will accept the International English Language Test (IELTS) with a minimum overall score of 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in Writing and no less than 5.5 in all elements.
For the academic year 2025-2026 the tuition fees for this course are:
Please note: Part-time students from non-UK countries are currently unable to enrol on research degrees due to visa regulations.
Associate Professor in Sustainable Land Management.
MEng Environmental Engineering (Nottingham), PhD (Cambridge)
If you have the ambition and passion to carry out research at higher degree level, together with the necessary finance to cover tuition fees, research project costs and your own living expenses, please contact Admissions, admissions@rau.ac.uk.
Applicants are required to contact Admissions (admissions@rau.ac.uk) prior to submitting an application to discuss their proposed research project.
Please complete and return the Research Proposal form.
Research applicants should submit their initial enquiry at least 12 weeks prior to the date they are intending to start their study .
If your proposed research has been agreed and you are invited to submit a formal application please, ensure you complete this: Home/UK applicants : at least one month prior to the start date of the programme EU/Overseas applicants : at least three months prior to the start date of the programme as a student visa is required
If your proposed research has been agreed and you are invited to submit a formal application please, ensure you complete this:
Home/UK applicants : at least one month prior to the start date of the programme
EU/Overseas applicants : at least three months prior to the start date of the programme as a student visa is required

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-by-research-programme:
Research and innovation are vital to the agricultural and equine industries, which face the constant challenge of adapting to scientific and technological advances.
Expert, evidence-based insights lie at the heart of the industry’s ability to respond to those changes in a way that will benefit the industry itself and the wider world.
This programme is your chance to play a pivotal part in that process.
You will be trained by the RAU’s globally renowned researchers in how to formulate enquiries, critical approaches to reading, scientific writing, research methodology and statistics (e.g.
Genstat, SPSS, NVivo).
You will also gain the skills and confidence to lead lectures and contribute to internal seminars and external conferences.
You may also attend taught subject classes to update your knowledge and understanding on disciplines related to your chosen subject of study and to further your critical review skills.
The full-time Master of Science by Research programme includes a one-year research project submitted as a thesis and possibly examined in a viva voce.
Our research degrees are validated by the University of Gloucestershire allowing you to interact with a large and subject-diverse postgraduate community.
You can enter the programme in either September or January.
MSc by Research students are expected to complete two research modules.
Full time students will take these two modules in semester 1.
Part-time students will take the first module in semester 1 and the second module in semester 2.
Both modules will be delivered online under present arrangements.
The standard minimum entry requirement will be an Honours degree at upper second class level or an equivalent academic qualification from a comparable international institution.
If your proposed research has been agreed and you are invited to submit a formal application please, ensure you complete this: Home/UK applicants : at least one month prior to the start date of the programme.
EU/Overseas applicants : at least three months prior to the start date of the programme as a student visa is required.
Home/UK applicants : at least one month prior to the start date of the programme.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/agriculture-food-and-the-environment/agriculture/about-agriculture-studies:
Our Farm491 agritech hub will give you unparalleled access to on-farm / applied product development initiatives and nearby farms will provide access to research trials.
This will help you to understand what it takes to bridge the gap between the laboratory, the field, the commercial market and the farm.
You will gain the skills and credibility that will appeal to future employers through rural skills training and grasp opportunities to connect with one of our many industry partners through a work placement.
Throughout your course you could learn about different farm and land-based enterprises, a range of production systems, how to address the challenges of the realities of sustainable commercial farming, environmental protection and how to achieve the highest standards of livestock welfare.
Our curriculum provides a clear response to the current and future issues which affect the consumer, the role of technology and the impact of the economic and political landscape.
All this along with guidance from lecturers who are active in their fields, will prepare you to tackle any challenges ahead and to create a more sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/farm-partners:
There are a number of farms located near the campus which provide our students with an ideal field laboratory.
More than 100 agricultural businesses generously allow us and our students to learn from their activities and experiences.
Coates Manor Farm is a regenerative farming business within walking distance of the campus and is a vital part of our students' learning about agriculture and related disciplines.
The 457-acre arable farm is now being farmed in an exciting new collaboration between the University and local farmer SS Horton and Sons, run by RAU alumnus Ed Horton.
This change in farming system - which includes a more diverse crop rotation, a range of cover crops, grazing cover crops with livestock, and direct drilling - enables students to gain experience in a wider range of farm management techniques including growing peas, beans, and spelt wheat, as well the management of over winter cover crops.
Regenerative farming focuses on enhancing soil health.
A combination of practices - including maintaining soil cover, integrating crop and livestock enterprises, maintaining living roots in the soil, practicing diverse crop rotations, and minimal soil disturbance - helps to build organic matter which, in turn, stabilises the soil and helps to reduce erosion as well as creating diverse soil microbiomes and decreasing the risk of environmental stress.
Regenerative farming is a key step towards developing resilient farming systems which can cope with extreme weather conditions and a changing climate.
In addition to using the farm as a base for practical field classes, real-life scenarios, case study based learning, and environmental planning, it also allows us to teach students the more traditional agricultural skills, such as crop and livestock monitoring and evaluation, understanding a range of husbandry practices, and weed, pest, and disease identification.
The GREAT Market Garden Project is a social enterprise which was established on a seven-acre site on land adjoining our Cirencester campus in 2023.
Students are actively involved in all aspects of the GREAT Market Garden Project and the planting schedules are designed to match the University’s catering requirements for the following year.
A wide range of crops are grown using a low soil disturbance system to try and improve soil health.
Students gain experience of working directly with the University’s kitchens, to provide produce for hospitality and retail markets.
Fossehill Farm is adjacent to Coates and provides livery stabling for students and associated exercise facilities.
The stabling is set out over eight barns and features a 1,000m all-weather exercise track and an outdoor arena.
To provide a contrast, students have access to this 300-cow autumn block calving herd utilising a grass-based system.
Additionally, the University uses numerous farms, estates and businesses, both locally and further afield, for visits and practical exercises such as Miserden Estate and Guiting Power Estate .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/sustainability-regeneration-and-biodiversity-in-agriculture:
Underpinning this has been a long-term systematic experiment (LTE) at Harnhill Farm - ongoing for 11 years - in which three regimes (plough, minimum till, and direct drill) and three crops have been monitored across 18 plots.
This platform is used by our research cluster, to measure outputs from annual harvest, soil biology and worm density and micro-nutrients in soil and plant uptake enabling us to connect outputs, nutrients, soil health and cultivation methods.
Soil health remains at the centre of our research in sustainable agriculture.
By using this term, we are acknowledging that we regard soil as a living ecosystem and not just an inert base for agriculture.
Measuring the reliance of the soil to changes within agricultural management, food security and climate change is a key research goal.
Our research on the agri-ecology of woodland, field margins and hedgerows centres on their potential for biodiversity enhancement and carbon sequestration.
Professor Tom MacMillan
Professor Mark Horton
Professor Nicola Cannon
Professor Xianmin Chang
Associate Professor Ian Grange
Associate Professor Kelly Hemmings
Associate Professor David O’Connor
Dr Henry Webber
Shengjun Xu, PhD
‘Unmanned aerial vehicle for mapping weeds in field’
Caitlin Willis, PhD
‘Investigating insecticide resistance in UK populations of oil seed rape pests’
Lloyd Cockram PhD
Efficacy of farm swales in removing metaldehyde and other pesticides from surface water’
Sally Westaway PhD
‘Assessing the ecosystem services provided by trees on farmland’
Helen King MScR
‘Pollinator-plant interactions within semi-natural species-rich grassland versus planted agri-environmental wildflower seed mixes’
Jane Thatcher MScR
‘Horticultural no-dig soil health’
Yolande Booyse MScR
‘How does the intensity of tillage operations influence soil health and diversity?’
Academic partners : Elizabeth Creak chairs from Royal Agricultural University (lead) with Harper Adams, Reading, Warwick and Newcastle Universities
Funding source: Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust and the academic partner institutions
The Centre for Effective Innovation in Agriculture (CEIA) aims to strengthen the impact and benefit of agricultural research at scale.
Launched in April 2021, the CEIA is a partnership of England’s leading agricultural universities, founded with five years’ funding from the Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust.
The Centre aims to:
To find out more and discuss working with us, contact:
Professor Tom MacMillan ( tom.macmillan@rau.ac.uk ) or
CEIA manager Dr Kate Pressland ( kate.pressland@rau.ac.uk )
Academic and industry collaborators: Associate Professor Kelly Hemmings, RAU and Plantlife Funding source : Higher Education Innovation Fund, Plantlife
Many wild plant species associated with cultivated land have experienced declines in population and range.
These species provide valuable pollen and nectar sources for pollinators, as well as seeds for farmland mammals and birds.
The Royal Agricultural University was selected by Plantlife, Europe’s largest wildflower conservation organisation, to reintroduce the critically endangered Red Hemp-nettle ( Galeopsis angustifolia ) to plots under organic cultivation.
The reintroduction was part of a wider collaborative project between the RAU and the Colour in the Margins project led by Plantlife, part of Natural England’s ‘Back from the Brink’ conservation work.
In 2019 27,000 seeds were sown from the Millennium Seedbank.
To determine the best conditions for future reintroduction projects, germination and survival of the Red Hemp-nettle are being monitored under three different conditions - normal drilling rates, reduced drilling rates, and in uncropped plots.
The first Red Hemp-nettle plants germinated in 2020.
The RAU has further collaborated with Plantlife to assess the response of the endangered Spreading Hedge-parsley ( Torilis arvensis ) to a conventional farming system.
Seeds supplied by the Millennium Seedbank were sown in 2020 at the field edge and interior under four crops (two broadleaf and two cereal).
Plots continue to be monitored for both autumn and spring germination.
Both projects provide wider research opportunities, including staff-student collaborations, not only relating to the reintroduced species, but arable flora more generally at our reintroduction sites.
Collaborators: Agroceutical Products Ltd, Aberystwyth University & Harper Adams University
Funding source: TSB/BBSRC (Agri-Tech Catalyst, Industrial Research Award, Round 2)
Galantamine is a pharmaceutical compound that has been an approved Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) treatment since 1998.
Galantamine can be synthesised chemically but it is a difficult and expensive process.
Producing galantamine from galanthamine extracted from plants is more cost effective, but supplies are limited.
Daffodils are the only economically feasible plant source for cultivation in the UK.
The project aim was to deliver a new approach for producing daffodil-derived galantamine based on integrating daffodil-growing into existing upland pasture while avoiding the need to plough the field.
This will increase the economic sustainability of hill farming by providing farmers with a high value crop while maintaining traditional farming systems in the upland areas.
Collaborator: Liverpool University, Agrocuetical Products Ltd
Funding source: British Council
The Amaryllidaceae alkaloids e.g.
galanthamine (Gal), lycorine, narciclasine and pretazettine are noted for their pharmaceutical properties.
The biosynthesis of alkaloids by plants using in vitro systems has been considered as a tool for drug discovery and production since total chemical synthesis is not economic.
The biosynthetic pathways, especially for Gal, are starting to be understood, but still far from complete.
This study focused on understanding biosynthesis in whole plants and developing cell culture systems that could be optimised for alkaloid production.
Metabolite profiling and knowledge about probable genes involved in secondary metabolism and their regulation in different tissues will provide insight into the Narcissus plant biology related to alkaloid production.
Collaborators: Professor Nicola Cannon, Dr Felicity Crotty, Harnhill Farms
Funding source: RAU, John Oldacre Fund, Higher Education Innovation Fund
Image LTE Plots at Harnhill showing on a NDVI Sentera High Precision Algorithm
This long-term experiment (LTE) was set up in 2010 to investigate the impact of crop cultivation systems on crop growth, development and yield.
The randomised block design trial has 6 replicates of three cultivation treatments (plough, power harrow combination drill; minimum tillage (one pass with a tined cultivator e.g.
a Topdown and a Horsch Sprinter) or direct drilling (using a Moore Unidrill or similar).
Each plot is 30m wide by 100m long to allow for the use of standard farm machinery.
The trial spent the first ten years in an arable rotation but in 2020 was sown, using the same crop establishment techniques, into a diverse herbal ley for the next four years.
After over a decade of these cultivation treatments, the LTE now provides a valuable asset for investigating the impact of these treatments upon soil physical, chemical and biological health, crop yield and other important variables in a controlled environment experiment.
Principal investigator: Dr Felicity Crotty
Collaborators: Liverpool John Moores University, Waterford Institute of Technology, Hartree Centre STFC
Funding source: UKRI Science Technology Facilities Council
Earthworms are often used as the emblem of soil health, having a large effect on the physical soil environment – through burrowing, mixing the soil, increasing the amount of water infiltration and aeration within the soil profile.
Deep burrowing earthworm species leave “casts” on the soil surface (earthworm poo), this is soil and organic matter that has been processed by the earthworm changing its chemical composition, redistributing nutrients from depth to the soil surface.
This project is an interdisciplinary collaboration between soil and computer scientists.
Focusing on the development of image recognition algorithms (AI and computer learning) to estimate earthworm activity within agricultural soils.
Understanding how agricultural management effects earthworms and how they differ spatially within a field and across farms is key to enhancing earthworm population and consequently soil health.
Collaborators: Associate Professor Ian Grange, Associate Professor Kelly Hemmings, Miserden Estate, Cirencester Golf Club
Hedgerows and scrub are well recognised for their various environmental benefits, not least as wildlife habitats playing host to a range of bird, mammal and invertebrate species supplying them with food and protection as well as forming wildlife corridors.
What is less recognised about hedgerows and scrub, is their carbon storage potential.
Very little information is available about this.
This project investigates both the amounts of carbon currently stored in these habitats along with the potential management interventions to increase the storage potential.
The findings will inform new agri-environmental management schemes and rewilding projects going forward.
Collaborators: Associate Professor Ian Grange, Associate Professor Kelly Hemmings, Cotswold Conservation Board, Butterfly Conservation, Miserden Estate, Bathurst Estate, Cirencester Golf Club
Traditional unimproved grasslands are often packed full of biodiversity, with levels comparable to rainforests in some cases.
However, over the last few decades, these grasslands have decreased in extent as well as experiencing declines in quality due to poor management.
This project focusses on a number of local limestone grassland sites which consider ways to improve them through various grassland restoration interventions, investigating methods of:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/livestock-health-and-welfare:
Recently the work has been extended to consider the economic and policy value of positive welfare/good life opportunities in livestock species and calf welfare assessment measures.
We also have expertise in epidemiology which enables us to extend quantitative approaches to animal health and welfare.
A second approach has been in establishing farmer-led innovation networks (FLIN).
The main aim of FLIN is to understand, learn from and ‘power up’ farmer-led research and innovation initiatives in the UK and increase the impact of these types of initiative across the industry.
Professor David Main
Associate Professor Simon Daniels
Dr Jessica Stokes
Emily Bull (Post-doctoral research assistant)
TransformDairyNet is a new 26 multi-actor project across Europe in which Dr Jessica Stokes, Associate Professor in Farm Animal Welfare Science and Policy, is co-coordinating with UCD to upscale cow-calf dairy systems across Europe.
The first facilitation training for the project took place at the Royal Agricultural University in July 2024.
Academic partnership: Royal Agricultural University and Zoetis Outcomes Research
Funding source: Zoetis Outcomes Research
Respiratory disease (pneumonia) is one of the most prevalent diseases affecting beef and dairy calves worldwide, with implications for lifetime productivity, antimicrobial use, and animal welfare.
The aim of this project  was to construct a conceptual framework for assessment of health-related quality of life in calves with respiratory disease, based on indicators suitable for direct pen-side visual observation.
A conceptual framework has been created which features 23 putative indicators of health-related quality of life distributed across two interrelated domains – clinical signs and behavioural expressions of emotional wellbeing.
It has potential applications to inform the development of new health-related quality of life measures such as structured questionnaires and automated sensor technologies.
Project team: Professor David Main and Emily Bull
This innovation project is concerned with co-developing innovative strategies with key stakeholders in the UK broiler supply chain to encourage a sectoral shift towards meeting the Better Chicken Commitment.
The Better Chicken Commitment encourages consumers to buy higher welfare poultry meat which has been slowly grown in better living conditions.
Whilst the Better Chicken Commitment has many advantages, disadvantages include higher feed requirements and increased greenhouse gases.
This complexity requires active engagement from all stakeholders in the system to co-develop innovative and transformative change.
Professor David Main and Emily Bull are working with stakeholders to facilitate innovation workshops to drive change in key areas including housing, animal, and the supply chain.
Funding source: AHDB Beef and Lamb
The dairy-bred beef calf rearing sector could be described as “falling between the gaps” of the dairy and beef industries.
There are significant challenges, such as antimicrobial use, reduced productivity, and the inevitable ongoing public interest in the welfare of calves.
This project, funded by AHDB Beef and Lamb, will collate existing knowledge, actively engage with the industry in knowledge exchange and explore further innovation potential.
Using questionnaires to calf rearers and geographically spread focus groups of producers, the project team (Professor David Main and Emily Bull) will summarise current practices and identify the key challenges through the eyes of the farmers.
Relevant stakeholders such as the three main calf suppliers and specialist veterinarians will also be engaged as well as data collected from visits to markets and collection centres.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/food-policy-quality-and-security:
The collective research activity is considering food supply as a socio-economic and a socio-technical system which inform food safety, food supply and the moral framing and behaviours in supply chains.
Dr Beverley Hill
Current doctoral research projects

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/business-and-entrepreneurship/about:
So, whether you aspire to a successful career in business or agri-business or, dream of starting your own company we will help you to make it a reality.
We offer a curriculum that is grounded in the values, beliefs and ethics of the rural economy which now encompasses a diverse range of ventures from environmental innovators to high technology companies and social enterprises as well as agricultural businesses.
While studying at the RAU students will be taught in smaller classes and have access to their tutors throughout the term.
They will be engaged by a wide range of teaching and learning activities, visits and work placements which will allow them gain valuable real-world experience and see how their learning is used in practice.
Given the constantly changing nature of the rural economy we are constantly refining our degrees and updating materials to ensure that students will receive an education that will prepare them to take advantage of these opportunities.
In recognition of this and the practical nature of the degrees that we offer, all of our honour’s degrees have two dual accreditations, which is very rare.
Firstly, we offer a level 6 accreditation from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) meaning that students leave with an additional diploma and associate membership of this internationally recognised organisation to recognise our graduates skills in these disciplines.
For many people, a rural business is a farm, but this masks a diverse range of ventures from high technology businesses, to online retail and social enterprises, all of which now form a key part of the rural economy.
After all, over 35% of farms in the UK have diversified, into industries such as energy production, tourism or value-added food production.
However, what unites these groups is the landscape and its environment which are core to their values and business ethics.
It is well known that rural population in the UK are more entrepreneurial, as there are more businesses per head of population, and they are more likely to engage in portfolio careers.
Yet, in the UK, the average rural business has a third less turnover, is less likely to export and have reduced growth prospects compared to its urban counterparts.
If you are interested in joining us then you are very welcome to attend one of our open days.
To be recognised as a progressive and connected community of practice in management, business and entrepreneurial education that delivers thought leadership for the rural economy and its supply chains.
Our vision is supported by our four-fold mission statement:
We develop entrepreneurial leaders for the rural economy and are one of the only business schools in the world which runs its own wine brand.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/accreditations-and-partnerships:
Business West is a not-for-profit company which offers business support to start-up and growing businesses in the West of England.
The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) is a UK business organisation.
The Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) is the representative body and authoritative voice for the leading business schools of UK universities, higher education institutions and independent management colleges.
Students studying a business degree at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) will now receive a dual qualification from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the only accredited professional body for management and leadership and to award Chartered Manager status.
The local dynamic business network within the Cotswolds.
Enterprise Educators UK (EEUK) connects educators and practitioners so that they inspire the community to increase the scale, scope and effectiveness of their enterprise and entrepreneurship education and practice.
Offering not for profit small business advice, financial expertise, support and a powerful voice in UK government.
GFirst LEP, Gloucestershire’s local enterprise partnership, brings together businesses to make the county successful and create jobs.
It is led by the business community in partnership with voluntary, education and public sectors to help Gloucestershire realise its economic potential.
The Institute of Directors (IoD) is a business organisation for company directors, senior business leaders and entrepreneurs.
The Royal Agricultural University (RAU) has become just the sixth university to be made a Centre of Excellence by the Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs (IOEE).
The RAU is the only small, specialist university to gain the prestigious accreditation, awarded for leading-edge enterprise practice and for making the development of students’ entrepreneurial skills a priority.
The Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE) is a network for people and organisations involved in small business and entrepreneurship research, policy, education, support and advice.
The Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) is a United Nations-supported initiative founded in 2007 as a platform to raise the profile of sustainability in schools around the world, and to equip today's business students with the understanding and ability to deliver change tomorrow.
Entrepreneurial leaders are important to all industry sectors but particularly within the rural community.
The Rural Entrepreneurial Leaders Network (RELN)  is a network designed to facilitate active exchange between functioning participants within the rural economy.
These will include rural advisers, entrepreneurial farmers and landowners, small business owners and enterprising individuals from communities across the world.
Through the use of open access blogs, events and online interactive sessions we hope to stimulate knowledge acquisition and discussion on key topics of interest to rural professionals and budding entrepreneurs, raising questions and sharing insights.
The rural economy faces many challenges but it also has a lot to offer, from leading sustainable economic development to the provision of public service provision through social enterprise.
We are looking to support entrepreneurial leaders of the rural economy who are showing the way forward and aim to make a difference.
The webinars are a twice monthly online seminar series building on the University’s commitment to engagement with people in the place they are located.
Our aim is to focus on how policy, research and knowledge informs rural businesses.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/rural-economy:
The rural economy includes industries traditionally associated with rural areas, such as agriculture, forestry and sectors such as creative industries, technology orientation across businesses and the service industry.
To sustain a balanced  outcome, a delicate relationship between productive activity – that includes farming and rural enterprise – and the conservation of the environment (both historic and landscape) needs to be maintained.
We are particularly well positioned to support the needed changes as a result of Brexit ( May, Arancibia, and Manning, 2020 ) and Covid-19 with our research.
We have a unique blend of specialists that undertake research on rural enterprise and regeneration, including economists, strategists, marketers, geographers, planners and heritage and agri-business specialists.
And we have a dedicated interest in the growing research field of rural creative and culture industries, and a particular interest in artisan and craft entrepreneurs.
We are part of the National Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise (NICRE) along with the Universities of Newcastle, Warwick, and Gloucestershire, supported by Research England and industry partners.
The NICRE research stream on rural Creative Cultural Industries is co-led with partner Dr Frances Rowe, Newcastle University.
Jonathan Code
Matthew Rogers-Draycott PhD
‘Think narratives in family businesses: An exploration of entrepreneurial discourse’
Joseph Timpre Preyor PhD
‘Social protection and value-added agribusiness as solutions to unemployment and poverty among educated Nigerian youths’
William Leschallas MScR
The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) recently announced that William Leschallas MRICS, Senior Lecturer and Head of Employability and Professional Engagement at the Royal Agricultural University, will join its UK & Ireland World Regional Board.
Adewale Ogunmodede’s, Senior Lecturer in Business, article ‘Entrepreneurship in times of crises – how access to finance impacts on business operations’ was recently published in the International Journal of Rural Development.
Academic collaborators: Dr Inge Hill, in collaboration with Newcastle University’s Dr Frances Rowe and Sussex University’s Science Policy Research Unit (Dr Jorge Velez-Ospina) and Dr Josh Siepel from the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (PEC)
Funding source: NICRE Research and Innovation Fund
Dr Inge Hill in collaboration with Newcastle University’s Dr Frances Rowe and Sussex University’s Science Policy Research Unit (Dr Jorge Velez-Ospina) and Dr Josh Siepel from the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (PEC) won funding from the NICRE Research and Innovation Fund to examine the make-up of clusters of creative industries in rural areas and their contribution to, and relationship with, the rural economy.
A further strategic stakeholder is NESTA.
Find out more about NICRE here.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/cultural-heritage:
This includes a number of archaeological projects in Britain and overseas as well as studies of historically important industrial buildings and landscapes.
The group has a strong interest in connections between soils and historic land-use, using shallow geophysics, pXRF and UAV imaging as data sources.
Heritage-based regeneration is another area of focus.
The cluster has specific expertise in cave and subterranean archaeology both in the UK and Africa.
On 2 November 2024, Professor Mark Horton, Pro Vice-Chancellor Research & Enterprise, was elected as a member of the National Trust Council at the Trust’s 129th Annual General Meeting, held at Newcastle Civic Centre and online.
Collaborators: Professor Mark Horton, Abdallah Khamis (Zanzibar) Dr Laura Basell (Leicester), Dr Eren Morales (UCSC), Dr Shadia Taha (Cambridge), Dr Abdallah Mkumbukwa (State University, Zanzibar)
Funding source: GCRF/AHRC Network Plus Grant, ‘Rising form the Depths’
Pemba Island (Zanzibar, Tanzania) retains a strong maritime heritage, from its role as a key trading centre of the Western Indian Ocean from the 8 th century.
The project investigates the surviving intangible cultural heritage on the coast of East Pemba, through studies of material culture, fishing practices, boat building, and craft production, linked to a study of the ruined sites of the 18 th /19 th century.
The information is being used to sustain the maritime communities, conserve fish and shellfish stock, and protect the cultural heritage.
A new maritime museum is being developed in the Zanzibar Stone Town, with the Department of Antiquities and Museums, with displays also planned in the Old Fort in Chake Chake, Pemba Island.
Collaborators: Professor Mark Horton, Dr Cat Jarman, Dr Henry Webber
Funding source: Various
Image Repton: Remains of a possible boat-setting from the Viking Age.
The Great Heathen Army camped at Repton (Derbyshire) in 873-4, and excavations at Repton in between 1974-86, revealed direct evidence for their presence around St Wystan’s Church.
In order to fully understand the results of these excavations, the research project is working to clarify the nature and size of the Viking encampments at Repton, and nearby Foremark through excavations and survey work.
Discoveries include a wide range of material culture from the 9 th century, as well as burials and workshops.
Collaborators: Edmund Simons, Professor Mark Horton
Funding sources: Various
Image - Anchor Caves, Foremark, Derbyshire (3-D model generated through drone imagery)
The soft sandstones of the English Midlands are home to numerous rock-cut buildings.
These range from ancient monastic complexes to 19 th century rock houses.
The project takes a ‘building archaeology’ approach to these structures for the first time to quantify and understand the origins and development of these enigmatic and unusual structures.
Over 50 structures have been identified so far, and careful analysis of their fabric and features allows a chronology to be developed.
The project has identified a number of examples that substantially survive from the pre-Conquest period, including the caves at Foremark (Derbyshire), associated with the exiled Northumbrian king and Saint Hardulf / Eardwulf (fl 790-830).

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/agriculture-food-and-the-environment/environment/about-environment-studies:
Do you see yourself pursuing a career as an ecological consultant, a field ecologist, a biodiversity officer, or perhaps a wildlife reserve or country park manager?
RAU graduates from these degree programmes have gone on to work with the National Trust, the Wildlife Trusts, RSPB  and FWAG, as well as Natural England, the Environment Agency, along with heritage organisations such as Historic England and Cotswold Archaeology.
Students have regular contact with people and organisations working within the environmental sector, and incorporate a blend of ‘real world’ field-based learning alongside the more traditional campus-based study approaches.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/equine-management-and-science/about:
Due to our close links with equine enterprises, you can gain a firsthand appreciation of the business aspects and the day-to-day running of equestrian sporting events.
Gain transferable skills in science and business and complete an industry work placement to boost your employability.
You will be equipped to progress to managerial positions in companies such as Dengie, bloodstock and equestrian accountants including Smith and Williamson and laboratories such as Plusvital Equinome.
You will be taught by a team of research-active and industry-linked staff with decades of teaching experience between them.
Members of the equine team publish their work in internationally-renowned journals and we enjoy industry derived research sponsorship from companies such as Haygain Natural Animal Feeds.
Throughout your time with us, we will support and nurture your career aspirations in the global equine sector.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/equine-science:
Much focus has been directed towards improving gut and respiratory health by developing novel feeds and pre-feeding treatments that remove airborne particles from fodder to reduce respiratory diseases.
There is a strong theme around the brain mechanisms that control behaviour in this research cluster, including those that mediate stereotypic behaviour (crib-biting) and other abnormal behavioural traits.
More recently, studies of horse and rider performance have investigated tack and equipment, pressure distribution at the horse-rider interface, and the interrelationship of nutritional and behavioural factors linked to equine performance.
The equine cluster team work closely with a range of industry partners to develop and test new products as well as facilitating knowledge exchange with both equine industry professionals and the wider horse owning public.
Associate Professor Andrew Hemmings
Dr Charlotte Sinclair
Tracy Bye
Emma Briggs PhD
'Haylage for horses: A system for accurate on-farm assessment of quality and determining how ‘quality’ may reflect nutrient profile'
Emily Orchard PhD
‘Cognitive function and learning capabilities in the stereotypy performing horse’
Emma Taylor MScR
'The effect of Bentonite and Psyllium husk on the gut microbiome of horses who have displayed free faecal water'
Ella Scott MScR
'Determining energy requirements in  ponies'
'A prospective study into the clinical signs, characteristics, and diagnosis of horses presenting with impinging dorsal spinous processes and facet joint arthritis'
In September 2024, Dr Andrew Hemmings, Associate Professor Equine Research Leadership, and Dr Simon Daniels, Associate Professor Equine Management and Science, both attended World Horse Welfare’s Glenda Spooner Farm in Somerset to film a session for World Horse Welfare’s “Horses Explained”.
A pan industry group called “Controlling ANTiparasitic resistance in Equines Responsibly (CANTER)”, led by the Veterinary Medicines Directorate (VMD) and a group of stakeholder vets, academics and the industry, has developed and published a set of best practice guidelines on sustainable parasite control for horses.
In October 2024, Tracy Bye, Senior Lecturer in Animal Science and Programme Leader FdSc Equine Management, undertook a research study in association with staff from Loughborough University School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, as part of her PhD research.
Academic and industry collaborators : Professor Meriel Moore-Colyer, Haygain Ltd, Nottingham University
Funding source: Haygain Ltd
Equine respiratory disease is highly prevalent in our horse population with anything between 80- 95% occurrence in performance horses and thoroughbred racehorses.
The most debilitating form of these is severe Equine Asthma (sEA) which manifests as loss of performance, coughing and respiratory distress at rest.
Airborne respirable dust (ARD) in the stable is a well-known cause of this allergic condition, and for the last 10 years Prof Moore-Colyer has led the collaborative project with Haygain Ltd and University of Nottingham to elucidate the main allergens in stable dust and find effective and practical ways to reduce the dust: horse interaction.
This work has led to the development of the Haygain range of high-temperature hay steamers which have been proven to reduce ARD by 99%, killing fungal spores and reducing bacteria by 90%.
The recent work supported by the Fred and Marjory Sainsbury Trust, by PhD student Sam White expanded current knowledge on allergens for sEA showing that larger ARD such as tree and grass pollen and latex rubber previously unknown to be problematic for stabled horses, are in fact very strong allergens.
Maintaining gut and respiratory health while providing the necessary nutrients to keep horses healthy has also been a strong theme throughout this work and MScR projects carried out by Becky James, Jessica Taylor, Jacob Hepworth and Abby Hooky have examined a range of different aspects relating to nutrient and microbial contents of treated forage and management techniques to ensure horses have the best air quality and hygienic forage when stabled.
Work is on-going in collaboration with research groups in Canada, USA and Europe supported by a vibrant knowledge exchange programme so horse owners can benefit from the latest research.​
Academic collaborators : Associate Professor Simon Daniels, RAU, Professor Jo-Anne Murray, University of Glasgow
Commercial partners: AB Vista and Mars Horsecare
Associate Professor Simon Daniels is currently working on three areas of equine nutrition and digestive health.
The first is a range of digestibility experiments in collaboration with Professor Jo-Anne Murray from the University of Glasgow alongside commercial partners AB Vista and Mars Horsecare.
These studies are focussed upon improving fibre digestibility and therefore focus on feeding differing fibre diets to ponies alongside probiotics or differing pre-feeding treatments to the feed to improve fibre degradability in the horse.
Fibre is the most important element of a horse’s diet and improving our understanding on maximising digestibility of this substrate is paramount to horse health and welfare.
Our work involves monitoring feed intake and feeding behaviour in the ponies and using free catch faeces to determine the nutrient apparent digestibility of the diets.
Alongside these nutrition studies, we are developing an improved in vitro digestibility system which is being validated alongside our involvement with in vivo digestibility trials.
Whilst currently in vivo studies feeding ponies and measuring output are seen as the gold standard,  lab-based models are much more economic and time saving and reduce the use of animals in research.
We are working with colleagues at Glasgow, Wageningen and Utrecht Universities to develop a total tract equine digestion in the laboratory which closely resembles that achieved when feeding horses.
The third area we are currently investigating is the links between a horse’s gut brain axis through the microbial community profile and metabolic profile of faecal samples as a proxy for the horse’s hindgut and using non-invasive probes of neurological activity.
It appears the diet can influence gut health, overall health and behaviour and we are currently exploring this in horses to identify how diet may influence diet, behaviour and welfare.
Academic collaborators: Associate Professor Andrew Hemmings and Dr Sebastian McBride, Aberystwyth University
Associate Professor Andrew Hemmings and PhD student Emily Orchard, are currently working on the learning capabilities of the stereotypy performance horse using newly developed automated learning tasks.
Stereotypies are characterised as repetitive and rigid behaviours with no apparent function or goal, these behaviours are deemed as abnormal and are often labelled as ‘vices’ (unwanted behaviour), with some owners choosing to focus on preventing the behaviour rather than discovering the underlying cause.
The preventative methods can often be uncomfortable, painful and potentially cause stress to the horse.
This work is developing a system for accurately measuring spontaneous blink rate, which is a proven biomarker for dopamine production in horses, and combining this with the newly developed automated learning tasks equipment developed at RAU in 2019.
Common assumptions held within the equine industry will also be addressed in order to improve current knowledge and understanding of stereotype.
The overall aim is to determine if learning in stereotypy performing horses is different to normal horses and how this might impact upon practical training advice and thus reduce the use of negative management techniques for these horses.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/real-estate-and-land-management/about:
With the opportunity to complete a work placement during your time with us, you will gain industry contacts and could secure employment even before you graduate.
With both degrees accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), you will study a course which is relevant to industry and the first step to becoming a fully qualified chartered surveyor, if that is your career aspiration.
You will gain a deep knowledge and understanding of current business issues, practice and policy in the sector under the guidance of lecturers with extensive professional and academic experience.
You will also gain industry insight through study visits and real-life case studies.
Develop your skills, your business acumen, your networks and your confidence with us.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/subject-areas/real-estate-and-land-management/staff:
Dr Stephen Agyeman-Yeboah

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/land-and-property/accreditations:
If you are interested in finding out more about the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), they have produced this short video highlighting their work .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/clearing-video:
The RAU appealed to me because I've had friends previously come and they've told me how amazing it's been, so I looked into it and I've looked  into other unis as well but the RAU seemed to suit me the best.
The experience of the clearing process for me was quite quick because I decided in summer to come to uni.
The admissions team you spoke to and they were great, not scary, like it's easy and straightforward.
I love the student life, I like how it's small and it was so easy to come in and make  friends.
The social aspect is really good.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/clearing/students-talk-about-joining-through-clearing:
I did a BTEC in equine management at Bishop Burton College and had always thought that I would go on to university.
But then Covid hit and I decided that I didn’t want to do any more studying so I started working as a groom.
I worked on quite a few different yards – including at Chatsworth House in Derbyshire which was amazing – but, while I really loved the job, I realised that there isn’t necessarily any progression in that career and I knew it wasn’t something I wanted to be doing for the rest of my life.
I decided I need to push myself but, when I started looking for jobs, I realised that I would need a degree to get the sort of job I wanted so I went back to my original plan of applying to uni.
I applied to the RAU, and a few other universities, through Clearing.
I was offered a place at both the RAU and Harper Adams but I chose the RAU and I’m so pleased I did.
I’ve really enjoyed my time here and have made some great friends.
I can’t believe I’m about to head into my final year.
I would like to work as a Land Agent and, over Easter, I did my work placement with Savills which was a really great experience.
I would advise anyone out there who is thinking about applying through Clearing to look into it and make sure you are really interested in the degree that is being offered.
Give it a go – you’ve got nothing to lose and perhaps everything to gain!
I took a gap year after sixth form and then, at the end of that, I applied to study Business Management at both the RAU and Harper Adams.
I was offered a place at both unis but I chose Harper Adams.
It’s only about 20 minutes away from home and I knew it a bit, as I had done a few things there while I was at school, so that was where I thought I wanted to go.
I was planning to live at home and commute to uni.
But then I came to the RAU campus – to help my friend, who is a student at the RAU, to move in - the day before I was due to start at Harper.
That was the first time I’d visited the campus and, as soon as I saw the RAU, I knew that was where I wanted to be.
I think Harper was just too close to home and, having seen the RAU campus, I decided that I really wanted to experience living on campus.
I contacted the RAU the following day to see if there was availability on the course I wanted and any accommodation on campus.
Luckily there was both and I was offered a place which I accepted straight away.
I was even able to get a room in Coad Court which is where I wanted to be.
Everyone I spoke to at the RAU through the whole process was great and really helpful.
It was all really easy.
It took about 10 days before I eventually got here and started my course but as soon as I arrived on campus, and moved into my room, I knew that this was right and where I wanted to be.
If anyone out there is considering Clearing I would tell them to just go for it!
You might think it’s a lengthy process – and it does take a few days to get everything sorted – but the RAU made it really easy for me and, in the end, it’s so much better to be in the place you want to be.
Having done my A levels at Sixth Form, I took a gap year which I had always planned to do.
I had accepted a place at Cardiff Met to study Sports Business Management but, in the summer of my gap year, I decided I wanted to change to study straight Business Management.
I tried to change course at Cardiff Met but they couldn’t accommodate that so I had to rethink.
I looked around and the saw that the RAU offered Business Management and it appealed as it is right on my doorstep which meant I could still work while I studied and also I could still live at home.
I was getting really late and it was all a bit of a scramble but, when I called the RAU, everyone I spoke to was really helpful and gave me everything I needed.
They were even able to get me in for an Open Day so I could see the campus before I joined.
I really liked that as it is a quiet small campus which is exactly what I wanted.
Luckily, because my A level grades were OK and there was space on the course, I was offered a place only about two to three days after I put in my Clearing application.
I think some people initially think that there is a stigma to applying to uni through Clearing and might find it a bit embarrassing but there really isn’t.
If you’re thinking about it – stop thinking and just do it!
It doesn’t matter at all how you get there but what really matters is that you get onto the course you want at a uni you are happy with.
Due to the uncertainty of how the pandemic would affect my studies (foolishly thinking COVID would only be around for a year!), I decided to take a year out after completing sixth form.
I was set to study Security Studies at Canterbury Christchurch and, during my year out I did an online Bachelor's degree in Counterterrorism and Transnational Crime with an Australian university which I found fascinating.
However, the realisation that the rest of my adult life would potentially be spent sitting in an office in the middle of London, living the city-life, panicked me as I am an outdoorsy person through and through.
Despite not coming from a farming background, I have always picked up as much work experience on farms, and riding and racing yards, as I could, trying to spend as little time inside as possible.
After meeting some RAU graduates whilst working in racing, I realised that perhaps an agricultural university might be more suited to me.
So, on the off chance that the RAU had space for me, I applied through clearing, just 10 days before I was due to move down to Canterbury.
I called the RAU Admissions team to see if there was room for me on the Agricultural Business course.
Sadly there wasn’t but there was space on the Agriculture course which I was told was very similar.
After confirming that it was possible for me to enrol, I had to bite the bullet and inform Canterbury Christchurch that I would not be joining them.
Although I had never seen the University, having only heard about it through my friends plus a bit of Googling, it was a big risk to take yet I knew deep down it was the right one.
I'm really enjoying my course.
Although I would like there to be more practical sessions, there is still plenty of time for me to gain experience in my own time as well as through my 15 week placement module.
Most of the lecturers come from strong farming backgrounds, either having their own farms or having previously worked in the industry, so their knowledge is of a really high standard.
RAU life is great.
The Uni is set within the most beautiful part of the UK.
In terms of social life, we have some great local pubs, there are loads of shops in town including many charity shops to find something wacky for a REVA themed night or sports socials!
There are new societies coming out all the time - ranging from your typical sports teams through to ‘cheese and wine’ clubs and mountaineering.
There is something for everyone.
We all share the same core interests so it's easy to strike up a conversation with fellow students.
For me, I have found it super easy to pick up yard work - there are loads of equine teams looking for extra pairs of hands and they understand the need for us to be flexible to work around lectures.
Local dairies are also always looking for relief milkers so that you can top up your ‘beer money’!
Sometimes taking that leap is the right thing to do.
Clearing is a really stressful situation but try not to panic.
The University understands how worried you are and they really are doing their best to keep you informed on your academic and accommodation applications.
They will get back to you as quickly as they can so try to be patient.
I was originally offered a deferred place to study the Foundation Agriculture and Farm Management course at the RAU as I had thought I wanted to take a gap year but I hadn’t really made any plans for the year, or got any real idea of what I was going to do.
At the start of what should have been my gap year, I was quite bored and I came along to see some friends who had joined the RAU.
We went to a few student events and I just decided that I wanted to come to the RAU that year instead.
As I was wanting to change my deferred place, I had to apply again, for that year, through Clearing but I was offered a place on the course I wanted and, luckily, there was still some accommodation available.
As a result, I arrived three weeks after everyone else but that wasn’t a problem at all.
I’m now in my second year and it’s been so much fun.
I was RAG Chair last year and this coming year I have been elected to be RAG secretary.
It’s great to get involved.
My message to anyone thinking of applying to the RAU through Clearing – or anyone who has changed their mind like I did – is just do it!
Even if you haven’t got the grades, just call the RAU and ask if they are able to offer you a place – you might get it, you might not, but you’ve got nothing to lose by trying.
You miss every shot you don’t take and you must take every opportunity.
I’m so glad I joined when I did.
My year is great – I’ve made loads of really good mates and we have had a lot of parties!
Oh, and obviously I’ve done a lot of studying too!
I know where the library is!
I’ll see how I go but I’m thinking I might apply to do the top up and stay for another year!
Please use this form to request a Clearing offer if you wish to start an undergraduate course in September 2025.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/undergraduate-clearing-open-afternoon-2025:
You can:
**Please note this event is only for students who have applied through Clearing to study at the RAU in September 2025.**

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/living-on-campus-in-university-accommodation:
There are a lot of benefits to living on-campus at the RAU.
You’ll get to know the University, have your lectures on your doorstep and be right in the heart of the action.
We have a mixture of catered and self-catered accommodation with the half board option as standard.
The bedrooms are a mixture of standard rooms with shared bathroom facilities and en-suite rooms, and we offer quiet bedrooms for students who prefer a more tranquil environment.
Have a look at the halls of residence guide for more details about our halls of residence and the accommodation each of them has to offer.
You can find a transcript of the video here.
Your room will not just be a place to study and sleep, it will be your space to call home and the location will play a key part of meeting new people and making new friends.
Living on-campus is a great way to meet fellow students and to be where the action is, and comes with many benefits such as:
Free parking is available on-campus.
Please register your vehicle online using the student portal.
Registered vehicles can only be parked on campus in student spaces and is on a first come, first parked basis.
Half board catering meal options are available as part of your package and additionally lunch is available to purchase in The Restaurant , offering a selection of hot and cold dishes.
Catering staff are able to cater for special dietary needs but please advise of your requirements at the time of booking your accommodation.
**For Academic year 2025-26 we are now also able to offer postgraduate students short term stays in our Main Building.
These rooms are subject to availability so please contact shortstay@rau.ac.uk regarding further information and prices, in advance of your proposed dates.
Disabled and neurodivergent students who need a room that is not a standard room type (shared kitchen and bathroom) can contact Student Services StudentServices@rau.ac.uk to enquire about partial funding that may be available due to a disability related need.
The University will consider the application and then, if agreed, pay the cost difference between a standard room and the alternative room type, which a disabled student requires to support their disability.
Please share any medical evidence which supports the need for adjustments to standard student accommodation with Student Services StudentServices@rau.ac.uk .
All applications should be made through the myRAU accommodation applicants portal.
You will receive instructions on how to access the portal once you have accepted your offer of a place to study at the RAU.
You will then receive confirmation of your application submission.
Once we have processed your application, you will receive your provisional room offer and will need to pay a £300 deposit.
This deposit will be returned to you at the end of the academic year, less any charges that have been incurred during the contract dates.
The deposit will be refunded to students who do not meet the necessary requirements to join the University.
You will also be asked to sign an accommodation contract and set up your payment plan.
Please make sure you have read the accommodation terms and conditions before signing the contract.
The contract must be signed, the deposit paid and payment plan set up within 14 days of receipt in order to ensure your room is available to you on arrivals day.
If you choose not to take up your accommodation, having been offered a room, you must inform the University within seven days.
We will do our best to allocate you the type of accommodation you would most like but cannot guarantee this.
Rooms are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis.
For queries regarding accommodation, please contact accommodation@rau.ac.uk .
For payment queries, please contact studentfees@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/why-cirencester:
With its pretty Cotswold streets and medieval wool merchants’ houses, buzzing social scene and great nightlife it’s easy to see why so many students never want to leave Cirencester - even after graduating!
Cirencester, known as the ‘Capital of the Cotswolds’ is a thriving student town with a great sense of history awash with museums, art galleries, speciality shops, boutiques, delis and antiques and collectables markets.
Just a 15-minute stroll from the University, the market town has an eclectic, artisan feel popular with all ages.
However, the more serious shoppers head to Bath and Cheltenham or the fashionable designer outlet villages in nearby Swindon and Bicester to grab a bargain.
Cirencester is a great night out, whatever your taste.
Clubs, pubs, bars, restaurants - there really is something for everyone.
Firm student favourites are dedicated student club nights at ‘Seventeen Black’ and ‘Reva’ as well as the infamous signature cocktails at ‘Somewhere Else’.
There’s also some great country pubs nearby.
Cirencester has plenty of green space to enjoy.
Cirencester Park in the centre of the town is an ideal place to take your books and revise in the sun.
In the warmer months, many students enjoy swimming in natural spring water at the park Lido, the oldest open-air swimming pool in the UK dating back to 1869.
For the sportier individuals, Cotswold Water Park offers kayaking, canoeing, sailing, rowing, wakeboarding, and windsurfing across its magnificent 150 lakes.
For some fast fun on the water, why not have a go at an inflatable ride, being towed along at great speeds on doughnuts, ringos, or bananas?
All these high speed, wet water, white-knuckle rides are just 15 minutes away from the University campus.
Hugely popular days out enjoyed by students throughout the year include Badminton Horse Trials, Cheltenham Festival, Race Days and Point to Points and sporting days out at Gloucester or Bath Rugby.
With Bath, Bristol, Oxford, and Cheltenham all within an hour’s drive of the University; and hourly direct trains to London Paddington (just 80 minutes away) Cirencester is geographically well placed.
Why not join us and make the ‘Capital of the Cotswolds’ your home?

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/catering:
The Restaurant is on the east side of the main quadrangle, serving a range of high quality, healthy and hearty meals.
The menu changes with the seasons and we like to provide variety, taking note of significant days or weeks, and catering for all diets.
We take sourcing our ingredients very seriously, favouring ethical, higher welfare and local producers who use responsible methods to minimise wastage, packaging and environmental impact.
Alongside this we have set a goal of using 70% British produce by the end of the academic year 2019/20 – the first university to our knowledge to set such a target.
We were delighted when this was recognised by our Catering and Hospitality team being awarded the awarded the coveted Sustainability Award at the U Dine Network Awards 2025 -  an accolade sponsored by the NUS Charity that honours those "pushing boundaries and shaping a greener future" in university catering.
View a sample lunch menu (PDF)
View a sample dinner menu (PDF)
Non-residents can pay at the servery for meals.
See below if you have purchased a meal plan.
Meal plans are sold as half board and are loaded as tokens onto your RAU Unicard.
Meal tokens can only be used in the Restaurant; your daily tokens will expire at the end of the allocated day and cannot be carried over.
Term time only
Half board
(14 meals per week)
Monday - Friday
The Catering team are able to cater for special diets but please advise us of your requirements when booking your accommodation.
We would love to have your feedback and are happy to answer any questions or queries you may have about the Restaurant, simply email accommodation@rau.ac.uk
The Retreat Café is situated in the Atrium between the Emrys Jones Building and the Library, students are welcome to come in to relax, socialise and study.
The café serves barista coffee from Mozzo to enjoy on one of our comfy sofas or takeaway.
Mozzo echo the RAU’s values around sustainability and the environment, investing 5p for every kg of coffee sold into the C2C Fund .
The Retreat Café serves a wide range of goods including homemade and pre-prepared hot and cold sandwiches, Paninis and wraps as well as a selection of healthy or indulgent snacks and cold drinks.
Regular opening times are:
Monday – Friday 8:30 – 16:30
We will update you on any changes to these opening hours (such as public holidays) via the digital display screens around campus and your weekly RAU email newsletter.
The RAU Shop is located next to The Retreat Café in the Atrium and provides a great range of essentials including local and RAU produced products, snacks, treats, clothing and merchandise.
You can also browse our assortment of alumni products such as: greeting cards, clothing by ODMax, Severan Hills Jerky, and Cotswold Hills Wine.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/library:
If you are a registered student or a member of staff at the University please go to the Library site on Gateway to access our subscribed e-resources.
You will need to log in with your University login details.
You can also search our library catalogue Heritage .
The mission of the University Archives is to serve as the official memory of the Royal Agricultural University.
Its role is to collect, preserve and make accessible primary source material that forms a unique resource documenting the culture and history of the University.
It consists of a fascinating mix of images, correspondence, minutes, student lists, accounts, legal and financial documents, etc.
that together document the history of the University since its foundation in 1845.
For any further information please email: archive@rau.ac.uk .
The University library is also custodian of a collection of historical books, some of which date back to the 16th century.
The collection of over 1,000 volumes covers a wide range of subjects, but with the emphasis on all aspects of farming and rural life.
Members of the public are welcome, by prior appointment, to view our Historical Collection of which we are justifiably proud.
Please be aware that we are only able to register new Band A, B and C members during 'office hours', i.e.
9am - 5pm, Monday to Friday.
Band R members are not affected.
Library

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/campus-facilities/rau-gym:
Situated in the heart of the Campus, the RAU Gym offers a safe, friendly and more personal training environment to suit all your needs.
Fitted out with a range of cardiovascular machines, resistance machines and free weights, the RAU Gym has everything you need to achieve a healthy body and a healthy mind.
Membership is reasonably priced and you can pay annually or termly.
To find out more about the gym, or to book the sports hall or any of the exercise classes, please email gym@rau.ac.uk .
The gym is open daily from 6:30am - 10:00pm.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/IT-services:
There are Windows Desktop PCs available in the Library as well as two computer rooms, one open 24 hours a day, year round (Atrium).
There are colour printers available in the Library Foyer and the Atrium computer room, with photocopying and scanning ability.
There are also two communal areas equipped with screens for collaborative working, and Wi-Fi access is available throughout all University buildings.
Once you’ve completed your registration process, you’ll be able to install Microsoft Office 365 free of charge on up to five of your personal devices.
All our PCs have Microsoft Office 365, Genstat, SPSS, Read and Write 12, Mindgenius and SensusAccess (to name but a few applications), as well as a provide a wide range of specialised software, including geographical information systems and agricultural management packages.
All lecture presentations and other teaching resources are available on Gateway, our virtual learning environment, which students can access remotely, at any time of the day or night.
Students also have access to support from a dedicated IT Service Desk.
The University provides a range of facilities for students that need extra support.
We provide the following assistive software packages on all of our university PCs:
Once you’ve completed your registration, you’ll be able to access detailed information on all of these products, and other services we provide to help our students, in Gateway, our online learning environment.
Wi-fi is available in all accommodation areas, and all residential rooms on campus have a network socket.
All students can bring their own laptops, tablets, and smartphones and use our network for academic purposes and for personal internet access.
We recommend either a Windows or Apple Mac laptop with the following minimum specification:
We strongly advise against relying on Chromebooks, iPads and other tablets as your primary device, as these won’t support the additional teaching and learning software that we provide free of charge.
We also strongly recommend a headset for online interactive sessions.
You must, for your own safety online, make sure that you have up to date anti-virus software installed on your computer.
While we cannot recommend a specific anti-virus package, there are many sites which compare the different packages available, such as this one:
https://www.which.co.uk/reviews/antivirus-software-packages/article/how-to-choose-the-best-antivirus-software
Whichever package you choose, you must make sure that you continually keep it up to date.
A full range of ‘how to’ guides are available to help everyone get started.
Our IT Service Desk is located in the Library and is open from 8:30 to 5:30 every weekday.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/campus-facilities/medical-service:
You can register with the Phoenix Surgery online .
You can request an appointment with the Phoenix Health Group here.
You can do any of the following:
If you need to call 999 for any reason, then you MUST immediately inform the Porter's Lodge (01285 652531 x2200) or after 8:00pm (7:00pm at weekends) the University security staff (01285 889834).
This is to enable them to support you and undertake the necessary emergency plans.
Please report to the Porter's Lodge (01285 652531 x2200) and they will contact the duty first aider.
In the event of a medical emergency in the evenings and weekends there will be a member of security staff available to offer support and advice.
Tel no: 01285 889834 (after 8:00pm weekdays or 7:00pm at weekends).
Phoenix Surgery

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/the-rau-unicard:
Your RAU Unicard is a ‘contactless smart card’ and allows you to:
If you are a student, you will also use your RAU Unicard to:
What information is on a RAU Unicard?
The RAU Unicard chip does not store any personal information such as your date of birth, only your student or staff ID number and your RAU Unicard number.
The information that is printed on the card is as follows:
Student Unicards:
Staff Unicards:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/social/students-union:
The Students’ Union has its own office and shop on campus located next to the Tithe Barn.
Drop in and have a chat or pick up your latest branded goods and sports kit.
Your elected union officers are here to help you settle in, to make your voice heard and listen to your ideas for social events or new clubs and societies.
Your first week on campus can feel daunting but the SU are here to help and provide events for you to get properly settled in to Ciren life.
Events include a UV party, mixology classes, movie nights, pub crawls around the town and many other exciting events.
Welcome Week also gives students the chance to meet and join societies and sports and get to know the lovely people of Cirencester.
The week culminates with the Freshers’ Festival which had over 500 attendees in 2023 and is the first of many larger events and an important part of the RAU experience.
On top of the large events the SU provides, there are also regular social nights throughout the week.
These often take place in the Tithe Barn, which is used throughout the day by students to meet up with friends, play pool or watch TV.
On Tuesdays and Thursdays there are often pub quizzes, karaoke’s or excursions ran by both the SU and individual societies.
The main party nights are Wednesdays, before heading to a nightclub, and on Fridays, when the SU organises ‘Tithe Fridays’, normally featuring a DJ or live band.
The University bar is open every night of the week for you to let your hair down and catch up with friends.
The Students’ Unions first ball of the year!
It’s time to get dressed up for a glamourous night of dancing and partying on Campus
RAG (Raising & Giving) week is all about raising money for charities and having fun too.
The week features charity auctions, the infamous tractor pull, a Clay Shoot, Volunteering opportunities and lots of generally dressing-up and getting into the spirit.
There is also plenty of RAG merchandise to buy from the SU Shop which all helps in giving the charities the most we can.
The biggest ball of the year and the main event in the RAU social diary.
With live bands and top DJs, a funfair and partying from dusk 'til dawn dawn this all-nighter is an RAU Classic and an event not to be missed!
The fun carries on at the weekends.
It's a good idea to stay at University, take part in activities and trips to local cities and get to know people away from home.
If you have any suggestions of places you'd like to visit just let the Students' Union know.
The RAUSU is your student voice at the University, and you can elect your fellow students to fulfil roles such as Welfare & Liberations Campaigns Officer, Sports & Societies Officer and your RAUSU President .
You could even get involved yourself.
Your Students' Union will ensure you settle in well to student life and have a memorable time whilst at the RAU.
Students' Union

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/social/university-bar:
We strive to create a fun and unique atmosphere where all students feel welcomed.
‘The Tithe’ is the social hub of the University, and caters for many events throughout the year.
Some of these events are;
‘The Tithe’ is open every day from 6:00pm-11:00pm (sometimes later for special events).
We usually have a drink special or two, and we always have great prices throughout the academic year.
So, come on by to your bar, we look forward to seeing you having a great time!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/faith-at-the-rau:
The Chapel of St George the Martyr is situated in the Quad, opposite the entrance to the dining room.
It is an ecumenical Christian chapel and is open to students for worship, music, reflection and meditation on a daily basis.
Services are held on Thursday evenings at 6:00pm in the chapel during term time, dates and times will be published on the chapel noticeboard.
Please come and join the service or enjoy the stillness of the beautiful chapel at other times when it is open.
The chapel is licensed for marriages and baptisms, and has historically been used by staff and students for such occasions.
Termly student services are held including Remembrance, Harvest, Christmas carols and Easter.
The main aim of the multi-faith Chaplaincy is to support all students and staff at the University, to support all faiths and none within “faith in the university”.
To achieve this overall aim, the chaplaincy is seeking to provide additional associate chaplains of other faiths.
The chaplaincy offer opportunities to share with others in worship and in other informal groups for further awareness such as Bible study, prayer times and meditation, social occasions and one-to-one conversation.
Details of these will be advertised on the social calendar and university notice boards.
The Chapel is supported by three chaplains appointed by the university – Revd Canon Graham Morris, lead Chaplain, supported by Chaplain and Senior Pastor Matt Frost and Associate Chaplain Jessica Price.
The chaplains visit the university on a weekly basis (hours vary) and are available for appointment by request.
The Cirencester Churches Together Group also has details of all Christian churches in the town, which are provided in the chapel lobby.
In addition to the chapel, we also have a faith and reflection room for the use of all faiths and the chaplaincy assistants offer a multi-faith contact point.
Akanishta Buddhist Centre, Cheltenham
Hindu Community Centre and Temple, Cheltenham
Cheltenham Synagogue, Cheltenham
Masjidul Al-Madina Mosque, Cheltenham
Masjidul Falah Mosque, Cheltenham
Masjid-e-Noor Mosque, Gloucester ,
Jamia al Karim Mosque, Gloucester
Salvation Army, Cirencester
Cirencester Quaker Meeting House
Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses, Cirencester
Gloucester Seventh-day Adventist Church
Organ – The key is available from the Porter's Lodge in exchange for your identity card, with the Chaplain’s prior approval.
Piano – available in the Chapel.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/student-funding-explained:
Here is a short video explaining more about student loans and how they work.
For further information here too:
Types of help for full-time higher education students can include:
Tuition Fee loans up to £9,535 for full time students and up to £7,145 for part time students.
Your tuition fee loan will be paid directly to your university by the Student Loans Company .
This loan is to help you with the cost of living whilst at university, for example day-to-day costs, such as accommodation, travel, food and utility bills.
All students who’ve been permanently resident in the UK in the three years prior to the course commencing are entitled to receive a student maintenance loan.
The RAU is a registered Higher Education provider.
For more information visit the Office for Students website .
Applying for student finance is a straightforward process.
The types of funding available include tuition fee loans, maintenance loans to cover your living expenses as well as extra help if you have a child, disability or an adult dependant - make sure you apply for everything you’re eligible for.
Tuition fees are set by the university.
If you apply for a tuition fee loan this is paid directly to the university.
Maintenance loans can also be applied for and are intended to cover your living expenses.
This loan is paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term.
You can work out what you may be eligible to borrow here: www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator .
Visit the following links to find the right loan application form for you, with accompanying guidance:
With these loans, you won't need to pay anything upfront when you start university.
You only start to repay the loans when you've graduated and are in full-time employment (earning £25,000 or over from April 2018).
If you have applied for a student loan before, even if it was for a different university, you could still be eligible to apply for another one from the Student Loans Company, for up to a maximum of four years for full-time undergraduate study.
If you wish to change course and have not received all of this funding, you may be able to receive part or full funding for another course, depending on the length.
Please check with Student Finance England or your funding body.
Students from EU and EEA countries may be able to apply for a tuition fee loan if you have lived in the UK for the past three years years.
You can find out more here: gov.uk/student-finance/eu-students .
You can apply as soon as the portal opens for applications, you do not need to know your first choice of university.
Don’t wait until you have your exam results or until you’ve been given a conditional offer - the sooner you apply, the sooner your money will be available when you start your course.
If you don’t get into your first choice of university, or change your mind, you can simply change your application to another course or university, or cancel your application.
New students living in England should apply by 31 May, you can apply after this date, but it's not guaranteed that you'll receive it in time for September.
Continuing students should apply by 21 June.
You’ll need to apply for funding for each year of your studies as each application is only valid for one academic year.
It can take up to six weeks to process your application.
Keep checking the progress of your application via the online portal.
Once your loan is approved, that’s it - you don’t need to do anything else unless you decide to change your course.
More information about applying can be found here: studentfinance.campaign.gov.uk .
Tuition Fee loans up to £9,250 for full time students and up to £6,935 for part time students.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/paying-your-undergraduate-tuition-and-accommodation-fees:
To enable the University to determine your classification status for fees purposes as either UK or overseas/international fee paying student we may ask you to provide the following information:
For UK students, European students with settled status, Irish nationals and all returning students.
Annually in advance by debit or credit card.
Payable in September for October course starts (January for February start dates).
Payments are made via the Student Portal
If someone else is paying your tuition fees then these can be paid in two ways:
Important notes:
Remember, if you wish us to discuss your finances with someone else i.e.
Parent/Guardian/Sponsor, you must email the Student Fees department on studentfees@rau.ac.uk in advance to give your written authorisation.
Due to the UK's strict anti-money laundering regulations :
Any refunds given must be returned to the originating bank account or can be held over to reduce the following year’s fees.
Please ensure that you have read and understood the terms and conditions for payment of fees policy and the refund policy.
Please see Student Finance Policies .
For first year International or first year European students (i.e.
EU, non-EU EEA and Swiss citizens.
Irish nationals are exempted) with non-settled status or those who have been requested to make a payment before the student portal is open.
Your tuition fees are payable in advance.
An initial deposit of £2,000 is payable on acceptance of an offer of a place at the RAU.
This payable by 1 August.
The balancing amount is then payable in full.
The payment is due before the start of semester 1 (21 September 2025).
If you are a new overseas/international student then these payments can be made in two ways:
If you are a returning overseas/international student then these payments can be made in three ways:
You need to apply for your University accommodation .
The accommodation fees are shown on this page and depend on the type of room and whether you are paying for your food from The Restaurant (half board: breakfast and dinner).
Instructions on how to pay your University accommodation fees are below.
The fees are the same for all students but how you pay them depends on whether you are classified as a UK or overseas/international student.
If you are renting a property from a private landlord, then this does not apply to you.
However, students are advised to speak to the University Student Lettings team for general advice about safe renting.
If you are taking out a student loan from Student Finance England / Scotland / Wales / Northern Ireland, then the living costs element will be paid directly to you.
Your maintenance loan will be paid into your bank account (the one you provided details for during your application) once you have fully registered on your course.
As this payment doesn't usually happen on your first day at the RAU, we recommend that you make sure you've budgeted enough money for your first one or two weeks.
Your maintenance loan will be paid in three termly installments (October, January and April).
Your University accommodation fees can be paid in two ways:
Payments are made via the Accommodation Hub
You will need to log on to the Accommodation Hub and set up your payments.
This should be completed at the same time as accepting your accommodation offer.
Payments are scheduled and not taken immediately (unless you are late in setting up your payments).
If you are in receipt of a maintenance loan, there will be the option to request that the dates are adjusted to coincide with the scheduled payments dates from your student loans company.
You must make arrangements to pay for your accommodation before you arrive at the RAU.
If you are having difficulties in making payment then please contact studentfees@rau.ac.uk .
You will be responsible for paying your accommodation fees to the University.
Your accomodation fees are payable annually in advance.
Returning overseas/international students can pay termly in advance using a debit or credit card.
Your University accommodation fees can be paid in three ways:
There is an online RAU shop from which you can purchase meal tickets, referral fees, replacement ID cards, gifts etc.
Please make yourself familiar with the various University student finance policies for the current and prior years.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/postgraduate-funding-your-time-at-university:
There are a few differences in funding your time at university for postgraduate students and our Student Fees team is here to offer support and advice to help you.
Email studentfees@rau.ac.uk .
For some useful information on managing your finances you can read The Student Money Manual produced by The Money Charity .
This usually includes teaching costs, registration and examination fees (excluding repeat or trailing modules, re-sit fees or coursework re-submission).
The tuition fee you will be charged and the support available is determined by your fee status, which will be UK or international/overseas.
Please note: The fees listed on this website represent those payable by new postgraduate students starting in 2025.
Course charges will be reviewed annually and may rise in line with inflation and any other permitted increases announced by government each year.
Full details of postgraduate fees for 2025/26 are shown below:
In addition the following general charges may apply:
On receipt of your application, the University will assess the level of fees that you'll be required to pay during your study.
To enable us to determine your classification status for fees purposes as either a UK or international fee paying student we may ask you to provide the following information:
In certain cases, when a fee status assessment cannot be completed based on the information above, we may ask you to complete a fee status assessment questionnaire.
We offer some courses on a fixed part-time basis, please refer to the individual course page for more information.
Please check the individual course pages to see the specific fees for each course.
All experiment costs to be paid by self-funding students.
Any supervisor travel costs to be paid by self-funding students.
Please note part-time students from non-UK countries are currently unable to enrol on research degrees due to visa regulations.
Additionally, alumni may also be eligible for other funding in the form of scholarships, bursaries and awards .
The 20% reduction in fees* is available to visiting students who have completed a minimum of one term of studies at the RAU campus, and also to RAU students studying at one of our UK partner colleges or on one of our International Programmes.
*This applies for 2025 entry.
You can live on campus with a room in one of the halls of residence with the option of full, half-board or self catering.
There is financial support available from the Government to help UK postgraduate students cover the costs of living and studying.
There are two types of loan available: Master's and Doctoral.
Please visit www.gov.uk/funding-for-postgraduate-study for more details of Master's and Doctoral loans.
You may be entitled to Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs) from the government.
Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs) are grants from the government to help pay the extra essential costs you may have as a direct result of your disability, including a long-term health condition, mental-health condition or specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia or dyspraxia.
You don’t have to pay these back
For both full-time and part-time postgraduate students there’s a single allowance of up to £26,948 which can cover:
There are different forms of financial support on offer to prospective postgraduates.
Please visit our bursaries, awards and scholarships page for more information.
For any further assistance email scholarships@rau.ac.uk .
However, the university strongly recommends that your paid employment is no more than 10 hours per week so that you have time to concentrate on your studies.
It is very important that you check that your visa permits you to undertake paid employment.
If in doubt, contact the RAU payroll team on studentfees@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/paying-your-postgraduate-tuition-and-accommodation-fees:
To enable the University to determine your classification status for fees purposes as either a UK or overseas/international fee paying student we may ask you to provide the following information:
Due to the UK's strict anti-money laundering regulations:
The accommodation fees are shown on this page and depend on the type of room and whether you are paying for your food from The Restaurant (half board: bed and breakfast).
Instructions on how to pay your University accommodation fees are below.
The fees are the same for all students but how you pay them depends on whether you are classified as a UK, EU or International student.
If you are taking out a student loan from Student Finance England / Scotland / Wales / Northern Ireland, then this [MB4] will be paid directly to you.
Your loan [MB5] will be paid into your bank account (the one you provided details for during your application) once you have fully registered on your course.
Your loan will be paid in three termly instalments (October, January and April).
If you are in receipt of a loan, there will be the option to request that the dates are adjusted to coincide with the scheduled payments dates from your student loans company.
Your accommodation fees are payable annually in advance.
Returning oversea/international students can pay termly in advance using a debit or credit card.
Your University accommodation fees can be paid in three ways:
Important notes
The RAU online store offers a range of goods and services from various departments, such as dissertation printing, replacement ID cards and short courses, which can be paid for by debit or credit card.
Examination resits and coursework resubmissions should be paid for on the RAU online store .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/fee-status:
For us to determine your classification status for fees purposes as either a Home or Overseas fee paying student we may ask you to provide the following information:
In certain cases, when a fee status assessment cannot be completed based on the information above we may ask you to complete a fee status assessment questionnaire.
Information on fee status can be found on the UKCISA website .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/sports-clubs-and-societies:
There's a broad range of clubs and societies you can join whilst at the RAU, from choir to board games to food and wine.
The RAU Student Union always welcome new ideas for social activities, so if you can’t see something that takes your interest you can always start up your own club or society.
Current societies include:
The University is passionate about its sporting activities, with activities ranging from archery to running and rowing.
Sporting afternoon is on a Wednesday, when many of the teams compete against other universities.
Training takes place throughout the week and is arranged by the individual teams.
There are excellent facilities for sports, both on and off campus, including a gym, an all-weather pitch, squash and tennis courts, a snooker room and table tennis tables.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/support-wellbeing-and-counselling:
You can find the Hub in the Emrys Jones building at the heart of the Cirencester campus – it’s easy for students to access a range of university services.
Visit the Hub’s helpdesk to ask for help with:
The Student Services team is based in the Student Hub and offers students emotional support, practical advice and guidance.
They are a point of contact for students facing all kinds of challenges.
They have specialisms in mental health, positive wellbeing, and disability & neurodivergent support, however they are also available for students facing any challenges ranging from loneliness, stress or anxiety, to relationship issues, bullying and harassment, and everything in between.
The team runs daily drop-in sessions where you can speak with an advisor and, if needed, begin the process of accessing specialist support.
Students can come and speak about absolutely any challenge they may be facing; nothing is too large or too small.
The Student Services team also have bookable appointments; their advisors will ensure that you access all the support available to you.
Sessions with the Student Services team members give you an opportunity to speak to a caring and non-judgemental professional who will listen and give you the space and time you need.
They will always try and offer support but they can also link you up with other teams if the help you require exists elsewhere.
It is not uncommon to face challenges with your mental health and wellbeing during your time at university - it’s a time of big change!
These challenges could range from feeling homesick or lonely, to feeling stressed or anxious about assessments or problems within your friendship group, or it could be that you are managing an emerging or previously diagnosed mental health condition.
Please contact the team at StudentServices@rau.ac.uk .
The Student Services team can also refer students for counselling sessions if they are required.
All RAU students also have access to a Student Assistance Programme by Health Assured.
To access 24/7 support on a range of topics from legal information to mental health, you can call their free student helpline on 0800 028 3766.
You can also search the app store for ‘Wisdom: Learn, Grow, Thrive’ and register using the RAU’s unique code, which you can find in the Student Services area of Gateway.”
Disability & neurodivergent support covers dyslexia and a wide range of other specific learning differences (including dyspraxia, dyscalculia, ADHD, Autism) as well as all physical, medical and mental health conditions that might affect your studies and life at university.
Find out more about the support and advice we offer for students with a disability, dyslexia or learning difference .
You will be allocated a member of academic staff who will be your academic tutor for the whole time you're at University.
After your first meeting at the start of your course you'll have further scheduled meetings to discuss your progress and to offer guidance on your studies.
The student lounge is an alcohol-free space for students to relax and socialise in.
It’s open until 11:00pm daily and you will find games and a TV with a DVD player, comfy chairs and Wi-Fi access.
Peer Support Mentors regularly host game and film nights in this space but you can also organise  your own events!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/support-for-students-with-dyslexia-and-other-disabilities:
We support students with a range of disabilities, learning difficulties, and other health and mental health conditions.
Disabilities we can offer support for are:
Specific learning difficulties (SpLDs) include, but are not limited to dyslexia, dyspraxia, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Mental health difficulties include, but are not limited to depression, anxiety, eating disorders, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), bipolar affective disorder, personality disorders, or psychosis.
Autism is a spectrum condition and affects people in different ways.
Sensory impairments include, but are not limited to visual or hearing impairment, blindness, or deafness (with or without British Sign Language as a first or preferred language).
Mobility difficulties include, but are not limited to paralysis, scoliosis, chronic pain, difficulty walking, or using a wheelchair.
Ongoing health conditions include, but are not limited to arthritis, epilepsy, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, narcolepsy, repetitive strain injury (RSI), cancer, HIV, hepatitis, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, chronic pain, lupus, or chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis (CFS/ME).
If you have another disability, specific learning difficulty, health, or mental health difficulty that is not listed, contact the team to discuss options for support.
Depending on your disability we may require copies of additional documents such as:
Copies should be sent to StudentServices@rau.ac.uk .
All UK home students with disabilities should apply for DSAs to find out what support can be funded.
Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs) can cover some of the extra costs you may have during your studies because of a disability.
DSAs are grants only available to UK home students.
It is not a means tested fund and they do not have to be repaid.
DSAs may fund:
We advise all UK home students with disabilities to apply for DSAs at the same time as applying to university.
Do not delay or your support may not be ready for when you start.
Please contact StudentServices@rau.ac.uk for support in applying.
If you are a DSA Needs Assessor, please click here to download our information pack .
Students contribute the first £200 towards DSAs-funded equipment.
If this contribution would put them in financial hardship, please signpost them to Student Services.
Means-tested help may be available, but this is considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you are a disabled and neurodivergent student and need a room that is not a standard room type (shared kitchen and bathroom) please contact Student Services StudentServices@rau.ac.uk to find out if partial funding is available due to a disability related need.
We will then consider your application and, if agreed, pay the cost difference between a standard room and the alternative room type needed to support your disability.
You will need to share any medical evidence which supports the need for adjustments to standard student accommodation with Student Services StudentServices@rau.ac.uk .
Disability Advisor
Information and advice to applicants with disabilities.
Getting a diagnosis of a specific learning difficulty.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/academic-support:
You will be allocated a member of academic staff who will be your Academic Support Tutor (AST) for your time here.
After your first AST group meeting at the start of each semester you will be regularly invited to meet with your tutor on a one-to-one basis for advice, support or just to talk through any concerns you have.
Academic skills are an integral part of your higher education study and support will be provided by the AST framework that is in place.
In this you will cover topics such as time management, structuring essays, referencing, revision and exam techniques, note-taking, and presentation skills.
Gateway is our virtual learning environment (VLE) where you can access much of the learning and support materials that you will need for your study.
Specific module subject materials, alongside more general support and guidance information are to be found on Gateway.
You can access the University system in the IT suites, via personal laptops at University or anywhere in the world with your username and password.
This also gives you access the library website, including e-journals and an online library catalogue.
As an international student , you are involved in a fantastic and often life changing experience.
However, moving away from home and to a completely new country can mean some big adjustments.
We understand that students may need extra support, either academically and/or personally.
The AST framework also helps with this.
For advice and help with opening bank accounts, visas, council tax, accommodation and registering with the police, you should contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .
The Student Services Team are there to help with any disability issue, as well as general health and wellbeing matters, supporting you in the wider aspects of university life.
So if you have questions and are not sure where to turn drop into the Student Hub.
Students from all backgrounds join the International Society; an inclusive society for all students.
It's a great way to meet new people and really get involved and enjoy your life at the University.
The society runs social activities and celebrates events from the international calendar.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/escalation-world-conflict:
The Royal Agricultural University recognises that several conflicts have escalated in various parts of the world and that these developments are understandably distressing for many members of our university community, particularly those with family, friends, or personal ties to the affected regions.
At this time of heightened uncertainty and concern, we want to reaffirm our commitment to supporting both staff and students impacted by these events.
We recognise the emotional, mental, and academic toll such crises can take, and we encourage you to reach out if you need support.
Please be assured the University is here to support all members of our community, particularly those who are directly affected by these events.
This is a time when we need to look out for each other, especially as some of us may not be physically on campus.
If anyone is in need of support, please reach out to our dedicated support services.
Our Student Services team is here to offer support to all RAU students.
Please do contact the team directly if you want to talk.
If you are a staff member who is concerned about a student who may have been affected, please do contact the Student Services team which will be able to offer help and support.
We stand in solidarity with all those affected by conflict and violence.
Our university is a place of compassion, inclusion, and resilience, and we are here for you.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/pre-arrival-guide/timetable-faqs:
Your timetable can take up to 24 hours to appear after you have been fully registered.
Please check that you have fully completed all three stages of self-registration via the Student Portal (refer to your recent email about this).
Your student portal will say ‘Registered’ once you are fully registered – if your timetable is still not appearing 24 hours after your status starts saying this, please contact Timetabling@rau.ac.uk .
If you have not completed registration before the start of the semester, you may miss your sessions.
If you are having this problem on a weekday during term time, please email Timetabling@rau.ac.uk to request a PDF of your timetable.
This timetable will only be accurate at the time of printing, so please keep checking your timetable on Celcat and Outlook.
If your timetable is blank when you access it outside of term time, please check it again 24 hours later – if there are still no sessions, please email Timetabling@rau.ac.uk .
You may want to try opening the timetable in an incognito/private window or clearing your cache to see if that helps.
The timetable for the first semester is usually released in late summer.
The second semester’s timetable is usually published in November.
Your timetable may appear empty if you check it before all sessions have been scheduled.
It can take a while for the data on Celcat to make it to Outlook and on rare occasions, a change on Celcat may not be reflected on Outlook; please consider the Celcat timetable as the true version and continue to check both on a regular basis.
If your Outlook calendar doesn’t update to show the right sessions after a day, please report this to Timetabling@rau.ac.uk with a screenshot.
If you have missed any classes due to this issue, please email your module leader to discuss your next steps.
This may be because you are trailing a module.
If that’s the case, you are not obligated to attend the sessions again, you will just need to resit the assessments.
Unfortunately it is not possible to move seminars or lectures.
If you were hoping to attend the sessions to refresh your memory but can’t due to a timetable clash, please contact the module leader to discuss how you can catch up after each missed session.
If you are not retaking a module, please email Timetabling@rau.ac.uk and include a screenshot so that we can investigate.
This could be because you recently made a change to your course or elective modules.
If the issue does not resolve itself 24 hours after Registry has confirmed your request has been processed, or you have not requested any changes, please email the details of the modules to Registry@rau.ac.uk .
Please check that the time zone on your device is set to GMT.
The first letters of the room on your timetabled session will help you to find your class:
Please ask at the Student Hub helpdesk in Emrys Jones if you cannot find a room.
Please check your student inbox for updates from your module leader.
You could also message a classmate, ask the Student Hub helpdesk about a room change, or email your module leader.
Your login details will be your student number and the password that you chose when you registered.
If you require a password reset, please contact IT service desk on 01285 889841 or visit them in the library with your student ID.
If you are receiving a different error message, please email a screenshot to IT.Service.Desk@rau.ac.uk .
Sometimes joint teaching sessions take place – as long as you can see one of your module codes listed, please attend.
Occasionally, one-off changes are unavoidable; please check your Celcat timetable and student inbox regularly in case your module leader needs to move or reschedule your session.
Please check this page of the RAU website to find out the semester dates.
Module changes are generally only possible during the first week of a semester – please email your request to Registry@rau.ac.uk .
Core modules cannot be changed at any point.
If the information above hasn’t resolved your enquiry, please contact:
OR

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/pre-arrival-guide/matriculation:
Matriculation is the formal process by which a student enters a university and we want to welcome all our new first year undergraduate and postgraduate students, at the beginning of your university experience, to both the RAU community and to the wider Cirencester community.
The Matriculation Ceremony will take place in the Parish Church of St John Baptist in Cirencester Market Place and, after gowning up at the RAU Campus, our Academic Registrar Dan Shaffer will lead the procession of students and senior members of the RAU Staff, including Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter McCaffery, from campus, through Cirencester Park, into the town and on to the church.
Is Matriculation mandatory to attend?
No, however attendance is encouraged as this welcome is part of the formal programme of induction for incoming students, both undergraduates and postgraduates, it is held once a year in October.
Is this a formal event?
While the event has a formal element to it, we hope you will have fun and enjoy it!
Can I bring a guest?
Unlike Graduation, which is open to guests, the Matriculation ceremony is just for our students as part of your induction.
What if I am unable to walk from campus to the Parish Church?
We will provide a minibus for any students who are physically unable to join the procession.
Please contact us at marketing@rau.ac.uk as soon as possible.
Why are we wearing black gowns?
The Matriculating students will all wear black gowns, typical of those worn at Graduation, however, as Matriculation marks the start of your university journey, rather than the end, you will not have a coloured hood or cap as those are saved for your Graduation day.
Do I need to pay for the gown?
No – we will provide you with the gown free of charge.
There will be a range of sizes available and you don’t need to have booked in advance.
Do I get to keep the gown?
Sorry - no!
Your gown will need to be handed back to RAU staff and colleagues outside the Parish Church after the ceremony.
Once you have handed the gown back you will be given a ticket for a free street food lunch which will be available in Cirencester Market Place.
What should I wear?
Please wear whatever you would like (within reason!) but please do dress a little more smartly than you might for a normal Tuesday morning.
Also, the walk is about a mile so please do wear sensible shoes that you will be comfortable to walk in.
Will there be first aid available?
Yes – first aid coverage will be provided for both the procession and the ceremony.
If you need first aid, please contact any member of RAU staff who will be present both during the procession and throughout the ceremony.
Will there be toilets at the venue?
Yes, toilets are available in Cirencester Abbey Park, next to the Parish Church.
What happens if it is raining?
In the event that bad weather means it is impossible for the procession, from the RAU campus down to the town, to take place, you will be taken from the RAU campus to the church by bus.
The procession will go ahead if it is drizzling so we would suggest you dress appropriately for the weather and perhaps bring an umbrella.
Can I take pictures?
Yes, feel free to take photos and please share them on social media using hashtag #OurRAU.
Will you be taking pictures?
Yes.
We will be taking photographs and videos and we have also invited the local press to cover both the procession and the ceremony.
The photographs/film may be used in RAU/Students' Union marketing materials and communications, as well as on our website, press releases, social media channels, and use by the media.
If you have any questions about the Matriculation ceremony, please email marketing@rau.ac.uk and someone will get back to you as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/moving-into-accommodation:
If you’re moving into RAU accommodation, please check the Accommodation Portal and make sure you have paid the £300 deposit, read and signed the contract, and set up your payment plan.
Moving in will take place on Sunday 21 September from 10:00am - 5:00pm.
If you need to arrive outside of this window please contact Accommodation with your expected arrival time so we can make arrangements.
Upon arrival, please park in the car park relevant to your accommodation:
Car park barriers will be open and you will not require a permit for moving in day.
Click here for a map of our campus , including car park entrances.
Once parked, head to the Emrys Jones Block and Atrium café, and you will be greeted by our friendly team of staff.
If you completed all the registration and payment steps prior to arrival, you will receive your accommodation access and student card.
More information on accommodation
Bring things to make you feel at home – your own duvet, duvet cover, 2 pillow slips and a sheet (single bed), towels slippers and dressing gown (in case of fire drills!), snacks for your room, waterproofs, wellies (if needed), decorations and pictures.
Catered rooms - bring a mug for a cuppa and a plate and cutlery for snacking in your room if you want to.
Self-catered rooms - bring additional pots pans, crockery and cutlery for meal making and utensils for washing up – yes you have to do your own!
We ask that if you bring items to put on walls you must use fixings that can be removed without damage – i.e.
glue dots or white tack.
Do not use anything on the walls or furnishings that cannot be removed without leaving a mark.
We do not allow cooking appliances/pets/smoking/vaping in bedrooms.
Induction for all new students starts on Monday 22 September 2025 with a variety of sessions and activities taking place.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/welcome-to-your-RAUSU:
The RAU Students’ Union (RAUSU) is here to support and represent you throughout your studies here.
You will have the option to join the RAUSU, at no extra cost, when you self-register for your programme.
Come and find us in the SU building next to the Tithe Barn.
We are open Monday to Friday 10am to 3pm.
We have lots of clubs and societies and a varied events programme, so come along and get involved!
More information on the RAUSU .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/preparing-for-university:
All the high street banks have student bank accounts.
Make sure you find out which one offers the best rates and incentives for you and open your bank account before applying for your student loan.
You can find out everything you need to know about arranging your student loan and funding your time at university here.
There is also information about bursaries, scholarships and awards , as well as details for how to pay for your accommodation and tuition fees.
If you are living on campus and wondering what you need to bring with you, answers to this and many other questions can be found on the accommodation FAQ page .
For those who have chosen to live off-campus, here is a handy guide to working out what your living costs are likely to be .
Student support
All our students benefit from a well-established support network.
Our highly trained team can offer support and guidance on a wide range of subjects such as mental health and wellbeing, international support, disability, funding, and almost everything in between.
If you are worried about something ahead of your arrival, then the Student Services Team are usually the best people to have a chat with; nothing is too big or too small and they understand that starting university can sometimes cause some challenges.
The team are located at the heart of campus in the Student Hub and are friendly, approachable, and knowledgeable, and conversations will be confidential if you want them to be.
You can also read this guide called Know Before You Go which has been compiled by Student Mind, the UK’s student mental health charity, to help you navigate your way through all the changes you may encounter when starting university.
Dyslexia and disability support
Our goal is to explore and identify individual support needs and put in place support and adjustments to ensure all students can thrive.
We understand that a disability can be visible or hidden.
It may be physical, related to mental health, a long-term medical condition or a learning difference such as dyslexia.
If you think any of these could apply to you, you should contact the Student Services team via enable@rau.ac.uk who can talk to you about the support available which could include mentoring or one-to-one study skills, in addition to our regular Advisor-led drop-ins and appointments.
It’s really important to make time to apply for Disabled Students Allowance , as this vital Government scheme provides the backbone of the support we can offer.
Talk to the Student Services team who will be happy to assist you with an application.
Read more about the support we offer for dyslexia and other disabilities here.
It is likely you will have a range of vaccinations when you were younger.
If you haven't already had them we recommend that you are vaccinated against the following:
International students' vaccinations
You should be vaccinated for all of the above diseases plus those listed below:
Here at the RAU, we know IT is an integral part of our students’ lives, both for learning and research, and for relaxing and communicating with family and friends.
You can bring your own laptop, tablet and smartphone and use our network for academic purposes and for personal internet access.
Free copies of Microsoft Office 365 are available for downloading onto these devices.
Please click to read more about our IT services .
If you are a new student, you will collect your RAU Unicard at your Part 2 on-site registration session during Induction Week.
You will need to have completed your Part 1 online self-registration, uploaded your University photo and made arrangements to pay your tuition fees.
Your Unicard will last for the duration of your time at University.
The Unicard is a ‘contactless smart card’ and allows you to:
Student life isn't just about studying; the Students' Union (RAUSU) is dedicated to helping you make the most of your time at the RAU, from sports clubs and societies to social events and charity fundraising.
Find out about some of the activities the Students' Union organise .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/international-prearrival-guide:
Carry the below in your hand luggage in case hold luggage is late or lost:
Temperatures may go down as low as -3 degrees Celsius during the winter (Dec-March) and as high as 32 degrees during the summer (June-Aug).
If you arrive in September we suggest you bring a sweater and a light (waterproof) jacket or a small umbrella for the journey.
A pair of comfortable waterproof shoes is also recommended.
In general students tend to dress informally (jeans, T-shirt, trainers) whilst on campus.
Smart clothes are occasionally worn either for recruitment events such as Welcome week, the Christmas and Summer balls.
Electricity in the UK operates on 220-240 volts.
You will also require a three pin plug adaptor which is available in most shops.
Check with your home service provider before you travel to the UK.
It may be expensive to make calls in the UK and back home from your current phone.
Pay-as-you-go Sim cards can be bought for as little as £10 although individual call and text charges may be comparatively higher.
Do shop around to get the best deal before you decide!
Registration – Induction Week starts
Students should be vaccinated against certain diseases before they start their course at the University.
The UK Government's Department of Health recommends the following types of vaccination:
Please check with your doctor as the list may change.
The RAU strongly advises students being immunized before the start of their course.
COVID 19 – for up-to-date travel information to the UK please visit the Government website .
If you are not a UK national you should be vaccinated for all of the diseases listed above.
If you are applying for a Student visa, depending on your country of origin/residence, you may also need to be tested for tuberculosis.
The amount you need to pay for your tuition fees is stated in your offer letter.
The figure given to you is for your first year of your studies for undergraduate or Doctorate courses (FdSc, BSc, PhD) and the total fee if you are studying towards a taught or research masters course (MSc, MBA, MSc by Research).
The balance of your Year 1/course fees (if your course is one year long) is payable by Registration week.
Ideally, you can do this when you complete the online self-registration.
Login to myRAU .
The latest arrival and registration date is 13 October 2025 (for September starters).
To complete your formal enrolment at the RAU you must complete the online self-registration, upload a passport size photo and pay your fees.
Once you have completed these steps you will be registered by the central administration.
Registry will email you with information as to when the portal will be open for self-registration.
Registration is a straightforward process if you have completed your online self-registration and paid your fees and involves you providing proof of your identity and eligibility to study in the UK.
You will be issued with your RAU Student ID card, which will confirm your status as a registered RAU student and allow you to use restricted access buildings, such as the Library, mark your attendance to classes etc.
Induction and registration takes place during the Welcome week starting Monday 22 September 2025.
Late arrival for registration must be notified in writing to admissions@rau.ac.uk for new students and registry@rau.ac.uk for returning students as early as possible.
Please provide your Student ID, your full name and briefly state the reason you will be arriving late for your registration.
If your arrival is delayed and you are on a Student visa please ensure that you also email visas@rau.ac.uk .
Check to see if you need an ETA – Electronic Travel Authorisation before you travel to the UK.
Most visitors travelling to the UK need an ETA or a visa.
What you need depends on:
You usually need an ETA rather than a visa if you’re from Europe, the USA, Australia, Canada or certain other countries.
Check if you need an ETA or visa to come to the UK .
There are some people who do not need an ETA , for example if you have:
For UK nationals and EEA nationals with settled/pre-settled status
Photo identification that verifies your nationality, such as your passport or national identity card.
Please note that the University is required to take a copy of your documents at registration.
EEA Nationals will need to provide the share code that shows the pre-settled/settled status in the UK.
Your passport showing evidence of your right to study at the RAU and the period for which you have permission to remain in the UK.
Please note that the University is required to take a copy of your documents which will be carried out during the Right-to-Study check.
Please ensure you have sent us your share code to verify your visa status.
*N.B.
We will send you specific communications about the right-to-study checks.
Please remember when you travel to the UK to bring in your hand luggage all the important documents and information you need.
Porters Lodge +44 (0)1285 652531 (ext.
2200) or Security +44 (0)7960 031821
One for European Economic Area (EEA & Swiss) nationals and the other for non-EEA nationals.
You will first have to show your passport and entry clearance (visa), if you have one, to an Immigration Officer.
If you have a visa, then be prepared to answer a few questions about yourself and your plans/intentions after completing your course.
This won’t be required if you have an e-Visa.
If you have nothing to declare it will be a green channel, if you have goods to declare the red.
The blue channel (previously used for arrivals from EEA countries) has closed.
All passengers arriving from the EU are required to make a customs declaration by selecting the green channel (nothing to declare) or the red channel (goods to declare).
Please note if you are travelling to the UK and you are carrying 10,000 Euros or more in cash, bankers draft or cheque of any kind (about £9,000 in pounds sterling or the equivalent in other currencies) you will be required to declare this at customs.
Please go to the Government website to complete the required form:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/import-and-export-cash-declaration-c9011
You can make a cash declaration online up to 72 hours before you travel.
Please visit the Government website https://www.gov.uk/duty-free-goods or contact the British Embassy or High Commission in your country to find out what you are allowed to bring in the UK before travelling.
Heathrow Express and Train
Follow signs for the Heathrow Express.
Underground and train
Alternatively, you may choose to take the Underground (Piccadilly Line – Eastbound and then Bakerloo Line -Northbound) from Heathrow Airport to Piccadilly Circus station and then change to Bakerloo line from Piccadilly Circus to Paddington.
Coach
Follow the signs to the coach station.
Train
Follow the signs for the main line station and buy a single ticket to Kemble.
The journey may take between 2.30 - 3.00 hours.
Kemble Train Station Taxi Service: 0333 8000750 from approximately £14.
If you arrive during working hours make your way to the Porter's Lodge and ask for someone at the Registry Office.
If you arrive after hours and you have booked accommodation on campus please make your way to the Porter’s lodge (see campus map )
Our Student Services and Accommodation teams are here to provide advice and help when you are living off campus and renting accommodation.
Also, talk to current students to find out where they are living and what are the best areas and most accessible to the University and town centre.
Opening a UK bank account is by far the safest and most effective way of managing your money as an international student.
Keep the following points in mind:
With this in mind, it is important that you bring sufficient funds to cover initial expenses for your first month in the UK.
For safety reasons, it is not a good idea to bring large sums of cash; look for alternative options such as using Travellers Cheques or pre-paid cash cards and paying tuition fees online.
From January 2025 all student visas are electronic (evisas).
When your visa is issued you will receive a letter of the decision via UKVI.
Please send a copy of the letter to visas@rau.ac.uk so that we can update your student record with this information.
You will also need to obtain a share code to prove your immigration status in the UK as your visa will be an electronic one.
https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status You will need to send us the share code so we can download a copy of your visa details on to your student record.
More information about the health centre can be found here.
Students on a Student Visa coming to the UK for more than six months would have paid the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) as part of their visa application fee.
Pharmacy prescriptions carry a standard charge .
EEA Nationals should read the advice on the UKCISA website: https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/EU-EEA--Swiss-Students/Healthcare-in-the-UK-for-EU-EEA-and-Swiss-students
If your course is for less than six months you are advised to take out medical insurance as you will be liable for healthcare charges you receive in the UK except in a medical emergency and this is limited.
Some countries may have reciprocal agreements with the UK but you should obtain information from the health authorities in your country before you travel.
A full list of the UK’s national holidays can be found here: www.gov.uk/bank-holidays
http://www.rau.ac.uk/the-rau/film-gallery
☐ Check baggage restrictions on your flight
☐ Check on any restrictions on goods that can be brought into the UK
www.gov.uk/duty-free-goods/banned-and-restricted-goods
☐ Consider Travel Insurance
☐ Make sure you have enough money in cash/credit card to cover your expenses until you open a UK bank account
☐ Check to see if your bankcard(if applicable) can be used in the UK and whether your bank can advise how to transfer money to the UK
☐ Look at the induction information available on the student portal from early September
☐ Consider the UK weather and plan what you need to pack
☐ Bring passport photos as you will need them for various things
☐ Check the details of your new student visa
☐ Make sure your passport is linked to your evisa and your UKVI account
☐ Make sure you travel to the UK within the dates stated in your visa and by the latest arrival date stated in your CAS
☐ Make copies of your passport and visa and keep them somewhere safe
☐ Carry a copy of your offer letter, the bank statement/financial sponsor letter you used to apply for your visa
☐ Provide your share code for your student visa along with a copy of your visa decision letter to visas@rau.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/undergraduate-offer-information/important-information-about-your-offer:
The Registration documents are: Induction week timetable, Student Handbook and programme timetable.
These documents are made available as part of the registration process.
Timetabling information in general is made available closer to registration.
The Student Handbook is released in late August for the new academic year (click here to view the current Student Handbook ).
UCAS applicants should now be able to see their offer via the UCAS Track facility.
Direct entry applicants e.g.
for undergraduate part-time on degree programmes can see progress of their application on myRAU .
Once you receive an offer from the RAU you'll be able to log into myRAU .
Your username will be your eight-digit student number printed at the top of your offer letter and your password will be your date of birth in the formal ddmmyyyy .
You'll be invited to change your password on your first visit.
Your offer is based on the information you provided on your UCAS/Direct entry application form.
It is your responsibility to provide official evidence of your qualifications.
All applicants must be competent in the English language and all courses require at least GCSE English at grade 4 (or C) or an equivalent qualification.
International undergraduate students for whom English is not their first language must provide evidence of English language competence equivalent to IELTS Academic 6.0 overall with no less than 5.5 in any band.
If there is an English proficiency condition in your offer, it will be stated in your offer conditions as shown on UCAS Track and on the offer letter you have received from RAU.
If you are planning to take an IELTS Academic test we recommend you arrange to take it early - test dates in the summer are often full so, plan and book your test early.
My offer asks me to achieve a minimum of 104 UCAS tariff points to include A Level grades BCC .
You're expected to achieve a minimum of 104 UCAS tariff points from three A Levels.
The grades of BCC are indicative of what you need to achieve in each A Level subject to obtain the 104 UCAS tariff points you need for entry to the programme you have applied for.
My offer asks me to achieve IB Diploma to include three HL subjects at grades 655 .
You're expected to obtain the International Baccalaureate Diploma and have three Higher Level subjects at the grades showing in your offer, e.g.
in this case 655.
My offer asks me to obtain 96 UCAS tariff points from at least two A Level passes, plus GCSE English and/or Maths at grade C or 4 and above.
You're expected to achieve a minimum of 96 UCAS tariff points.
At least two of the subjects you study and gain UCAS tariff points for entry must be studied at A Level.
You're also asked to achieve GCSE English and/or Maths at grade 4 (or C) and above.
This may be because you previously have not achieved the minimum required grade for these two GCSE subjects which are required for entry to all of our undergraduate programmes.
If you do not show in your UCAS application that you're retaking these GCSE subjects that means that the University is asking you to retake them.
If you are taking Functional skills or Key skills in Application of Number and/or Language at level 2, please contact the Admissions Office to discuss further.
If you are taking overseas qualifications such as SATs, Hong Kong H2, French Baccalaureate etc.
You'll need to send us certified copies of your results as soon as possible and no later than 1 August.
This is because it is likely that you'll need to get a Student Visa to study in the UK.
Please ensure that documents not written in English are accompanied by official (notarised) translations in English.
You will need to present the originals during your registration.
If you're taking A Levels, Cambridge pre-U, Scottish Advanced Highers, Irish Leaving Certificate, Welsh Baccalaureate etc.
The University will be able to confirm your results via UCAS if you receive your results in the summer.
If you've taken them in a previous year then we'll ask for copies of your certificates to be submitted to the Admissions Office.
To see a list of results that are confirmed through UCAS please visit the website: www.ucas.com/undergraduate/results-confirmation-and-clearing/sending-exam-results
The RAU provides a range of support for its students and can provide support if non-academic matters are affecting your academic progress as set out in our Assessment Regulations and Fitness to Study Policy.
If you have a disability the University will seek to support you whenever possible and reasonable to do so.
If you have not yet disclosed that disability, we encourage you to do so at the earliest opportunity.
As individual students’ needs (even those with the same condition) can vary, it is important that you contact Disability Support before you accept any offer of a place to find out what type of support is likely to be available to you and what information we need to arrange it.
If you choose not to tell us about your disability, provide this information with short notice before your course or examination/assessment start dates or do not provide full information about it before or during your course, we will do our best to help you, but we may not be able to provide the full range of support which might otherwise be available to you, or there may be a delay in providing that support.
Your offer of a place to study at the University is based on the latest key information which can be found on relevant page of the course pages of our website.
This includes the core modules for the course and may include an indication of likely optional modules.
Information set out in the Prospectus and on the University website is accurate at the date of publication.
However, changes to courses, modules, University services and the content of the prospectus may be necessary, for example, to meet the requirements of an accrediting body or to keep courses contemporary by updating practices or areas of study.
Changes to courses or modules may also be needed because of circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University, such as a key member of staff leaving the University or being unable to teach (where the course or module is reliant on that person’s expertise) or where the minimum or maximum number of students needed to ensure a good educational or student experience has not been met or has been exceeded.
Other circumstances outside the reasonable control of the University include unexpected lack of funding, industrial action, severe weather, fire, civil disorder, political unrest, government restrictions or serious concern about the transmission of serious illness making a course unsafe to deliver.
The University's Student Protection Plan outlines the steps the University will take in these situations.
If changes to your course are made after you have accepted your offer, the University will try to give you early notification of those changes and minimise their impact by offering suitable alternative arrangements, helping you find an alternative course or University or providing compensation where it believes there is a fair case to do so.
Please click here for the undergraduate fees and fee payment details .
The tuition fees stated on your offer letter are based on the start date shown in the offer letter.
However, if you defer your entry, your tuition fees may be more than is stated in your offer letter and you should contact Admissions for more information.
If your entry is deferred, please note that the course and/or its modules, course requirements and University services and facilities as currently described in the prospectus or on our website may change for your chosen year of entry.
Please keep referring to the course pages and Applicant Information sections of the University’s website where up to date information will be published as soon as it is available.
After you have accepted your offer of a place, you can cancel your acceptance within the cancellation period without giving us any reason.
The cancellation period runs for 14 days from the date we receive your acceptance.
Further information on cancelling your acceptance, and the 'right to cancel' form can be found here as well as the Terms & Conditions document.
You can cancel your acceptance by informing the University’s Admissions Office by emailing admissions@rau.ac.uk .
The University will collect a range of information about you as part of the application and registration procedures and in relation to your academic progress.
The University and organisations we work with to deliver our courses will use this to support you on your course and for the administration and management of the University.
For more information, please read our Privacy Notice .
Students from outside the UK (Overseas and EU/EEA/Swiss) who require a visa to study in the UK, will have to attend a Right to Study check when you first arrive at the University.
If you fail to attend the Right to Study check, or cannot provide conclusive evidence that you have the correct visa or immigration permission, you will not be allowed to begin your course and you may be asked to withdraw from your course in accordance with the University's policy.
Students from the EU, non-EU EEA Nationals and Swiss citizens (who do not have settled or pre-settled status and do not reside the UK) who arrive in the UK to start their course will need to apply for a Student visa under the Immigration system that is now in place.
It is essential that you regularly read our emails and that you follow the instructions for arrival, proving your immigration status by sending your share code to visas@rau.ac.uk and complying with the University Right to Study checks.
You are required to meet the attendance and attendance monitoring requirements; if you do not, the University may withdraw its sponsorship of your visa and withdraw you from your course.
Any invention, device, discovery, material, product, process, computer software or any other potentially valuable results or innovation with material input by the University’s staff or as part of a collective project will be subject to the University’s Intellectual Property Policy.
You must be aware of the University’s Regulations relating to conduct, plagiarism, academic integrity, attendance and reasonable diligence.
The University can impose penalties if you do not follow these requirements, and in serious cases the University can suspend or expel you from the University.
The University is committed to providing a high quality educational experience, supported by a range of academic and administrative services and facilities.
From time to time, however, things do go wrong, and if the matter cannot be resolved informally, the University provides students with a system for raising concerns and complaints about both academic and non-academic matters.
The Complaints Procedure sets out a procedure for dealing with students’ complaints fairly, consistently and as quickly as possible.
Students who are dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) an independent body which reviews student complaints.
The Admissions Policy sets out the procedure for asking for a review of decisions made in the application and admissions process.
The University will not be liable to you and you will not be liable to the University for any failure or delay when the failure is caused by a significant event beyond the University’s or your reasonable control, for example pandemic, fire, flood or industrial dispute.
The contract between you and the University is only enforceable by these two parties, the Contracts (Right of Third Parties Act (1999)) does not apply.
The Contract between you and the University is governed by English Law and is subject to any changes in law which affect this contract.
You can find the Student Offer Guide Archive here.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/your-offer/key-dates-and-undergraduate-offer-holder-days:
By now you'll already be thinking about what lies ahead and what you should do to prepare for your course and all that follows.
We're here to guide you along the way.
We would love to invite you to an offer holder day to spend some time with us and get a further taste of life at the RAU.
These on campus events will give you the opportunity to find out more about your chosen course and experience what it’s like to study here.
There will be relevant activities such as sample lectures, practical activities, visiting our farms or going on a field trip.
Plus you'll get to meet your fellow offer holders before you start at the RAU, as well as the staff and students already here.
You can also find out about student finance, support, careers, work experience opportunities, accommodation and all the clubs and societies run by our Students' Union.
This is a fantastic chance to meet the people that make the RAU, and discover why around 1,100 students choose to live and study with us.
With a thriving social scene and plenty of opportunities to further your knowledge and entrepreneurial expertise, your future starts with a degree at the RAU.
The offer holder days are taking place on the following dates:
As an offer holder, you will shortly receive a personal email invitation containing information and a direct link to book your place at one of our offer holder days.
If you have any questions, please email the open days team .
This handy timeline breaks down all the important phases between now and when you start your course, and shows you the things to do next.
Offer holder days.
You are invited to join us at one of our offer holder days to discover more about the University, your chosen subject area and to hear from academic staff and students.
You’ll also be invited to explore our offer holder hub which contains lots of useful information relating to your offer, chosen course and starting University.
You’ll be sent an email with more details about these events.
UK applicants: Arrange student finance loans and check for any other additional support, scholarships, awards and bursaries you might want to apply for.
Try to apply for your student loans as soon as possible to make sure they are in place in time for the start of your studies.
International applicants : Check for any additional support, scholarships, awards and bursaries you might want to apply for.
Get your money organised.
Make sure your tuition fee loan and maintenance loan is approved and/or set up an online payment for your tuition and/or accommodation fees.
International students : Make sure all the money you need is available and payment arranged for your tuition and accommodation fees before you arrive, or have provided details of any sponsors.
Please email studentfees@rau.ac.uk with any questions you have.
For information about our semester dates, please visit: https://www.rau.ac.uk/courses/semester-dates

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/received-offer/faqs:
You need to login to UCAS Hub, with your UCAS Personal ID number and password.
The offer is displayed in the "Your Choices" section of The Hub.
Once you have received your offer, the "reply to your offers" link will be visible on this page.
A conditional offer means you have an offer of a place on the course, but you first need to meet the outstanding requirements of that offer.
For example, this might be outstanding exam results, or proof of English Language ability for international students.
You can check your outstanding requirements on your offer letter.
An unconditional offer means you have met the requirements and have a place on the course - so it's yours if you want it!
If you accept an unconditional offer, you are committing to this university and course and can't make an insurance choice as well.
Even if you still need to meet outstanding requirements, you are required to respond to your offer by making a 'firm' and 'insurance' choice.
Firm: this is your first choice and the place you most want to go to.
If you accept a conditional offer and meet the conditions, you'll have a confirmed place.
Insurance: this is the choice you'd want if you didn't meet the conditions of your firm choice.
If this is a conditional offer, you still need to meet the conditions for your place to be confirmed.
No.
You can accept a maximum of two choices - one firm and one insurance.
You can only have an insurance choice if your firm choice is a conditional offer.
If you accept an unconditional offer as your firm choice then the place is guaranteed, so you cannot have an insurance choice.
You will need to decline your other offers, if you have more than two.
Your offers will automatically be declined.
You may change your replies once within 14 days of initially making them.
To do this, you will need to contact UCAS with your Personal ID.
This is usually because you haven't had a decision from all of your choices yet.
However, if you're ready to reply and don't want to wait for the other choices to make a decision, you can choose to cancel them.
To do this, click on 'view' for each outstanding choice and you'll have the 'permanently withdraw from this choice'.
Once you've done this, the 'reply to offers' button will be available.
Remember, if you receive your last decision on or before 17 July 2025, your reply deadline will 23 July 2025.
RAU Admissions have based your offer on the range of subjects which are relevant to your programme of study.
Some programmes exclude subjects such as General Studies and Critical Thinking studied at A Level, whilst other programmes consider them.
This will be clear in the wording of your offer.
Your offer is based on your UCAS application form.
If you drop one or more of your subjects you'll need to inform Admissions even if the subject does not form part of your offer - you'll then receive a reply within two weeks of us receiving the information.
This may be possible depending on your application, the subjects you're currently studying, your personal statement and the relevance of the programme of study you propose to change to.
If you're thinking of changing the programme of study you've applied for, please contact the Admissions Office before you proceed, so we can advise and assist you.
If your offer was conditional and you met the conditions of your offer but you cannot take up your place and you need to defer for one year then please contact us.
Please send an email to Admissions stating the reasons for your deferral request.
The University will consider your request and, if agreed, your UCAS record will be updated accordingly.
Sometimes, circumstances may arise that have a serious impact on how you perform during your exams.
If you have serious extenuating circumstances which have had an impact on your performance, please let us know so we can advise you further.
In such cases you must also inform your school, as they should be able to contact the examination boards and make them aware of any extenuating circumstances relevant in your case and examiners may take these into consideration.
Yes, please contact Admissions as soon as possible and also change your contact details accordingly on your UCAS track account.
The University sends all communications via email and it is extremely important we hold the correct email address for you.
A number of applicants may use a school email address.
However, this may not be suitable when you no longer have access to your school's email, so a personal email address is always advised.
If you're not going to be available for some time, or you're taking a gap year, you need to make sure that you've nominated a third party in your UCAS application to act on your behalf.
Data Protection legislation does not allow the University to speak/disclose information to any third party about you, unless they're your UCAS application nominated contact.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/postgrad-offer-info:
​ These documents namely are: Induction week timetable, Student Handbook, RAUSU Guide and programme timetable.
Timetabling information in general is made available closer to registration and once you have chosen your modules as part of the registration process.
The Student Handbook is released in late August for the new academic year (you can view the current version of the Student handbook here).
You will have received an offer letter outlining the conditions of your offer.
Please note that deferral requests must be submitted in writing to Admissions and they will be considered on merit.
Your username will be your eight digit student number which is printed at the top of your offer letter and your password will be your date of birth in the formal ddmmyyyy .
If your Bachelor's degree is not from a UK HEI or a majority English speaking country.
HEI (excluding Canada) and you are not a national of a majority English speaking country then you'll need to provide evidence of your English proficiency.
International postgraduate taught students must provide evidence of English language competence as follows:
If there is an English proficiency condition in your offer, it will be stated in your offer conditions on the offer letter you have received from RAU.
If you are planning to take an IELTS Academic test we recommend you arrange to take it early - test dates in the summer are often full so plan and book your test early.
Photocopies will need to be verified by your University.
Photocopies of your certificates and transcripts must meet the following conditions:
You should submit any certified official documents as soon as they become available.
For applicants requiring a study visa these should not be received later than 15 December (January entry)/1 August (September entry).
Documents can be emailed to admissions@rau.ac.uk or uploaded on the myRAU portal (only pdf files in colour and good definition will be accepted).
The originals must be submitted on the day on your registration.
If the University finds that the examinations/qualifications/results you have declared on your application are inaccurate or you are unable to verify them, the University reserves the right to withdraw the offer or cancel your application.
As individual students’ needs (even those with the same condition) can vary, it is important that you contact the Disability Support before you accept any offer of a place to find out what type of support is likely to be available to you and what information we need to arrange it.
Please click here for the postgraduate fees and fee payment details .
However, if you defer your entry, your tuition fees may be more than is stated in your offer letter, and you should contact  Admissions for more information.
Further information on cancelling your acceptance, and the 'right to cancel' form can be found here and in the Terms & Conditions document.
Students from outside the UK (Overseas and EU/EEA/Swiss) who require a visa to study in the UK, will have to attend a Right to Study check when you first arrive at the University.
If you fail to attend the Right to Study check or cannot provide conclusive evidence that you have the correct visa or immigration permission, you will not be allowed to begin your course and you may be asked to withdraw from your course in accordance with the University's policy.
Students from the EU, non-EU EEA Nationals and Swiss citizens (who do not have settled or pre-settled status and do not reside the UK) that arrive in the UK to start their course will need to apply for a Student visa under the Immigration system that is now in place.
It is essential that you regularly read our emails and that you follow the instructions for arrival, proving your immigration status by sending your share code to visas@rau.ac.uk and complying with the University Right to Study checks.
You must be aware of the University’s regulations relating to conduct, plagiarism, academic integrity, attendance and reasonable diligence.
Students who are dissatisfied with a decision relating to a complaint they have raised may be able to complain to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) an independent body which reviews student complaints.
The University will not be liable to you and you will not be liable to the University for any failure or delay when the failure is caused by a significant event beyond the University’s or your reasonable control, for example fire, flood or industrial dispute.
You can find the Postgraduate Offer Guide Archive here.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/received-offer/key-dates-postgraduates:
For January starters: You'll be emailed separately with dates and more information about Registration.
International students : Collect your Biometric Residence Permit (i.e.
Student Visa) from the appointed collection point, either the RAU Admissions and Visa Compliance Office or Swindon Post Office.
Ask Registry for a student status letter (state the bank you'll use) to allow you to open a UK bank account.
For information about our semester dates, please visit www.rau.ac.uk/courses/semester-dates .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/faqs-for-postgraduates:
This may be possible depending on whether places are still available, how competitive the new course is and whether your subjects and grade are suitable.
If the course you wish to study is in the same area or department as your original one, there is a good chance you will be able to change.
Please contact the Admissions office so we can advise and assist you.
If your offer is for deferred entry you must still satisfy all the conditions of your offer by 31 August (September entry)/mid-December (January entry).
If you are successful in meeting those conditions or if your offer is already unconditional, a place will then be reserved for you to start the following academic year.
It's important to contact the Admissions team as soon as possible if you intend to withdraw your application.
Sometimes there may be circumstances that arise which may have a serious impact on how you perform during your exams.
If you have serious extenuating circumstances which had an impact on your performance please let us know so we can advise you further.
If you're taking qualifications that are required for you to complete your conditions, it is your responsibility to ensure that your results reach us.
You should send them to admissions@rau.ac.uk as soon as you receive them.
Yes, please contact Admissions as soon as possible.
It is extremely important we hold the correct contact details for you.
The University Disability Officer provides a range of services for students who have disabilities or medical conditions.
If you could like to discuss anything, please email enable@rau.ac.uk or call 01285 652531.
You can contact our Admissions team on 01285 889912 or email the Scholarships Administrator.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/student-handbook-and-policies/transfer-course-or-uni:
As you start your studies, we understand that some of you may be unsure if you have made the right choice of what to study here at the RAU.
Sometimes you may consider another course better fits your career goals.
For a few, this is because you are finding your course more demanding than expected.
The University will support a course change where you meet the requirements for the new course.
Normally, any change will be at the start of an academic year.
In some cases, you may change at the start of Semester 2.
The RAU publishes information about its programmes and entry requirements to help you make the right choice.
If you wish to transfer to a different course you will need to complete a Transfer Form.
On some occasions, a change in course may mean you have to restart your studies from the first year or to repeat a year.
You should check out what this may mean for your fees and any loans.
Sometimes you may not pass all the modules you need to be able progress to the next year.
If this happens, and it is not feasible for you to repeat a module, you may be able to transfer to another programme.
In this situation, the University has people who can help to guide you.
If you want to change course then the first step is to discuss the options with your personal tutor.
If you want to go ahead with a change they can help you present the argument for the change and to the complete the forms.
In addition to the above, paragraph 200 of the Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes details the Internal Transfer regulations.
If you decide that the RAU is not for you and that the course you want to study is at another University then you need to follow a two-step process.
You need to apply to your new University – normally through UCAS – and you need to withdraw from the RAU.
If you want to stop your University studies, you need to withdraw formally from the University.
You need to consider carefully the financial issues that stopping your course may involve, including the timing of any loans, rental agreements or council tax.
You are strongly advised to seek specialist advice on these matters.
You will need to complete the Withdrawal from or Suspending Academic Studies Form.
The Policy and Procedures for Withdrawing from or Suspending Academic Studies document is published on the website.
If you would like to discuss transferring to a different course, withdrawing or moving to another university you can seek advice from the Student Hub

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about/organisation/public-information/academic-quality:
We are committed to ensuring that academic quality and standards are governed by our Academic Regulations and quality assured by policies overseen by our Academic Quality and Standards Committee and Academic Board.
Please contact quality@rau.ac.uk if you require advice and guidance, or need Word versions of specific documents.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/campus-facilities/it-services/it-acceptable-use-policy:
Accordingly, for clarity we use the following definitions in this policy:
• by ‘ personal ’ we mean any activities that relate to your role as a student, staff member or authorised third party • by ‘ private ’ we mean any activities that do not relate to your role as a student, staff member or authorised third party
If you have any questions about anything in this policy, please don’t hesitate to contact our IT Service Desk, by email , by phone (extn: 2400, or 01285 889 841) or in person (08.30 – 17:30 Monday – Friday in the Library Foyer).
This policy applies to all our students and staff and to any authorised third party who makes use of our IT facilities, or accesses our information.
It also applies to you if you are using your RAU network credentials to access IT facilities located elsewhere.
It is your personal responsibility to ensure that your behaviour and activities when using our IT facilities, or accessing our information, are in accordance with the requirements of this policy.
If you are a student or member of staff, then failure to comply with this policy may lead to the instigation of disciplinary procedures and, in certain circumstances, legal action may be taken.
This could also have a bearing on your studies or employment with us and with other organisations in the future.
If you are a contractor, then failure to comply may lead to the immediate cancellation of a contract.
Where appropriate, breaches of the law will be reported to the relevant authorities.
As a student, staff member or third party who is authorised to use our IT facilities and access our information, you are assigned a RAU network account for your individual use under the following conditions:
You are provided with an individual email address for your sole use, but please be aware your email address remains the property of the RAU and your use of it is subject to your conformance with our Information Security policies.
Whether you are a student or a staff member, you must use only your RAU-provided email account when conducting university business.
You should not use your RAU-provided email account for private correspondence.
We provide all our students and staff with an individual storage area on our servers for your personal use, known as your ‘Z’ Drive, and which is regularly backed up as part of our overall backup procedures.
You also have access to your personal OneDrive.
You must be aware of the restrictions governing the use of your Z Drive or OneDrive for the storage of ‘Restricted’ or ‘Confidential’ information, as defined in our Information Handling Policy .
You must not use your Z Drive or OneDrive for storage or sharing of large quantities of private documents, photographs, media and emails that are not related to your work or study.
Although no-one else usually has access to your Z Drive or OneDrive and we do not routinely monitor your emails, there are certain circumstances when appropriately authorised staff may be given access to your email account and / or Z Drive or OneDrive.
These include, but are not limited to, prolonged absence from your studies or place of work, or when you have left the RAU, or when an Information Security breach has occurred or is suspected to have occurred, or when concerns arise about the level or nature of personal or private use of, and access to, our IT facilities and information.
Further information on our use of monitoring processes can be found in our Information Security Policy .
Our IT facilities are provided for your use in support of your course of study, research, employment or other approved activities that are associated with the aims and objectives of the RAU.
Accordingly, you must not do anything to jeopardise the integrity of our IT facilities by, for example:
If you are connecting a personal device to our networks, you must only do so in an approved manner, and you must also ensure that:
If you are a staff member, you can find further guidance on the use of personal devices in our Remote Working and Mobile Device Policy .
We permit you to use our IT facilities for a limited amount of private activity, provided that you do not:
Any such misuse of our IT facilities may result in this permission being withdrawn.
When using our IT facilities for private activity, you must also be aware that information stored on RAU-supplied equipment may under certain circumstances be accessed by suitably authorised individuals.
For further information, please see our Information Security Policy .
The following activities are examples of the unacceptable use of our IT facilities, and are consistent with the JANET Acceptable Use Policy (by which everyone who uses our IT facilities is also bound) and the laws of the UK:
In addition to the above requirements, we have a statutory duty, under the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015, termed “PREVENT”.
The purpose of this duty is to aid the process of preventing people being drawn into terrorism.
You must also be aware of your responsibilities under the laws of England and Wales listed below, and of any other jurisdiction applying to your location or the location of the services you are using:
You must understand that any infringement may result in action being taken against you in accordance with University procedures.
This policy is one of a number that relate to the confidentiality, security and availability of our IT facilities and information assets.
You can find them on the ITS pages on Gateway and the staff intranet.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/new-students-guide/student-handbook-and-policies/harassment-sexual-misconduct:
We are committed to providing an environment in which all members of our community feel safe and we are working to protect all students.
We are dedicated to promoting a culture in which sexual misconduct is not tolerated.
Incidents will be thoroughly addressed and we support everyone in our community to challenge inappropriate behaviour where it is safe to do so.
This webpage is the University's Single Comprehensive Source of Information (SCSI), as required by the Office for Students (Condition E6).
It summarises our approach to student harassment and sexual misconduct and brings together all relevant policies, procedures, support services, reporting mechanisms, and preventative initiatives in one accessible location.
Its purpose is to ensure transparency, clarity, and ease of access for all students, staff, and visitors.
Sexual misconduct means any unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and can occur through any medium, including online.
For full definitions and the legal framework, please refer to the University’s Sexual Misconduct Policy .
Harassment and sexual misconduct include a wide range of unacceptable behaviours of a sexual nature.
These may involve:
Unlawful harassment involves any unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and can take two forms:
The effect of the conduct is key—regardless of the perpetrator’s intentions.
A single incident or a series of actions may constitute harassment.
The RAU promotes an inclusive and respectful environment and has a range of policy documents in place to support this approach:
Instances of harassment or sexual misconduct can be reported via the RAU Report4Support system.
Anyone can make a report about something that they have experienced, witnessed or been made aware of and reports can be made anonymously or by third parties.
Anonymous and third-party reports will be considered and acted upon where possible, though the University's ability to investigate will be limited in these cases.
The University procedures should not stop or delay any report to the police.
To report a crime in an emergency dial 999.
To report an incident which isn’t an emergency please dial 101, or report anonymously via Crime Stoppers on 0800 555 111.
If current students have experienced an act of harassment or sexual misconduct they can use the RAU online reporting tool RAU Report4Support to report an incident.
If they choose to report with contact details, a member of the Student Services team will get in touch to offer advice and support, and help explore options.
Allegations will be taken seriously, considered carefully and acted upon appropriately.
Students may also choose to report directly to Student Services in person, by email ( StudentServices@rau.ac.uk )  or send a letter.
However students choose to make a report, the information is collected sensitively and treated with appropriate confidentiality.
Where a student does not wish to seek support from the University but does wish to pursue a complaint they can contact the Student Conduct Team directly: conduct@rau.ac.uk .
Please be aware that if an anonymous report is made, the University will be unable to take any action, or provide any advice.
However, the information will still be used to monitor issues across the RAU so that actions can be taken to address identified trends.
Staff can report instances of harassment or sexual misconduct  using the RAU online reporting tool RAU Report4Support or in person to Human Resources or via email ( human.resources@rau.ac.uk ); they can also phone (01285 889836), use MS Teams or send a letter.
If the staff member provides their contact details, they will be contacted by a member of the Human Resources team to discuss the incident and they will be encouraged to access appropriate support.
Staff can also choose to report anonymously.
Members of the public can report instances of harassment and sexual misconduct experienced or witnessed using the RAU online reporting tool RAU Report4Support .
They can also report in person by telephone (01285 889836) to Human Resources, via email ( human.resources@rau.ac.uk ) or send a letter to Human Resources, Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, GL7 6JS.
If contact details are provided, Human Resources staff will respond to discuss the incident and support, and where appropriate the University’s investigation procedures will be followed.
Support is available to students via the Student Services team and staff are encouraged to seek support from the Human Resources team.
Support will be provided regardless of where the incident occurred - whether on University premises or elsewhere.
Students may also seek confidential support 24-hours a day from the University funded Student Assistance Programme provided by Health Assured on 0800 028 3766.
Students can  download the Wisdom app , which is part of this service, using the RAU code: MHA292867.
It can be accessed by phone, or live chat and is staffed by professional and qualified advisors.
The service provides immediate support and guidance to students 365 days a year and includes a confidential, high-quality interpreter and translation service available in over 250 languages to ensure students are supported in the most appropriate language.
Staff may also seek confidential support 24-hours a day from the University funded Employee Assistance Helpline provided by Health Hero on 0800 358 4858.
In addition, support is available from key external agencies including:
If a student does not wish to pursue a complaint, Student Services will:
The Student Services team also provide support for students who are accused of harassment and sexual misconduct.
The role of Student Services includes:
Liaising on behalf of the Student
With the individual’s consent, Student Services can communicate with other University departments to help address their needs.
For example:
Exploring Next Steps
Student Services will talk with the individual about their options, including:
Academic Support following Harassment or Sexual Misconduct
The University recognises that experiences of harassment or sexual misconduct can significantly impact a student’s academic progress.
These experiences are treated as exceptional circumstances, and a wide range of academic adjustments are available to support affected students:
Students may request adjustments such as:
If a student’s studies are affected over a longer period, additional options include:
These measures are designed to give students the time and space they need to recover, without jeopardising their academic progress.
Many of these adjustments can be requested without the need to provide detailed personal statements or evidence about the incident.
Students are treated as independent adults, but the University recognises that anyone under 18 years old is legally a child in the UK.
The RAU has additional safeguarding measures in place to protect younger students.
When a case is referred for investigation, a trained investigator will be appointed by a senior member of Student Services or Human Resources to establish the facts about what happened.
The investigation will be conducted fairly and objectively in accordance with the principles of natural justice.
The investigator will seek to meet separately with both parties and may also meet any witnesses or potential witnesses.
Both the reporting party and the responding party may be accompanied during the investigation by a supporter; they will be advised who they can bring, e.g.
a member of the RAU Students' Union or a colleague or trade union representative.
Meetings can be arranged in-person or online to suit the situation and the needs of those involved.
The investigator will then write a report and recommend a course of action.
They may decide that:
Acceptance of an informal resolution may not require the responding party to admit liability, and it may not imply a finding of wrong-doing.
If the police are carrying out a criminal investigation into a matter that is also the subject of an internal  investigation, the University will take care that its own investigation does not prejudice or disrupt the police proceedings.
In this situation, the RAU will carry out its own reasonable investigation, as far as the circumstances allow and will not rely on the outcome of the police investigation.
When an incident is reported by a student and it is reasonable and practical to do so in accordance with data protection legislation and obligations, the University will:
This commitment also applies if the outcome changes for any reason, for example following an appeal process.
However, the information provided may be limited depending on the circumstances.
In cases where a student’s actions are investigated in accordance with the Student Discipline Policy and Procedure, the student (the responding party) will be informed of the arrangements for the investigation process, any hearing, and of the outcome.
They will also be advised of the arrangements for an appeal and the outcome of any appeal process.
In cases of student misconduct, the outcome - including, in some instances, the sanction applied - may be shared with the reporting party, the Student Services team, relevant internal and external support services and appropriate individuals within the student’s academic faculty.
This will be done only where appropriate and reasonable, and always with sensitivity to privacy and welfare considerations.
In rare cases, where it is considered necessary for welfare reasons, the detailed reasoning of the relevant disciplinary panel may also be shared with the reporting party.
In cases where an incident is reported against a member of staff by a student, the University will share as much information as possible about a formal process and outcome.
In all cases, where the University is not able to share specific information with the reporting party, an explanation will be given.
The University will carefully review the purpose of sharing (including the lawful basis), why it is necessary and on balance whether it is appropriate and proportionate.
All parties will be notified when key stages of a process are reached, including when an investigation is complete, when there is an outcome of a formal procedure or when an appeal is concluded.
Information received relating to instances of or concerns relating to harassment and sexual misconduct will be handled sensitively and held within secure data systems.
Further information about how the University processes information can be found in the Student Privacy Notice and Staff Privacy Notice .
Maintaining confidentiality is essential to ensure the integrity of the investigative process, protection of the privacy of the individuals concerned, and to encourage reporting of incidents without fear of retribution or exposure.
The treatment of all disclosures will align with the University’s Data Protection Policy and Safeguarding Policy and Procedure.
Information is typically shared only with individuals or organisations directly involved in the case management.
In exceptional circumstances, where there is concern for the safety of individuals or the broader community, the University may share information beyond the usual channels.
Such actions will be taken in accordance with legal and ethical standards to minimise risks and protect all parties.
Records of proceedings will be kept in accordance with the University’s data retention policies and relevant data protection legislation and the University will maintain anonymised data for monitoring and reporting purposes.
The University is committed to understanding the full scope of sexual misconduct affecting our community.
Findings will be reported annually and used to inform policy development and resource allocation.
The effectiveness of our data collection methods will be regularly reviewed to ensure they remain fit for purpose and responsive to emerging trends.
Through these measures, we aim to build a comprehensive understanding of sexual misconduct issues on campus, enabling us to tailor our prevention and response strategies effectives and to work to understand and minimise any barriers to reporting and disclosing incidents that may exist for particular groups.
The University is committed to providing a safe and inclusive environment and steps are taken to protect students.
Acts of harassment and sexual misconduct are unacceptable and this is reflected in RAU policies which have undergone an Equality Impact Assessment to consider the needs of different groups.
The University’s RAU Report4Support form will help to reveal broad patterns of behaviour that are addressed through proactively raising awareness and campaign work.
The University will collect and monitor anonymised data relating to harassment and sexual misconduct in order to focus resources where they are needed and tailor actions to support the needs of those affected by sexual misconduct.
The University will make evidence-based decisions to improve our actions, using any findings or themes to improve our processes.
The campus is staffed by a dedicated Security and Welfare team.
Students, staff and members of the University community are actively encouraged to call them if they feel unsafe or have a concern about the safety of another person.
The Security and Welfare team are trained to understand and recognise harassment and sexual misconduct and to respond appropriately to disclosures.
Students will receive:
The University requires all students to treat each other with dignity & respect in accordance with the RAU Student Code of Conduct .
Students will learn about RAU standards for respectful behaviour during admissions and induction, and mandatory training on harassment, sexual consent, and misconduct
The RAU will regularly share reminders and updates through emails, social media, blogs, and newsletters to keep respectful behaviour on the agenda
Campaigns that the RAU will run impactful initiatives like alongside our Students' Union and also support national efforts like the UK Government’s Enough Campaign.
All staff are required to undertake tailored training to help identify, address, remove and prevent harassment and sexual misconduct.
All staff receive information and regular updates on how to signpost students to sources of support and how to report incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct to the University (including guiding staff to this comprehensive source of information).
Staff supporting individuals who have disclosed incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct receive training from specialist external partners.
The University expects all students to undertake a tailored training module to ensure they understand what constitutes harassment and sexual misconduct, how they can report incidents to the University, what the University is doing to address such issues and what support is available for any student.
The training will explain what constitutes consent.
Students will learn how to safely intervene when an individual is faced with harassment, including sexual harassment, and it will illustrate the importance of our student community becoming active bystanders.
Students will also learn how to develop a skillset which will build confidence to intervene in a positive and safe way, should they find themselves acting as a bystander.
However, the subject matter can be challenging for some students due to their own lived experience.
Students can contact the University’s Student Services team: StudentServices@rau.ac.uk to talk about opting out and to familiarise themselves with the support available from the Student Services Team .
Intimate or close personal relationships between students and staff who have responsibility for students can cause significant problems because of conflicts of interest, imbalance of power and authority, perceived favouritism, and undermining of trust and confidence.
To protect the welfare of students, and in the best interests of staff, the RAU prohibits staff from entering into an intimate relationship with a student for whom they have any responsibility.
The University also strongly discourages any other close personal relationship between a staff member and student for whom they have any responsibility, and requires such relationships to be declared.
Any intimate relationship between a member of staff and a student for whom they have any responsibility may lead to disciplinary action.
Any close personal relationship between a member of staff and student must be declared by the staff member to their line manager and/or to Human Resources.
The line manager must notify Human Resources so that a record is made.
The University is committed to addressing harassment and sexual misconduct while simultaneously upholding the principles of freedom of speech and academic freedom.
It is recognised that in an educational context, students may encounter ideas, materials or discussions that they find challenging or uncomfortable but which do not constitute harassment of sexual misconduct.
The content of academic discourse, including lectures, seminars, debates and course materials is protected under principles of academic freedom and is unlikely to be considered harassment or sexual misconduct unless it is targeted at or delivered in a way that harasses a specific individual.
However, this protection does not extend to personal conduct or behaviour that crosses the line into harassment or sexual misconduct.
The University will carefully consider the context of any allegation, ensuring that legitimate academic discourse is protected while still taking appropriate action against genuine instances of harassment or sexual misconduct.
Training, policies or procedures related to sexual misconduct will be developed and implemented in a manner consistent with the University’s obligations to protect freedom on speech and academic freedom.
Since September 2024 the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct and the RAU will not use them.
The University recognises that NDAs can have a silencing effect on individuals who have experienced misconduct and may hinder the pursuit of justice.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/careers-service-video:
Here at the RAU we aim to support students throughout the time of their studies, from being a first year student looking for part-time  work perhaps, to then going on to looking for a placement in their second year and then on to looking for that graduate role when they finish their studies.
We have regular CV clinics when students can just drop in on an informal basis
if they just want a quick review of their CVs, then we also offer more in-depth guidance meetings when we can discuss with a student how they want to put themselves over to an employer, to make sure that they're highlighting their skills and experience in the best way.
We also offer the opportunity for students to come along and have a mock interview to help them prepare and hopefully calm their nerves before an interview situation.
We hold a number of career fairs in the autumn term and we also have an online job portal where all sorts of opportunities are posted that students can apply for.
I'm a graduate of the RAU.
They provided so many industry opportunities and I think the placement opportunity was key in the work that I did after.
I think coming along and talking to someone else about your plans or perhaps if you're unsure of your direction really helps and start developing your skills and your confidence crucially.
The career service of the RAU has been fantastic.
I first went to them when I was looking to apply for quite a competitive work experience programme.
I was able to secure that placement from that as well, I was able to actually build on that CV and secure a placement year at a national company in London at next year.
Without career support at the RAU I would not have got that original work experience and definitely would not have got this placement, so it's absolutely fantastic.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/jo-middleton-employer-case-study:
At Dalcour Maclaren, we're key players in the Utilities and Infrastructure industry, bringing the UK and Ireland closer to net zero every day.
Our land, environmental and geospatial experts work together to unlock the consents needed by our clients to deliver key projects.
Our services include land access and assembly, agricultural liaison, planning, environmental impact assessments and geospatial mapping.
Join us, and play your part in helping us to achieve our vision; to be the professional services team of choice, leading the Utilities and Infrastructure industry to a sustainable future.
We employ approximately 600 people based across the UK and Ireland.
We have Graduate Programmes for our Surveying, Planning and Geomatics teams.
We look for graduates who have a can-do attitude, are a strong team player, great communicator, have strong IT skills, are a keen problem solver with a genuine interest in the sector and an awareness of the challenges/opportunities in our industry.
We've had great success with RAU Graduates, some of whom have gone on to progress into more senior level positions across the business.
We particularly value the agricultural knowledge that these candidates bring to our business as this is extremely well received when those graduates are engaging with landowners on our schemes or handling client communications.
We're keen to continue to develop our partnership with RAU and look forward to working together more closely in the years to come!
Joanna Middleton, Head of Talent Acquisition
Dalcour Maclaren

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/Graduation-2024-interviews-video:
My name is Jasmine Gregory and I studied Rural Land Management.
I'm really grateful to be here.
I'm grateful to sort of have got this far and it's a really exciting day and I suppose a day as well of looking ahead to what's next.
So, I'm currently working as a Graduate Surveyor for Fisher German and the RAU has really helped my journey because I did a placement in my second year and during this placement I really got to know sort of what it was like working as a surveyor and actually this enabled me to um yeah secure a graduate role.
I would say that new students should just get involved in everything that they can get involved in societies, yeah just really go for it and have the best time and make sure you take every opportunity that comes your way.
Hi, I'm Priscilla Baker, I've just graduated finishing agriculture.
I think I loved the amount of time you got to go out on farm and go on lots of trips and everything and the lecturers were always like so supportive.
Some lectures I didn't fully understand and they were always like so welcoming, to go and just have a one to one with them or anything so I think that's what I liked most about agriculture, and yes I have got a job, I work at Madeleys Charted Surveyors in Much Wenlock, and both of my managing directors actually came to the RAU, so and they loved the RAU when they came here and I think it speaks so highly of the uni that they wanted to employ someone from here as well.
I think the RAU kind of gives you like a family feel and you kind of, it stays with you the rest of your life.
Oh my best memory probably was probably the first May Ball here, just because you got to see all of your friends make lots of new friends, pushed you kind of out of your comfort zone, you know it's a lot of people, big events but I think kind of makes you so confident.
The uni put on so many big events and I think that's what kind of makes the RAU.
Probably new students I would say just talk to everyone, everyone is friendly if you're struggling ever talk to your lecturers, you know don't be  afraid to ask questions.
I came from a farming background but it doesn't necessarily mean I know everything about agriculture and I think don't like just don't be nervous to ask anything and make friends have fun and I've definitely made friends for life.
My name's Cameron Gleed and I studied Rural Land Management.
The RAU is a fantastic environment for learning and socialising, it's been brilliant, I've really enjoyed the small uni aspects of it, the the small class sizes and the lecturers' backgrounds they've, we've had a really good really good range of, a really good range of different experiences, from the mocks and the tutorials all the way up to all the way up to more sort of more theoretical side of things, it's been a really great small environment to learn, it has been a really small friendly University.
I was involved in setting up the RAU Land and Real Estate Society so I started in my, when I was in my second  year I started that up with helping postgrads and I took over in my third year.
We ran dinners we ran a few talks and socialising events and it was a brilliant opportunity to be  able to engage with not just the undergraduates but also some postgraduate students as well and being a core Society we were able to sort of link it into our the future employment.
The RAU has been a great building block to get me to where I am right now which is about  to start a graduate surveyor job with George Webb Finn back in Kent, and I'm hoping to sit my APC and my CAV examinations in the next few years and become a qualified land agent.
I'm Malvina Winston and I did Entrepreneurship Enterprise, the bachelor's degree.
it is such a weird feeling cos I'm an international student and when I came over to the UK and all my time in the UK has been  about being a student, so now that part of my life is done it feels a little weird so, but also exciting and looking forward to the future and the job role being the Alumni Engagement Officer, so that will be really nice looking forward to working with all all the rest of the team.
So as part of the course that I did it was very much interlinked with the Enterprise team and their workshops and networking event and obviously the First Steps Fund, the Next Steps Fund, this degree helps develop your business idea and you have mentors help support you through about the development of your idea and you pitch for ideas and especially there a big Dragon Den style Grand Idea competition, in my first year I was a finalist for it and I got  to meet Levi Roots, he is amazing, and it's just been such an exciting experience being able to practice what I've learned through the modules.
My name is Herbie Frankcom, I studied Rural Estate Management.
My name is Erin Forsyth and I studied a Master's in Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security.
I work at BCM Wilson Hill down in Winchester as a Rural Surveyor.
Yeah it's good, it's nice it's come around and it's just a nice day everyone seeing friends that actually haven't seen since I finished uni so it's really nice.
I spoke to uh the careers advisor who helped me you know progress my CV also my personal statement which yeah then helped me with questions as well before my interviews which just really good, and also we had lots of milk rounds where lots of different companies then came in to go and see us which then led me to go and apply at BCM Wilson Hill and got me the job.
Having done an undergrad degree it's nice to be coming to the RAU where it's quite small and you can you know everyone who's  doing Master's, like Herbie and I aren't on the same course and friends it's really nice to just like hang out and being able to play sport you still know the undergrad so it's really nice it just feels kind of like a bit more the community.
Yeah we all studied together as.
yeah so we all did our like revision and libraries and yeah really got to know other people than, you know, than our course.
So I've just got a job as an Assistant Rural Consultant with Agrovista so I'm very happy.
So I love playing hockey I was in the ladies' first team and we actually got to the final, or the BUCS Cup final which is quite it's separate to the the BUCS League, you get a trophy or a medal if you win and um we lost it due to a squirrel running across the pitch so we stopped playing they kind on playing and they scored a goal and near hit the squirrel but we came second which was a great moment for RAU being such a small university in comparison to the universities that we play against, we've got two teams they've got about seven, so it was really nice for us to get a medal and just really enjoy that as a team.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/university-life/graduation/graduation-programme-2025:
Time
Venue
07:30
Reception opens for ticket collection
The Labs Foyer (former Frank Garner building)
Gowns available for collection and photography
Tithe Barn
10:00
Marquee opens for guests and Graduands
Marquee
10:15
Reception closes
The Labs Foyer
11:00
Academic procession begins
From the Quad
11:05
Ceremony commences
12:15
Ceremony concludes
Drinks and canapes
Bathurst
15:30
Gowns to be returned by this time

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/university-life/graduation/planning-your-day:
Make sure you have a look at the Graduation programme before the graduation.
That way you can make plans and ensure your day runs smoothly.
We have a limited amount of good value accommodation available for graduating RAU students, family and friends.
Single, twin en-suite bedrooms are available.
If you would like to book accommodation or have any queries, please contact the Conference team on shortstay @rau.ac.uk .
Alternative accommodation can be found in Cirencester through the visitor information centre www.cirencester.co.uk/wheretostay/ .
Travel information
Information on how to reach the campus can be found here .
Parking
There will be free parking available on the RAU campus.
Please enter via the Stroud Road entrance.
Parking Permits will be available from 1 September 2025.
Ticket collection
Admission to the Ceremony for all guests is by ticket only.
All guest, including children, will require a ticket.
As the graduating student, you do not need a ticket; but please ensure you have booked through Ede and Ravenscroft .
Due to limited space, guest tickets are available on a first-come, first-served basis.
Bring your confirmation email to the registration desk on campus on the day of Graduation to collect your tickets.
You will also be able to collect drink tokens from the registration desk on the day.
Gown collection
Your gown is hired from Ede and Ravenscroft.
You will be advised where to collect your gown and have your photographs taken (if pre-booked).
Please note, students will not be permitted entry to the Graduation Ceremony without a gown.
Arrival at your ceremony
When you have collected your tickets and gown, you may proceed to the Graduation site at the front of the University.
You will need to arrive at least 30 minutes before the ceremony starts.
Please be aware that dogs are not allowed at the Ceremony.
Photography
Please avoid obstructing the view of other guests or causing a distraction when taking photographs.
Please avoid flash photography.
Return of hired hoods and gowns
Before you leave, please return your academic dress by 15:30 on the day of your Ceremony.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/after-you-graduate:
After you graduate you may want to explore your career options.
You might be considering further study, thinking about starting a business or taking some time out.
For those who are considering further study, have a look at our postgraduate courses .
Did you know?
Additionally, alumni may also be eligible for other funding in the form of scholarships, bursaries and awards.
The 20% reduction in fees is available to visiting students who have completed a minimum of one term of studies at the RAU campus, and also to RAU students studying at one of our UK partner colleges or on one of our International Programmes.
Our careers service is always on hand to help, even after you graduate.
Find out more about how the careers service can help.
Welcome to a global network of 17,000 former students in over 50 countries.
There are many benefits to staying connected and further support we can offer including:
And, if you have not done so already please do join our Official RAU Alumni LinkedIn Group .
If you have any queries regarding your certificate please contact: graduation@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/graduation/honorary-fellowships:
Fellowships are normally awarded at the annual Graduation ceremony for the award of degrees.
Before founding Leon, Henry worked at Bain & Company on private equity transactions and helping large companies to develop their strategies.
Previously he was a journalist at the Daily Telegraph and a commis chef at the Michelin-starred Inn on the Park restaurant in London.
Henry is a regular speaker on how to create a purposelead business and how to create a better food system.
He is the co-founder and chair of Chefs in Schools and sits on the board of Rockfish.
He also advises the CEOs of a handful of high growth leisure businesses.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/enterprise-video:
Enterprise is really important as a fundamental skill.
Students get involved from day one at the RAU with the Enterprise Programme.
At the end of last year we conducted some focus groups and from that we have launched a new enterprise offering.
This will be support in three different ways.
To start off with we have Ignite Inspire, this is for all students, we will be conducting workshops, we will have guest speakers along, and this is for everyone to just offer some inspiration for them.
Ignite Nurture, this is when we are nurturing those students who are looking to start up their own businesses.
We've supported so many fantastic student entrepreneurs throughout their journey.
Examples include people like the Dartmoor Shepherd, Lewis Steer, Beaufort and Blake with their dress shirts and many other food businesses including Coppernose Jerky.
To undertake this process without the RAU's backing would have made it a lot harder.
Their wealth of experience, their contacts, all the things they've helped with has really made this experience a lot easier.
The third part of our Ignite offering is Ignite Venture.
This is where we showcase our award-winning Cotswold Hills wine.
Students have always been at the heart of Cotswold Hills as a social enterprise project back from when we launched it in 2016 when we took on the vineyard, students helped us choose branding,
they helped us to choose which varieties we were going to have, that provides students with a fantastic opportunity to develop their employability and enterprise skills as well as provide an income to our entrepreneurial fund.
Through the three strands of our new enterprise programme Ignite, we're looking to empower our students and give them everything they need to follow their dreams and ignite success.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/dhaval-bhoi-case-study:
The Royal Agricultural University stood out as the ideal place to pursue my degree because it combines centuries-old agricultural expertise with a forward-looking approach.
Positive testimonials from current students and alumni further reinforced my decision.
A rich heritage, affordability, exceptional facilities, supportive tutors, and clear career pathways, made the RAU my unequivocal choice for advancing my ambitions in agricultural science.
Every day at the Royal Agricultural University reaffirmed my desire to stay on campus; each sunset marked another lesson that broadened my knowledge and honed my professional focus.
From the first semester, immersive farm walks and field visits took me to local arable and livestock enterprises, organic holdings, research plots, and businesses pioneering sustainable practices.
Trips to leading agricultural exhibitions and well-curated career fairs deepened this exposure, linking classroom theory to real-world innovation and future employment.
The defining highlight, however, has been the mentorship of my tutors—Karen Rial-Lovera, Nicola Cannon, Jessica Stokes, Philip Hudson, William Leschallas, Christopher Brough, and Tom Westbury.
Their encouragement, rigorous questioning, and genuine care fostered an environment where debate thrived, and confidence flourished.
Because of their support, I secured the Douglas Bomford Scholarship, published the first research paper on honey-bee sentience in history, contributed to doctoral-level projects, attended the London City Food & Drink Conference, earned the Vice-Chancellor’s Top Academic Achiever Award, and received a nomination for the 2025 LBEL Awards.
The freedom to engage in open discussion, think critically, and apply theory in the field has shaped my career and gave me a clear direction to achieve my goal of becoming an agricultural research scientist.
I will carry the lessons, opportunities, and kindness bestowed by my tutors throughout my career—and remain profoundly grateful for the role they played in helping me become the person and professional I am today.
I worked in the food supply industry for my work placement while carrying out my own field trials at RAU’s living lab and volunteering for an ongoing PhD research.
On one hand the supply chain industry equipped me with industry-specific skills and a plethora of transferrable skills, working on field trials and PhD research project helped me have a hands-on experience related to research methodologies, trial design, agronomy, laboratory operations, and I also learned to use C&N machine, atomic absorption spectrometry, carry out soil analysis, soil nutrient analysis, soil microfauna and biodiversity analysis and many more.
The skills I developed and learned during such a short interval are unimaginable and I hope that these skills would come in handy in future when I begin working as a researcher.
My studies at RAU have given me a robust foundation in research and hands-on agricultural science.
I feel well-prepared, not just in technical skills but in the ability to critically assess challenges, design solutions, and adapt—qualities that are vital for a career in agricultural research.
I am confident and consider myself an outstanding candidate for the role of an agricultural researcher.
To anyone considering the RAU, I’d say this is the place that will bring out your best.
The community is supportive, the opportunities for growth are unmatched, and the mentors here genuinely invest in your success.
I’ve studied elsewhere and spoken with students at other universities, and the difference at RAU is clear: here, you have the chance to excel—both as a student and as an individual.
If you’re passionate about agriculture and want an environment that will nurture and challenge you, look no further.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/lolly-tunnicliffe-case-study:
I chose to study at the RAU because it is a small close-knit university offering a unique range of courses, and one of a few that specified a degree in environment and sustainability.
I will be going into my second year of studying BSc (Hons) Environment and Sustainability in September 2025.
I think one of my favourite memories of the course so far has been the trip to Rhossili in Wales.
Learning from lots of different speakers in stunning locations, spending time with friends, and then to top it off spotting the northern lights in a dark bay where the hostel was, made the trip!
What I’m enjoying most is the small lecture sizes, meaning you can form easier friendships and be more supported through work, as well as the mixing of different courses.
This means you gain knowledge and experience from other branches of the subject you are studying.
In the future I would like to go further into the practice of sustainable farming and how it impacts other aspects of the environment, as well as the benefits for the food industry in the UK.
I would like to also like to be part of a smallholding practising these techniques.
The RAU has helped me with this by showing me soil sampling techniques and helping me build up my identification and survey skills, as well as taking me to a few different locations where farming has been practiced.
To any students looking to study at the RAU, I would say go for it!
The RAU is a unique place full of people from different backgrounds but there will be a bunch that you fit in with.
The course is really expanding my knowledge that I gathered on my previous BTEC and I’m enjoying it.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/lauren-day-case-study:
I chose to study at the RAU due to it being a smaller campus with smaller classes, whilst still getting the expertise within your lectures.
The opportunity to specialise within a degree and getting integrated learning of Science and Business meant I did not just have to choose one route to go down, or limit what I wanted to learn.
I found the wealth of knowledge within a small equine team at the RAU to be incredible!
The lecturers and the Student Support Team have been a lifeline specially through my dissertation.
You have endless support and you never feel alone.
There is always someone around to help and guide you to be the best you can be.
The highlight of my course was easily the opportunity to go to Ireland.
It was amazing to see behind the scenes of so many places, and having world class industry leaders in bloodstock, breeding, trainers and owners speak to you is a once in a lifetime opportunity.
I will always be grateful for the Ireland trip, as if that were not an option, I would not be in the job I have today.
My course found me my current role!
The endless amount of information provided by the RAU equine team, the Ireland trip, and guest speakers who provided an insight into a working industry, have all given me a leg up in interviews by being able to apply what I’ve learnt to a real-life industry.
When on the Ireland trip I was told about the ITBA (Irish Thoroughbred Breeders’ Association) internship.
Now, I am proud to have been selected to take part and grow my knowledge in Ireland, where I will be focusing on Marketing, and how we can reduce the challenges next gen breeders may face.
The RAU has been so supportive, especially my lecturer and dissertation supervisor, Tracy Bye.
I cannot thank Tracy enough for everything that has been done for me.
Without Tracy I would not have a degree, let alone a prestigious internship in Ireland!
If you’re thinking about coming to study at the RAU I would say ‘GO FOR IT!’ My time spent at RAU has been the best years of my life.
I have made friends for life and contacts that will help me carve my future.
Coming to the RAU was one of the best choices I’ve ever made.
So, put in that application - you won’t regret it!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/babatunde-oseni-case-study:
I decided to come to RAU to enhance my knowledge in the agri-business space.
The university's reputation in these fields aligned perfectly with my passion for creating solutions to the challenges we currently face to achieve the SDG goals.
One highlight was a three day trip exploring some facilities around Cornwall, including the Cornhill farm, Eden Project and the historical Lanhydrock House.
We learnt about their business operations and how they utilize different approaches to maximize cost and profit.
It was a very educational experience, as I observed in real time the challenges business faces, and how different sectors have different approaches to being sustainable.
Of course, I also love our magnificent campus!
I’m an avid reader of history, so going to classes in halls that feel like Hogwarts is a nice touch, also the surrounding farms and beautiful estates around the centre Cotswold just gives a grandiose vibe.
The University’s emphasis on practical, experiential learning has been invaluable.
I like the small class sizes and intimate learning environment at RAU; it helps foster close relationships with both school colleagues and lecturers.
This enables more engaging discussions, personalised attention from the lecturers, and opportunities to delve deeper into topics that interest me.
In the long term, my goal is to continue to develop solutions to some of the food supply chain challenges we currently face in west Africa.
The RAU has provided me with a strong foundation by providing a combination of theoretical knowledge and practical skills.
It has also provided networking opportunities by giving me access to experts in various sectors especially agribusiness and land management.
The enterprise and employability team organise events and fairs to help students stay in touch with potential employers.
I did a placement year at British Airways in a sustainability role as Customer Sustainability/Customer Accessibility Executive.
The placement not only developed my professional skills and knowledge but also confirmed my passion for working in corporate sustainability.
It provided a valuable complement to my studies at RAU, the practical insights I’ve gained in the past year will shape my future career decisions.
British Airways is massive!
I got to work with people from across the world and all backgrounds.
The networking opportunities were amazing and I’ve met so many people professionally.
The placement provided me with practical, industry-specific knowledge that complemented my theoretical learnings from RAU.
I've since been offered a place in British Airways  'Future leaders Graduate' programme.
It's a rotational three year graduate programme where new recruits get to work across the business in both operational and managerial roles.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/oliver-o%27brien-case-study:
I chose to come to the RAU because I wanted to study a course that gave me a clear direction post university.
The RAU is well regarded within the land and property industry and as a RICS accredited degree it opens up an infinite number of doors in regards to graduate schemes.
I am enjoying how varied the course is.
It gives students a wide understanding of many subject matters; whether that be business and accounting, law, valuation or agriculture just to name a few.
I recently had the opportunity to visit Stonegate’s main egg packaging facility in Chippenham.
It was absolutely fascinating to see this stage of the production process first hand, learn about their corporate strategy, and sample some incredible egg-based dishes.
Whenever I feel stuck on an assignment the lecturers are always incredibly approachable and willing to support you in order to achieve the best possible mark you can.
I did my work placement at Grosvenor Property.
The thing I enjoyed most was the opportunity to gain insight into how a prime, mixed-use portfolio was adapting its strategy and asset mix in a post-COVID world.
It was fascinating to see how such a prestigious company is evolving to meet new challenges and opportunities.
I learned during my placement the importance of balancing heritage and innovation within property management.
Grosvenor’s approach to modernising assets while preserving their historical value gave me a whole new perspective on long-term asset stewardship and sustainable development.
I have recently accepted a commercial real estate placement at Savills, London.
The RAU careers team supported me with 1-1 sessions on preparing my CV, ensuring it was more structured and professionally written, which I have no doubt significantly enhanced my application.
To any prospective student considering studying land and property at the RAU I would say go for it!
It’s a fantastic and highly employable course, but remember—you get out of university what you put in.
So dive in and make the most of everything the course and university has to offer.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/etai-phiri-case-study:
I joined the RAU because I was looking for a course that integrated business with agriculture.
There have been many highlights studying at the RAU, however one that stands out was when during one of my modules we had guest lectures come and talk about their respective area of expertise.
I’ve found that the small size of the university means that you are known personally by your lecturers and they are more willing to have one on one chats and respond to emails, and having those smaller lecture sessions results in more detailed learning.
One area that the RAU staff are supporting me is time management, whereby the lecturers are helping me create a guide and timeline to achieve goals such as completing assessments.
I've done business for a number of years and specifically this university course in business I think has prepared me a lot better going into more of the nitty-gritty of business aspects, things like imports, exports, tariffs, and especially about agri-business.
I undertook my work placement in Zambia and was overseeing operations on a hybrid poultry farm.
I enjoyed that I was not just in one place - I was allowed to move around departments and different farms with field work and office work intertwined.
This gave me a good refresh whenever I learned what I could from one department, before moving to the next.
I gained knowledge in all areas of running a business, from the operational side to the more "political/legal" side, as well as practical skills.
My future goal is to go back to Zambia (after some work experience and a master’s degree) and begin my own aquaponic farm.
The RAU is helping me by providing me with the knowledge is the subject specific field that I need to start my own farm.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/david-ridley-case-study:
I chose to study at the RAU because the Covid-19 pandemic led me to look for alternate career pathways.
I initially intended to go to London and study economics, however the pandemic led me to realise that I valued a close knit community where support was at the heart of the organisation.
This then tied in with the future career prospects in Real Estate and Land where human interaction is at the forefront.
I found that the smaller lecture group size at the RAU meant that all lecturers has ample time to discuss material or assignments on a 1 to 1 level which greatly increased the fulfilment of both attending lectures and engaging fully in the assessment process.
One highlight was the guest lecturers who gave insight into the real world of surveying instead of the paper and theory-based sides.
I found this incredibly valuable when applying for postgraduate jobs as it gave insight into the markets, business operations and it also gave context to what we were studying.
The small class sizes combined with the knowledge of the industry provided by lecturers was second to none, providing excellent theoretical knowledge and providing real world examples to show how the theory equates to reality in the work place.
The thing that I enjoyed most about the RAU was the community - from fellow students to lectures and staff, the university was always an enjoyable place to be.
This followed through from first year, where living on campus meant having fellow students near, to second and third year, whilst living in private accommodation the student community remained close by.
My course prepared me for my current role, with its focus on employability and with assignments having a real world purpose, meaning that I had a higher level of competency in day to day tasks associated with being in the work place as well as more industry specific tasks.
I would highly recommend the RAU and encourage future students to take every opportunity whilst at uni, whether this be field trips or joining a society -your uni experience will be what you make it and there is something for everyone at the RAU.
I am now a Graduate Surveyor working within the water and power generation team at Dalcour Maclaren.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/study/case-studies/emily-dinning-case-study:
I chose to study at the RAU as I loved the small campus and class sizes, and how much individual support you get from your lecturers.
I had a deep interest in both the equine and agricultural sides of my course, so really liked that there was a combination of both.
It was also very beneficial having the business aspect in the degree, as it made it very transferrable.
The highlight I experienced on my course was our trip to Newmarket, as it made me realise how many different job opportunities there are within the equestrian industry; and made me realise I wanted to work in racing!
I loved living in the Cotswolds for a few years whilst at the RAU, and made some amazing friends.
The course gave me a thorough understanding of both the equine industry, and the basic principles of business.
Both the modules taught and the lecturers encouraged us to explore different areas of the equine industry, which led me to pursuing a career in racing.
I went to Bath Racecourse for my work placement, and they offered me part-time work during my final year.
After I graduated I was offered a full-time position and am now a Business Co-ordinator at Bath Racecourse!
To any prospective student thinking about studying an equine degree at the RAU I would say - do it!
I couldn’t recommend it more :)

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/the-agri-food-chain-during-times-of-crisis:
Currently, I am working towards an MSc in Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security at the RAU.
It was an ideal place for me to hunker down and research, and has allowed me to delve into the world of agriculture at both the global and local levels.
My diverse course has provided me with the opportunity to meet some absolutely wonderful people.
I have thorough discussions with course mates from all over the world, and have greatly enjoyed the numerous lectures and talks that have opened me up to new perspectives on global issues.
We are currently living through a moment that will be remembered for a lifetime.
The Covid-19 pandemic has led to disruptions throughout the globe and within many supply chains and has also led to innovative webinars and research among all interested in understanding the impact of the virus.
I have taken part in many webinars and discussions surrounding a specific topic I may be a bit obsessive about: the impact on coffee – from supply chains to the efficient farming systems in developing nations – and the industry as whole.
After the past two months of assessment, discussions and research, I have discovered that the coffee industry has been impacted in some regions more than others.
This is primarily occurring within the producing countries.
However, there are also the cafes that have been closed, not brewing and selling coffee for months.
Each producing region has experienced some form of alteration with production and trade.
Central America for example, had completed its harvest amidst the outbreak, with low records of cases and less-strict regulations allowing the coffee sector to easily work towards next year’s harvest.
The transport and sale of coffee has been able to continue despite global conditions.
Mexico, has initiated little lockdown measures and has still maintained coffee sales – and a similar story occurs in Nicaragua.
South America, on the other hand, has faced more issues as harvests loom and countries struggle to find workers to pick the coffee that is left to rot.
With Brazil, the powerhouse coffee producer, and Colombia a close third in worldwide coffee production (behind Vietnam), these countries are struggling to find ways to adapt.
Venture across the globe and hard lockdowns in Africa have impacted coffee production, such as in Kenya where labour is difficult to acquire.
In Asia, China’s harvest, for example, coincided with the beginning of lockdowns, leading to a detrimental reduction in harvest due to lack of labour.
Over half of the world’s coffee is produced by smallholder farmers, all of whom have limited access to resources and markets; making it difficult for them to cope during a global crisis like this.
At the production level, the impact really depends on duration of harvest, access to labour, and on the value coffee has within each country’s market.
Yet, thanks to importers and coffee roasters, some producers have been able to maintain contracts and sales.
Coffee is one of those commodities that is produced and traded throughout the world.
In order to recover, the whole supply chain needs to support producers and ensure contracts are maintained and payments made.
Producers can then assess in what ways they can make their systems more resilient.
For me, I think understanding the impact of global crises on our food security is key to providing future guidance to producers for mitigation and adaptation.
Post-RAU, I yearn to work with smallholder producers to establish a knowledge network, providing farmers with information and resources to create resilient and sustainable systems within various farming communities.
The RAU has not only opened me up to new, innovative ideas, but has also provided me with a unique learning experience.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/a-typical-week-at-the-rau-for-a-commuting-student:
By Georgia Wakeley
Monday: Today I have a lecture on Consumer Behaviour from 2:30pm until 5:30pm.
I usually wake up around 8am.
My breakfast usually consists of porridge or leftover soup.
I spend the morning reading over the lecture notes so that I can pay better attention during the lecture, and any questions I have may either be answered as our lecturer talks or I can ask them at the end.
If I have any time left over in the morning I will carry on doing some coursework for this subject.
My commute takes me about half an hour, so I leave just before 2pm.
When my lecture finishes at 5:30, I go home, and due to living with my parents, dinner is usually ready at 6pm.
I spend the evening doing research for my dissertation, transcripting interviews, doing coursework or writing up lecture notes.
Tuesday: I leave a few minutes before 8:30am - this way I can miss the traffic caused by the coaches trying to pull into the college across the road.
My 9am-12pm lecture is on International Business, and we have an external lecturer.
He doesn’t use presentations, but he is very engaging, and his lecture turns into a class-wide discussion and debate.
Depending on what I have left to do, I will either spend a few hours in the library doing work and reading past dissertations or go home and work at my desk.
Wednesday: Wednesday’s can vary week by week.
Due to being a student ambassador, Open Days usually take place on Wednesdays, so I either spend these days working as a SA from 9am-4pm, or if there is no work I get some coursework and research done.
You may have noticed by this point I don’t do a lot of exercise!
This is because I had an accident involving my knee during my second year, which meant for a long time I couldn’t stand, walk or bend it.
I am now much better after having an operation and will start physio soon.
In my second year I belonged to the Boat Club, Polo Club and Ladies Rugby (where I had the accident!).
During my first year I was a bit of a gym-freak and spent up to two hours a day exercising and swimming at the gym.
This is where I want to get back to!
Thursday: Today I have a lecture from 10am-1pm in Marketing, but I usually meet my classmates for a group meeting at 9am to talk about what we are doing and who should do what.
The lecture starts at 10am, and we have a seminar from 12pm-1pm.
Like Tuesday afternoon, I may spend a few hours in the library if I need to get something done.
This is the last day of hard working for me as I burn out quite fast, so I will finish off any research and work tonight.
Friday: is a free day!
I get up leisurely and have something nicer to eat for breakfast such as bacon or eggs.
This is usually the type of day where I will visit one of my friends.
In the summer, we usually go swimming together, have pizza and play board games or hang out and get dinner together.
As I am writing this, this Friday I will get the train to Bristol to meet my friend.
If the evening is quiet, I will retreat to my room again to do some more coursework.
Saturday and Sunday: Like Wednesday, sometimes there are Open Days, so I try to work these days.
Otherwise, Saturday and Sunday are my family’s entertaining days, where we host other family members or guests for lunch/dinner or events as we don’t do these during the week.
In warmer weather I will spend a lot of time outside, and play polo on Sundays (I haven’t been able to do this for a while as last time I rode I fell off and cracked a rib!), and spend Saturday and Sunday evening watching TV with my family and doing my embroidery.
I may make a soup on Sunday for the week ahead.
I hope a few people take comfort from this blog that university doesn’t have to be all about who stays out the longest and who has the most debt and struggles to pay for their food shopping.
Third year will be the quietest year for most students as they knuckle-down and do their dissertations.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/things-to-bring-to-university:
Things you don't need to pack:
A helpful tip: you can contact accommodation to find out what your room is furnished with if you're not sure!
Jess Palmer, 1st Year Agriculture student

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/questions-that-students-should-ask-at-open-days/-0:
By Jess Palmer

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/questions-that-students-should-ask-at-open-days:
A lot of courses will have 60/40 2-part courseworks, some will have an exam or two, but this is gradually being phased out.
Depending on the course you do.
During first year you will share modules with other students so you may have up to 100-150 student together in the lecture hall.
After this you will have smaller group sizes, from 15-30 depending on the course.
Larger courses will have larger student group sizes.
Yes, nearly all the courses have a placement module in the summer of second year.
In recent years it was 20 weeks but when you arrive at the RAU it will be 15 weeks.
No, the university does not usually organise this, you need to find, apply and secure the job.
The RAU has a great careers office with a list of RAU graduates and associations that delightfully take on students from placements if you are stuck.
The lecturers are amazing people and are the student’s first port of call when you need support.
Each student is assigned a personal tutor who will want to meet you once or twice a term to catch up with you and see how you are doing.
Each course will have course representative meetings once or twice a term, and you will have several student representatives in your course, so if you have any problems with the university or course that you want to express anonymously, this can be done through them.
The university also has an anonymous box for students to write into.
The university also has careers support, enterprise support, dyslexia, Student Hub, Student Union, Wellbeing, counselling, STARS, disability, academic and health care.
Do not worry, everyone here is here to help.
Absolutely.
Most lecturers have rapid-fire responses to their emails and know everything about the course, the module and the coursework.
Very rarely do they have to ask another lecturer for an answer.
They are all professionals with outstanding industry experience.
On campus – easy socialisation, meals and access to lecturers and student facilities.
You also have greater independence.
It can get expensive and you may get a bit homesick.
Off campus – home – cheap!
But socialising may be a bit more difficult if you live further away; if you drive you can’t drink etc.
In town – cheaper housing, you get to live with people of your own choosing, make your own meals and may have easier access to town.
You may have to share bathrooms and communal areas with other people and they may not be as tidy and clean as you thought L
The RAU has over 50 clubs and societies, and students can create new ones at the Student Union at any time if there is enough interest to found a new one.
We have everything, and due to our location, we can offer some that other unis struggle with, such as boating, polo, horse riding, archery, shooting, ski trips and enterprise.
I did not do great at A Levels.
I was having way too much fun and flunked.
I still passed but I did not get the required grades.
At GCSE however, I was a straight A student.
If you prove that you will put in the effort and get high marks, you may still be offered a place.
It’s all in the Personal Statement.
It is also worth emailing admissions and talking to them if you are worried.
This cannot be guaranteed as nearly all first years apply for halls.
However, if you apply early, there is a fair chance you will get the accommodation you want.
Do not leave it too late!
The university does not have any off-campus accommodation, but the private landlords and student letting agencies in town are great, have good houses and look after them well.
They have accommodation typically in the town centre, Chesterton and Kemble.
The houses in Kemble are a bit more expensive but the house is much bigger, and it is a quieter area, however you will need a vehicle to get to campus as it is a little bit far away and there is no footpath.
Off campus housing is usually houses hosting 4-6 students, but there are a couple of flats right in the town centre too.
From the university to town, is about a 15-20 minute walk depending on how long your legs are and if you are going uphill or downhill.
This may be about 10 minutes if you cycle, and less than 5 if you drive.
If you live in Chesterton, you could have only a 10-minute walk.
Yep!
The university has 2 huge car parks.
All you need to do is register your car with Car Parking/Porters Lodge and you will be issued promptly with a permit.
You can bring more than one car depending on available parking spaces.
There is a railway station in Kemble that is on the Swindon-Cheltenham line.
If you go to Swindon you can change to go west to Cardiff or Plymouth, or East to Reading and Paddington.
There is a Stagecoach service in town that goes to Cheltenham and Swindon, and one that goes to Stroud.
There is a great bus service that goes through Cirencester and reaches a large area, which you can check out here: https://bustimes.org/localities/cirencester
Most students have part time jobs at local businesses or work full time during breaks.
If you have your parents supporting you, you may still want to have a part time job to have some extra money to get you by.
There are plenty of part time job opportunities in Cirencester and the local area, and especially if you come from a rural background and can work with farms, machinery and animals, there are plenty of roles for those in the local area.
The RAU does not offer any tuition fee waivers.
However, they have loads of bursaries which can be found here:
www.rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/undergraduate-bursaries-awards-and-scholarships
Most students may be applicable for these thankfully, unlike other universities, so check them out!
There are also a couple of external supports such as Lycetts and John Innes that can help cover the tuition fee cost.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/advice-for-looking-at-different-universities:
My biggest tip to all students is to thoroughly research, check and compare.
Don’t leave it until the last minute!
My biggest mistake when I was applying to uni was that I thought I wanted to go to a big city university, hours and hours away from home (I live in Wiltshire and was looking at universities like Lincoln, Aberystwyth and even Aberdeen.
So, I wasn’t looking at some great universities that were right on my doorstep, like Bristol, Bath, Gloucester, Reading and the RAU.
Three hours might sound very do-able, but if you end up wanting to go home every weekend, or get homesick, this may end up being too far to travel.
Driving six hours every weekend might not be ideal depending on your situation.
And consider transportation!
At some universities, especially those in cities, you may not be able to take your car due to lack of parking – luckily the RAU has 2 huge carparks!
– so you may end up having to use trains or buses to get back home.
This can end up super expensive and take much longer than you thought.
When I first moved to a city, the train tickets were £70 each way (even with a railcard), so I realised very quickly that I would have to save my money hard if I wanted to be able to go home.
Take a look at the different courses associated with the subject you want to study.
You may find that you want to do Agribusiness more than you wanted to do straight Agri!
And it is very important to look at the modules you will do on the course.
Even though you may like the title of the course, and the sound of the university, the modules may not be what you want, and when you have to study something you don’t like for three years, it can be very taxing.
Some courses have compulsory student work experience modules.
Truthfully, I skipped over this bit when applying, even though all universities had it in their courses.
I had worked a full year as a gap year before starting uni.
If I’d had my own choice, I’d have rather had a course that did not have work experience.
Unbeknownst to me, I actually qualified for a bursary or two from the RAU, but was under the assumption that I wouldn’t meet the criteria, so it’s important to look at them all.
Did you know at the RAU you can get a great bursary if you live in Wales, or if someone from your family is Welsh?
When you’re checking out universities and narrowing down where you want to go, you really should go to an open day, because when you finally move in this is going to be your home away from home, so it has to feel comfortable.
In my experience with the first university I went to, I did not go to an open day because I got onto the High Achievers Scheme, so I thought that was that for me.
When I actually got to move-in day, I was uncomfortable and homesick, I didn’t get on with my flat mates and the accommodation was not good.
If I’d gone to an open day, I’d have seen the accommodation, the campus and met the types of people that would be on my course, so I’d have known then that I didn’t want to go there.
Not all students have the honour of being a shareholder of The Bank of Mum & Dad Ltd, so we have to be real how we are going to afford the next three years.
Don’t pick accommodation based on how it looks, unless you know you can afford it.
Think about how much you will spend on food, going out, trips, transport and other things, and if you need to get a job what salary you would need and how many hours you would need to do.
Add up your maintenance loan, bursaries and income minus your total expenses.
This should help you narrow what area you can afford to live in.
Don’t force yourself to live on the breadline otherwise you will create a miserable life for yourself.
You need to have plenty of money (if you need it) to socialise!
Universities tend to pay better wages for their student employees than most surrounding employers, so check out what roles they have open to students.
This will make life much easier for yourself, and if you live on campus, you may only have a 5-minute walk to your job!
The RAU has several roles open to students, such as the Student Ambassadors in Recruitment and Marketing, Admin, Café, Dining Room and Housekeeping.
Websites such as WhatUni provides real student reviews about the university.
Check out the overall satisfaction and what students liked and disliked about the university.
These reviews aren’t vetted by the uni, so they are very truthful and representative of how students feel.
You aren’t going to spend all your time in a lecture theatre, so check out what is nearby that interests you, such as shopping, food outlets, clubs, museums and parks, and if they aren’t within walking distance, what the commute to those places is like.
Have a look at the sports and societies on offer as well and have a think about trying something that you haven’t done before!
And finally …
The brain does not always make the right choice, so listen to what your gut is telling you.
If you find something you are uncomfortable with or faults with the uni, then perhaps you shouldn’t go there.
University isn’t a choice to be rushed, so think carefully and find your perfect home away from home!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/why-i-chose-to-study-at-the-rau:
Toby Greenhalgh - 1st Year, BSc (Hons) Applied Farm Management
I had been working on farms throughout the last few years and found myself running a dairy herd in New Zealand.
Visa options were dwindling for me, therefore, I spoke to universities in New Zealand, and decided it was best to return to the UK and study for a degree to further my career.
I looked at many different universities throughout the UK where you can study agriculture, and I found that the RAU was the best one for me, especially as it is very local and I could study farm management there, which is what I want to go into.
I knew going to university at an older age would be different and I wasn’t sure how the other students were going to treat me.
However, I settled in right away and found out that there were many other students of a mature age too.
I joined the RAU football team to be more social and the team made me feel very welcome and accepted anyone from all different areas of life.
The university is a great place to live, study and work, with many resources such as the library and a free gym.
There are also many great resources in Cirencester which is only a short distance from the University, such as a leisure centre, high street shops and many walks to enjoy with friends.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/what-i-want-to-do-when-i-graduate:
By Jess Palmer, 1st Year, BSc (Hons) Agriculture
Before I came, I was so sure that I just wanted to go back and work on my family farm and farm pigs, however, the RAU has made me realise how much diversity there is within the agricultural sector and how much I am capable of.
After I graduate, I want to work within consultancy, hopefully as a geneticist in livestock, however I am also interested in business and management consultancy.
This is because I love the contact time working with people and understanding their unique problems and issues, and trying to be a friendly face if they're in need of help and advice.
Consultancy also gives me the flexible hours to carry on my farming career and my pig business, which means I can experience both my passions as a pig farmer and consultant.
I also want to get involved with the charity Farming Community Network, and volunteer with them and raise money for all the amazing work they do within the agricultural sector.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/why-i-chose-the-rau-to-study-agriculture:
I looked around three different agricultural universities and the RAU was a special place that stood out for me.
They offer an amazing course with a wide range of modules which allows me to have a firm grasp on the industry and trades associated, but the atmosphere is also incredible.
All the staff are so friendly and are willing to help you with anything, big or small.
If you just send them an email they get back to you either that day or schedule a meeting with you for the next few days.
They're so willing to help and be supportive.
The university also offer a student support system to make sure you get the best help, care and attention, with a support hub on campus that is open to students to either schedule a meeting or walk in and have a talk about anything.
The course itself is special as it enables students to not only be equipped with the practical skills that come with the industry but also the theory and science of why?, and the opportunity to study subjects around your course so you leave with not just a degree, but the practical skills and a broad understanding of the industry.
The university also pride themselves in all the extracurricular clubs and societies they offer, ranging from choir, enterprise and salsa dancing to sports such as lacrosse, rugby and netball.
There is always something on and a good social atmosphere.
They also do themed nights, such as karaoke night at the bar on campus, and on Friday’s there’s be a DJ or a live band for a social night at the bar.
However, if you're more interested in a chilled and relaxed evening then every Wednesday there's movie night at the student lounge and events such as yoga on a Wednesday and waffles on Sundays.
The university’s location was also a major selling point, with supermarket shops such as Aldi and Tesco only five minutes away, and the gorgeous market town of Cirencester only a short walk away with easy access to the local train station.
It is such a student friendly place to live.
There is also a buzzing night life for those who enjoy a night out, but there are also gorgeous and quiet cafes and book shops to explore.
All in all, I couldn't tell you one main reason why I chose to study at the RAU, it just ticked all the boxes for me as a place to study and a place I felt I truly belonged.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-1st-year-agriculture-student:
A typical day includes waking up at 6am and getting to the gym for 6.15am.
There's a free gym on campus for students which is so helpful for us.
I tend to leave the gym at around 7.15-7.30 am, come back home to my room and make myself some breakfast.
I'm self-catered and it's usually a warm and hearty porridge.
I then have some free time as lectures start at around 9am on a Monday, so I make my to do list for that day and start getting to work.
At 9am I have a two-hour lecture until 11am, and then a break until 1pm where I make myself lunch.
At 1pm we are either in the laboratories for two hours doing some practical work or we do a walk around one of the University farms and do some practical work out in the field.
I then have a second lecture from 3pm – 5pm, and then that's my contact hours for the day over.
Once I get back home I usually make myself a cup of tea and start dinner.
It's nice being self-catered as there are shops such as Aldi only five minutes away from the University.
The kitchen is also a nice space to have a catch up with my flat mates and so I will usually spend a bit of time in there.
Once I am finished with dinner I crack straight on with work, and then there is training for the sports teams at 6pm or 7pm, so I go to netball training on a Monday.
On a Tuesday there is also Salsa dancing on campus and that is always fun.
In the evenings there is usually some sort of social or club going on, so lots of opportunities for a laugh or a good time with friends.
You can find out more and apply for the Agriculture course here!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/nigerian-dinner:
By Tatenda Mazordoze, 1st Year, FdSc (Hons) Agriculture and Farm Management
It took four hours to prepare different types of food that are popular in Nigeria, and many students from different nations in different parts of the world came along to have a great night out eating Nigerian food.
The food itself was delicious, we kept commenting on it after a few minutes of regular conversation.
There was Nigerian music being played throughout the event and towards the end people could not help but stand up and start dancing along in harmony.
The food was slightly spicy because in Nigeria most of their recipes include spices.
This however did not stop me from digging in and going for a second round regardless.
We concluded the night by taking a few group photo in front of the wonderful Nigerian flag.
Each person returned back to their rooms with bigger bellies.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/catered-vs-self-catered-halls:
Being self-catered may seem different, it may seem a world away from those hearty family meals we are all used to, but as I soon learnt it can be just as easy and simple to recreate that same good food whilst you are at university.
When deciding on whether to be self-catered or catered for it is important to considerer these things:
Are you able to cook or willing to learn?
You don’t have to have much experience and it doesn't take long before you're whipping up good meals in the kitchen, the important thing is if you are willing to put the time in.
Timing is also another big thing
If you know you're going to be busy and not have that much time to cook for yourself, are you going to plan your meals in advance and bulk make or would it be easier to be catered for?
That being said, you should be aware of your own habits and schedule, like if you're a morning person or not and therefore breakfast would be served too late or dinner too early to fit around your own habits.
With this in mind being self-catered would be the better option.
Independence
Being self-catered allows you to experience true independence and growth, and makes it easier to move away from home.
In your second and third year when you’re not living on campus, rather than throw you in the deep end to learn to cook while your degree gets harder, it means it is one less thing to worry about.
Tips for self-catered students:
So if you do decide to be self-catered, what next?
How do you make sure you budget enough money so that you don't run out?
How do you make sure you plan your week so that you don't run out of food and you're not just living off ready meals and pot noodles?
Here are a few things you can do to avoid these situations:
Make cooking enjoyable.
If you enjoy something, you’re going to put more effort into it, this means your meals will be better and taste nicer.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/student-blog/things-i-wish-id-known-before-coming-to-university:
Although nothing is as valuable as first-hand experiences and learning for yourself, here are some things I wish I had known before starting university.
1.
Freshers’ doesn't have to be the best week of your life –
There’s a common misconception that Freshers’ week will be one of the best weeks of your life, however this might not always be the case.
You might feel pressure to settle in, find friends quickly, know your way around campus, join loads of clubs and have the best time socialising ever night.
The purpose of Freshers’ week is to give you opportunities to socialise to start the friend making process.
However, it is reasonable to say no to things and be homesick.
On a personal note, I was so homesick during Freshers’ that I cried every day.
And when I tell others that I did, they said they felt the same.
Homesickness is a normal thing and the good thing about the RAU is that they have support systems in place where you can go and talk to someone about it.
2.
Making friends –
The friends you make in university will be some of your closest friends, however, you don’t have to meet them during your first week, and you may not meet them until a few weeks into university.
My closest friends I met around a month into my university experience.
Good friends and close ones will be harder to find but so worth the wait when you do.
3.
University is not all about drinking –
There is a massive misconception that university is all about drinking, however, that is down to personal choice.
At university, we are here to get a degree and enjoy the social experiences but that doesn’t mean you have to drink, or you should feel pressured to do so.
It is normal and completely fine to turn down a drink and to choose not to if you want.
4.
Doing things last minute won’t get you the same great results –
Coursework written last minute will never be as good as something you genuinely have spent time on.
Invest and plan time for each piece of your coursework as they carry a lot of percentage for your overall grades.
5.
Don’t skip lectures –
You’re wasting your own money if you skip lectures.
Studies have shown you’re more likely to do well and achieve the results you want if you go to your lectures and engage with them.
6.
Use a planner –
This will be a life saver when you get given lots of different pieces of coursework all due at different dates, exam dates, socials and potential meetings.
You need to learn how to be organised quickly if you’re not a naturally organised person.
7.
Don’t sacrifice your physical or mental health –
Allocate time to relax, go to the gym, a walk around the town or park, or organise things with your friends that is different from what you normally do.
For example, once in a while organise a group movie night with pizzas or go to a coffee shop and just relax on an afternoon out.
You’re physical and mental health is key to success not only at university but also in life, you need to be able to enjoy yourself and make memories whilst also studying for your degree.
You should never feel guilty for taking time off as you need to look after yourself in order to do well in the educational side of life.
Furthermore, make sure you get enough sleep, you really don’t need to pull all-nighters or stay out ridiculously late and sacrifice sleep.
Make sure you aim for 7-8+ hours of sleep a night.
8.
Don’t feel bad if you don’t do as well as you thought you would –
You’re allowed to make mistakes, have bad days and most importantly of all, learn from them.
You are not your grades and they don’t define you or predict the rest of your semester - learn from the grade for next time.
9.
Your lecturers aren’t scary, use them; they’re a fountain of knowledge –
Your lecturers are more than willing to talk and sit with you in order to help you in both your degree and also any general concerns you have.
They’re always happy to listen and get to know you.
Take time to learn from them and show an interest in them as they value your time as well.
10.
It’s okay to not know what you want to do with your life after you graduate –
That’s what university is about - trying new things and personal growth in the hope that when you do graduate you have some idea about what you want to do or have a job lined up, but in your first year, this really isn’t important.
11.
Join clubs and societies or a sports team –
You get out of university what you put into it so join in!
To conclude –
University is an amazing experience.
Yes, it is scary to move away from home, but you’re about to embark on an amazing journey into adult life and employment.
It will be terrifying and unpredictable, but most of all an exciting and wonderful experience.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/finance-for-international-students:
Remember that accommodation and living costs are not included in these fees.
If you choose to live on-campus, accommodation costs can be found here.
If you are not classified as a UK student and are undertaking your first undergraduate degree, the tuition fee for 2025 will be £16,950.
Tuition fees cover the cost of a student’s academic studies.
This usually includes teaching costs, registration and examination fees (not repeat or trailing modules, re-sit fees or coursework resubmission).
Any costs associated with work placements will be the student’s responsibility.
Study tour charges may apply in addition on some courses.
Please refer to the fees on the individual course pages.
All prices in British pounds Stirling (GBP)
Once you receive your Student Visa, you are permitted to work for a maximum of 20 hours per week during term-time.
However, the University strongly recommends that you do no more than 10 hours per week paid employment so that you have time to concentrate on your studies.
Information about how to pay your fees can be found here.
Tuition fees and accommodation costs are payable in advance of registration on the course.
If you're an overseas student you may want to use a student living costs calculator to help with budgeting before you come to the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/life-in-the-uk:
With students from over 40 different countries, the University provides a sense of community for students and staff, while offering a stimulating, unique learning environment.
Students enjoy a wide range of facilities within the stunning University grounds, which provide a backdrop for a vibrant social scene.
We pride ourselves on being large enough that our facilities are on-site whilst offering a friendly atmosphere with a strong sense of community.
It is normal for new students to need support while adjusting to life in the UK and at university.
The RAU has a dedicated Student Services team to help students throughout their RAU journey and are available to provide information, advice and guidance on a wide range of issues.
Our goal is to support all of our students and ensure they have a rewarding experience from start to finish.
Our picturesque campus is located on the edge of Cirencester, a beautiful market town located between London, Birmingham, Oxford and Bristol.
It is at the centre of an attractive area of England called the Cotswolds (see map below).
The nearby town of Cirencester, which is within walking distance, is a thriving cultural hub.
Bath, Bristol, Oxford and Cheltenham are all within an hour of the University and London is within 90 minutes by direct train, with Kemble Railway Station just three miles from campus.
The University is a 90 minute drive from London Heathrow and within two hours of Bristol and Birmingham airports.
Working alongside business leaders and employers, they deliver courses that provide students with the tools, mind-set and networks they need to embrace the opportunities ahead and play essential, leading roles in shaping the future of the industry.
The reach and influence of the RAU alumni network worldwide is testament to this.
In 2019, the University was named as the safest university in England and Wales.
The Royal Agricultural University is a Student Visa Sponsor and is on the Home Office’s Register of Sponsors.
The RAU Alumni network is a growing global hub of approximately 17,000 former students, supporters and friends all around the world.
This network provides uniquely strong links to land-based industries and businesses.
One example of this is the job portal on the Alumni website where alumni advertise jobs.
The RAU offers catered and self-catered accommodation on campus, just a few minutes’ walk to the lecture blocks, library and study areas, dining room, café and shop, Students' Union bar, laundrette, gym and sports facilities.
Click here to find more details about living on-campus including the accommodation fees.
If students wish to live off campus, the accommodation team is on hand to help them find their place in Cirencester or the surrounding area.
Click here to find out more about living off-campus .
Students living off campus can catch the bus to and from University as the route covers areas in Cirencester which are popular with students.
Watch this video to hear why other international students love studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/delivering-high-quality-trans-national-education-%28TNE%29-experiences-for-students:
Commissioned by Universities UK and GuildHE as a voluntary exercise to demonstrate the commitment of UK higher education to deliver high quality trans national education (TNE) experiences for students, the Quality Evaluation and Enhancement of UK Transnational Higher Education Provision (QE-TNE) scheme relates to benchmarking and assuring the quality and standards of international teaching provision by UK universities.
It emphasises a UK-wide approach to the quality evaluation and enhancement of TNE and the vision for QE-TNE is for UK trans national education to be recognised worldwide as providing education of the highest quality, an outstanding student experience, added value and enhanced outcomes.
TNE offers students worldwide the chance to access UK degrees closer to where they live and is an important component of UK degree-awarding providers’ global engagement.
In 2019-20, 156 providers had students on TNE programmes, accounting for 453,390 students studying for UK awards through transnational provision, including through open and distance learning.
More than 70 universities from across the UK have now signed up to the scheme with more registering each day.
UK support for the scheme is being matched in host countries with quality and regulatory bodies in Egypt, Germany and United Arab Emirates (2021-22), and China, Saudi Arabia and Sri Lanka (2022-23) involved in planning for the QAA visits.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/short-term-study-visas-sts:
If you started living in the UK before 1 January 2021, you may be able to apply to the free EU Settlement Scheme .
If this is not the case, you will need to apply for a visa to study in the UK if your course is longer than 6 months .
The earliest date your visa will start from is 1 January 2021.
Irish citizens do not need to apply for a visa or to the EU Settlement Scheme.
You can stay in the UK for the length of your course plus an extra 30 days as long as your stay is no longer than 11 months.
The application fee is £186 for a Short-term study visa.
You will also have to pay the healthcare surcharge as part of your online application.
It usually costs £470 (correct in December 2020).
This is so you can use the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK.
Check how much you’ll need to pay before you apply.
You cannot:
You must be 16 or older to apply.
You will need to prove that:
If you are under 18 years old, you must also:
Information correct on 14 December 2020.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/standard-visitor-visa-route:
In order to enter the UK you must hold a valid visa.
The Standard Visitor Visa can be used for the following reasons:
The visa is also used for:
Read the guidance for more information about what you can and cannot do with a Standard Visitor visa .
Depending on your nationality, you may not need a visa to visit the UK.
If you do not need a visa, you’ll either:
You can check if you need a visa before you apply.
If your nationality is not listed here , then you are a Non-Visa National under the UK Immigration Rules, and you should read and follow the guidance in the Non-Visa National section below.
If your nationality is l isted then you are considered a Visa National under the UK Immigration Rules, and you should read and follow the guidance in Visa National section below.
You can apply:
You cannot get a stamp on your passport if you use the e-Passport gates.
You can apply for a Standard Visitor Visa at the Immigration Desk on arrival at a UK Border.
You will still need to carry with you the same application evidence as stated on the government website :
You will need to re-apply every time you enter the UK Border, even if you already have a stamp that has not expired yet (i.e.
from a previous visit to the UK).
However, you can apply in advance, which means you will not need to apply every time your enter the UK Border.
If you wish to do this, please follow the guidance in "Section 7: How do I apply for a Standard Visitor Visa?", below.
You must apply:
If you are a visa national, you will need to apply for your visa in advance of your visit to the UK.
A standard overseas UK visa application currently takes up to 15 working days, which is around a month.
Please, ensure you have given yourself enough time to make the application, receive your visa and travel to the UK.
Visit Visa application requirements are provided on the government website here: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/visitor-visa-guide-to-supporting-documents .
If you are applying on arrival :
If they are satisfied, they will endorse your passport with an ink stamp
If you are applying in advance :
You must apply for your visa in advance:
Once you have submitted your online application, you will need to attend an appointment to verify your evidence.
You will then receive a decision to the email address you provided in your application in about three weeks.
You will then need to either:
Once you have received your passport back, you should check your vignette for any errors, e.g.
spelling of name, the visa is valid for six months.
You can then travel to and enter the UK during the validity period of your vignette.
Once you arrive at the UK Border, go to the Immigration Desk to have your visa activated by the UK Border Force.
Before you leave the desk, please check that they have endorsed the right vignette by checking that it has the date of your entry stamped on it.
If it is not stamped, you may have to leave the UK and re-enter to activate your visa.
If the family members require a visa to travel ( visa nationals ) to the UK they will also need to apply for a Standard Visitor visa to attend a student’s graduation ceremony or visit them in the UK.
What they will need:
The application must include official translation of any documents that are not in English language.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/Graduate-Route:
The Graduate Route is a post-study work visa available to international students who have successfully completed an eligible degree at undergraduate level or above at RAU and who have a valid Tier 4 or Student Visa at the time of application.
The Graduate Route also replaces the Doctorate Extension Scheme (DES) visa.
The Graduate Route is an unsponsored, post-study work visa.
Graduates in this visa will be able to work in the UK for the duration of the visa.
The type of work included
The Graduate route visa does not include working as a professional sportsperson.
There are no minimum salary requirements or minimum number of hours on this route.
This scheme does not lead to UK settlement (permanent residency in the UK).
You will meet the qualification requirement if you have successfully completed a course of study for which you have been or will be awarded a UK Bachelor’s degree, a UK post graduate degree (Master's or Doctorate degree).
If the name of your course of study was changed by the Student sponsor, but the course content remained the same, or if an integral and assessed work placement or permitted study abroad programme was added, this will not prevent you from being able to meet the qualification requirement.
The qualification must have been gained during the last visa to study as a Student.
You will not be eligible to apply if you are awarded a lower qualification, unless the lower qualification is a full degree (e.g.
a Bachelors Degree).
E.g.
you will not be eligible if you exit with a PG Cert / PG Diploma upon course completion.
The RAU will need to report to the Home Office that you have completed your course before you can apply for the visa.
You must have held a Student/Tier 4 visa for at least 12 months if studying a course longer than 12 months or for the full duration of your course if the course is 12 months or less.
If, in the last 12 months before the date of your application, you have been awarded a scholarship or sponsorship by a Government or international scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK, you must provide written consent to the application from that Government or agency.
N.B: Students who are currently sponsored on the Doctorate Extension Scheme will not be eligible to apply for the Graduate Route.
There are several concessions to the study in UK requirement which have been introduced in response to the coronavirus pandemic for students due to graduate in 2021.
For information please see the useful links at the end of the page.
It is important to remember that these concessions are subject to change without warning, and do not form part of the immigration rules.
Dependent family members will be permitted on the Graduate Route, provided those family members are in the UK and they hold a valid permission as dependents of the main applicant on the Student/Tier 4 route.
New dependents’ will not be permitted, except where a dependent child was born in the UK during a period of Student or Graduate permission.
The Graduate Route will require a new visa application, which will only be possible from inside the UK.
It will include the payment of a visa application fee: https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/how-much-it-costs and the Immigration Health Surcharge.
Students will need to know the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) they used for their most recent Student (or Tier 4) application in order to apply for the Graduate Route.
RAU will make your CAS letter available upon request from visas@rau.ac.uk
As part of the Graduate Route scheme the RAU is required to report to UKVI that students have been awarded their degree.
Once we have done this you will be eligible to apply for the Graduate Route.
We will be contacting all relevant students via email to notify them once we have reported this to UKVI.
You have up until the expiry of your current Tier 4/Student Visa to submit your Graduate Route application.
We are only be able to submit a notification to UKVI that you have been awarded your degree once your marks have been ratified by the RAU’s Exam Boards and noted on our systems.
For Postgraduate Research students, we expect to submit a notification of award to UKVI within seven working days of the award being noted on the system.
While your Graduate Route application is being considered by the Home Office, you can continue to work under the conditions of your Student or Tier 4 visa.
When your Graduate Route visa is issued you can do any work, can take work at any level of salary or skill, be either employed or self-employed, except working as a professional sportsperson or coach.
The immigration rules state that you cannot study any course which could, in theory, be sponsored under the Student Route.
In this case examples of permitted study under the Graduate Route scheme would be:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/student-route-visa:
International students who want to study on an RAU Undergraduate or Postgraduate, Taught, full-time programme or do their PhD studies here will need to obtain a Student visa before the start of their studies.
On 5 October 2020 at 09:00 the Tier 4 route closed and has been replaced by the Student route.
If you have already applied under the Tier 4 route you do not need to take any action.
The two routes are very similar and are updating our website to reflect these changes
The Royal Agricultural University acts as their educational sponsor (Student Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3).
Students need to meet the following eligibility criteria:
To apply and get a Student visa you need to claim 70 points in total.
The University only sponsors full-time students under the Student visa route.
To see the Student route visa process step-by-step click here .
The University has a dedicated Visa Support Team who will guide you through the entire visa application.
They will check your application and supporting documents to ensure you meet all requirements before they clear you to submit your Student visa application.
Please click on the following links to read relevant detailed visa information for your study:
For the latest advice regarding Covid-19 please see www.gov.uk/guidance/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-uk-visa-applicants-and-temporary-uk-residents#outside-uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/travelling-outside-the-UK:
If you are a current RAU student on a Tier 4/Student Visa and you want to visit other European countries you will need to get a Schengen Visa .
This is a visa scheme within the European Economic Area and Switzerland to travel between all of these countries with one visa.
Usually you will need a short stay or travel visa that will allow a visit of up to three months in any six-month period.
For fees, eligibility criteria and documentation required please visit the relevant embassy website.
Applications should be processed in two weeks.
This sometimes can take a month and exceptionally two months.
We advise that you contact the consulate you are applying from to find out precise details and requirements for your travel.
Please ensure that during your travelling you look after your passport and your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) as many people fall victims of pick-pocketing, or lose their BRP during travelling.
If you lose your passport and BRP you would not be able to return to the UK until you got a replacement passport and a replacement BRP .
This is a lengthy and costly exercise so you should be careful about protecting your documents.
Your Tier 4/Student visa allows you to travel out of the UK and return while you are studying on your course.
This means that if your course is 12 months or longer you have four months additional time added to the duration of your Tier 4/Student Visa.
However, please note that if you leave the UK once you have completed your course and then travel back to the UK you will no longer be entering the UK for the purpose your visa was issued for (i.e.
study at the RAU).
So, you may be refused entry as your course has already been completed.
We strongly advise you not to travel outside the UK during the time at the end of your course.
If you decide that you need to travel then you may be allowed back in to the UK on your current Tier 4/Student Visa if you can show that:
You must carry any letter or new CAS with you to show to the Border Control Officer.
Travel outside the UK after the course end date is at your own risk as there is no guarantee of re-entry to the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/evisas:
This means the UKVI is replacing your student visas (in physical documents like BRP) with an online record of your immigration status (also known as an eVisa).
Students who already have an eVisa will not be affected by this transition.
Most EU, EEA and Swiss nationals, and some students who applied for their current immigration permission inside the UK, will have been able to apply using the UK Immigration: ID Check App and will already have an eVisa and a UKVI account.
It gives the access to your student visa information online (including providing a relevant share code to prove your immigration status for studying, working and renting).
You do not need to tell UKVI if your BRP expires on 31 December 2024 but your immigration status (for example, your visa) allows you to stay longer.
You will not need a BRP from 1 January 2025 as these will be electronic.
These will be called eVisas.
You’ll be able to prove your immigration status online, without a BRP.
To do that you first need to create a UKVI account.
See the videos below:
If you have not been contacted by the UKVI via email yet, you should be able to create your UKVI account and access your eVisa from summer 2024 as announced by the UKVI.
You should have a UKVI account if you used the ' UK Immigration: ID Check app ' to verify your identity as part of your immigration application process.
If you applied for your visa by submitting your biometric details in person at a Visa Application Centre, then it is likely that you do not have a UKVI account yet.
An important note about your UKVI account - you must not share your UKVI account with anyone else as this account should only be owned and accessed by yourself to provide your immigration status proof when required.
You can read about creating a UKVI account here.
If you already have a UKVI account you should have access to an eVisa, you should be able to continue to use the same account to View and Prove your immigration status after 1 January 2025.
You need to make sure that you keep your UKVI account up-to-date with any changes to your personal details (including your name, nationality and appearance), your contact details (address, email, and phone number) and your identity documents (your current BRP and/or passport).
You must also ensure that you have a current identity document linked to your UKVI account at all times.
You can find out how to update your UKVI account here .
You can find information about what to do if you think there is an error with your BRP or visa here.
You will need to generate a share code using the UKVI View and Prove your immigration status service (the share code must begin with an S) so, you can send your share code to visas@rau.ac.uk to update your student eVisa record at the University.
In the Autumn 2024, the University Visa Compliance team will also contact the student visa holders whose BRPs expire on 31 December 2024 and have not provided a share code, as a reminder to update their study eVisa expiry dates that are beyond 2024.
During 2024, for those who have BRPs, you must continue to carry your in-date BRP when travelling internationally until it expires.
From next year, airlines and other carriers will be able to digitally check your eVisa to confirm your immigration status if your passport is linked to your UKVI account.
When you create your UKVI account, you must add the details of any passport you wish to use for travel.
You can find out how to update your UKVI account here.
The UKVI has advised those BRP holders to continue carrying their BRP with them for international travel until it expires.
At present, there is no UKVI information available on what to do with the BRPs expiring on 31 December 2024.
When such information becomes available, it will be provided here so please check this section regularly for an update.
In the unlikely event that you have not heard from the UKVI this summer, or have further issues with updating your UKVI account, you can get in touch with the University Student Visa Compliance team by email for help on visas@rau.ac.uk quoting your student ID number with the description of the issues encountered.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/visa-advice-for-international-students/dependents:
From 25 July 2023, if you are making an application under any of these routes that includes a dependent partner, the requirements about your relationship will change.
Previously, the relationship requirements for these routes were specific to each route (the Student route, the Graduate route, and Skilled Worker route).
From 25 July 2023, the requirements will be housed in a central part of the rules: Appendix Relationship with Partner.
The majority of the requirements will remain the same.
However, there will be some differences that may need to be taken into consideration and it will be important to familiarise yourself with these requirements prior to your application.
To be able to bring dependant family members into the UK during your studies you must meet the following requirements if your course starts on or after 1 January 2024.
The course you study must be either:
For Student visa purposes a dependant is:
Applicants can read more information either on the UK Government website or the UKCISA website .
These can vary.
Unless you qualify for the UKVI differentiation agreement , if you study outside London, each dependant must show £680 for each month of immigration permission you have been granted (if your dependants are applying after you have received your permission) or will be granted (if your dependants are applying at the same time as you).
This is up to a maximum of nine months (therefore, a maximum figure of £6,120).
For information on how to apply as a dependant please visit the government website .
Full guidance is also available through the UKVI website .
Also, visit the UKCISA website for information and up-to-date developments or answers to questions raised with the Home Office regarding dependants .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/eta:
ETA is not a visa.
If you travel to the UK using an ETA you will still need to apply for a visitor visa upon arrival in the UK.
ETA is multi-use and is valid for two years.
It will replace the single use Electronic Visa Waiver (EVW).
It is applied for before you travel to the UK.
The ETA gives you permission to travel to the UK for up to six months for the purpose of tourism, visiting family or friends, business or short-term study.
ETA is only required for anyone who is allowed to travel to the UK as a visitor without having to apply for a Visitor Visa before travelling.
If you hold a passport for a country which is NOT on this list then you will need ETA in due course.
Nationals from countries on this list will continue to apply for Standard Visitor Visa in advance of travelling to the UK and will not need to apply for an ETA.
If you are a national from another country please check the UKVI Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List .
You do not need an ETA if any of the following apply:
Check if you need a UK visa
Whether you need an ETA depends on your nationality and when will you travel to the UK.
You can apply for an ETA if you are from:
For travel to the UK on or after 8 January 2025
Nationals from non-EU/EEA countries who do not usually need to apply for a visa before travelling to the UK as a visitor will require an ETA if travelling to the UK from the 8 January 2025.
Please visit the UKVI Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List .
*If you hold a passport issued by Taiwan that includes the identification card number issued by the competent authority in Taiwan.
For travel to the UK on or after 2 April 2025
Nationals from countries in the EU and EEA will require ETA if travelling to the UK from the 1 April 2025.
Applications for ETA can be made from the 5 March 2025.
You can apply for an ETA online using the online form or through the mobile app UK ETA which you can download from:
The App store: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/uk-eta/id6444912481
Google Play: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=uk.gov.HomeOffice.ho3
You will need:
You do not need to enter your travel details.
You can apply for an ETA any time before you travel as long as the ETA is valid for the date you intend to enter the UK.
Once it is granted the ETA will be linked to the passport you used for your application.
If you are refused an ETA you have not been refused permission to enter the UK and can still make a Standard Visitor application for the UK.
The ETA is granted via an email.
Watch the UKVI video on how to apply for an ETA .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/faqs-about-the-eu-settlement-scheme:
EU/EEA and Swiss students will be required to apply for a visa through the new Student immigration route from 1 January 2021.
If you choose to come to the UK on or after 1 January 2021, you:
Your time in the UK will not lead to permanent residence.
If you arrive in the UK on or before 31 December 2020, you will still be able to come under EU Freedom of Movement regulations and, once you are in the UK, apply for the EU Settlement Scheme.
There is no minimum time you have to spend in the UK prior to 31 December to be eligible for EU pre-settled status.
This means:
If you arrive in the UK before 31 December 2020, you will be able to exercise your EU Freedom of Movement rights until 30 June 2021.
If you plan to leave the UK permanently prior to 30 June 2021, you do not need to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme.
However, we strongly recommend that you do.
Some of the benefits of applying for the EU Settlement Scheme are:
You will be able to exercise your EU Freedom of Movement rights until 30 June 2021.
If you plan to leave the UK permanently before 30 June 2021, you do not need to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme.
However, we strongly advise that you do.
In this case you will have to apply under the new immigration rules.
If you are coming to the UK for a programme that is less than six months in length you will be able to come to the UK with a Standard Visitor Visa.
This visa allows you to study for up to six months in the UK (work placements or any type of work is not allowed with this visa).
If, however, you wish to do a work placement as part of your programme, or wish to work alongside your studies, then you will have to apply under the student immigration route.
Entry clearance applications opened from 5 October 2020, for entry to the UK from 1 January 2021.
The EU Settlement Scheme allows you to come and go from the UK as you wish.
If you have pre-settled status, you can leave the UK for up to two years, and your status will remain valid.
However, if you want to qualify for settled status after five years, you must not have any absence of more than six months at a time, or 12 months for certain reasons, such as a year studying abroad.
If you have settled status, you can leave the UK for up to five years, and your status will remain valid.
If you have pre-settled or settled status you will be able to work in the UK without any restrictions.
No, if you have settled, or pre-settled status you will be eligible for healthcare through the National Health Service.
You can be outside the UK for up to two years without your pre-settled status being affected.
However, in order to qualify for settled status, you must not have absences of more than six months, or 12 months in certain circumstances, such as for a study abroad year.
Your settled status will remain valid while you are outside the UK for five years (this is four years for Swiss nationals).
In order to qualify for settled status, you must not have had an absence of more than six months at a time for a continuous period of five years.
There are some exceptions to this rule, for example, if you want to study abroad for up to 12 months.
Your EU/EEA/Swiss family members will be able to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme in their own right, if they arrive in the UK on or before 31 December 2020.
If you have any non-EU/EEA/Swiss family members, they will also be able to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme, and get settled or pre-settled status.
Anyone with settled or pre-settled status will be able to live, work and study in the UK, without restrictions.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/argentina:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from South America who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The International Team at RAU is always keen to help and support International students seeking education opportunities in the UK.
At the RAU we offer a variety of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes.
The RAU holds a Student Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3
Standard international tuition fees apply for most of our courses but there are some that may vary.
For more details on standard and non-standard fees visit our undergraduate fee and postgraduate fee pages.
You can also check your chosen course page to see if a non-standard fee applies to your course.
Find the course page by searching our undergraduate course and postgraduate course listings.
The Royal Agricultural University offers a number of scholarships for both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes across a range of subject areas.
In addition to this, a number of external organisations grant awards which may be of interest to RAU applicants.
Please click for details of the funding opportunities available to international students .
Argentinian students applying to study at the RAU can also apply for a BE.CAR Postgraduate Scholarship.
The scheme is fully managed by BEC.AR.
For further details please visit BE.CAR’s website: https://www.argentina.gob.ar/becar/en
Students wishing to pursue an English language programme in the UK prior to commencing their academic programme at the Royal Agricultural University can do so with our partner INTO, based in London .
For further information please contact our admissions team: admissions@rau.ac.uk
Applicants with secondary school qualifications ( Título de Bachiller ) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year (IFP) to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Título de Técnico Superior / Técnico Universitario will be considered for entry to Foundation degree programmes.
Applicants who have completed successfully the 1st year of an Argentinian University degree (Licenciado / Grado / Titulado etc) will be considered for admission to the first year of our undergraduate degree courses.
Applicants with International Baccalaureate, European Baccalaureate, UK or US qualifications:
BSc (Honors) degree programmes: International Baccalaureate minimum 26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications for bachelor degree programmes see relevant RAU web pages .
Foundation degree programmes International Baccalaureate minimum 24 points, A/AS levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications see relevant RAU web pages .
IELTS and other accepted English language qualifications
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses must provide a Secure English language test (i.e.
IELTS SELT).
Please click here for more information on SELT providers .
Transfer into Year 2 or Year 3:
Academic transfers to RAU into Years 2 and 3 are possible.
Contact admissions@rau.ac.uk to find out more.
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree or Licenciado / Titulo/Grado de[  ]
Mature candidates with significant relevant work experience and lower academic qualifications may also be considered for entry, following personal interview with the Director of Research.
Students from Argentina would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.
For further information and guidance visit:
All students intending to study an undergraduate degree in the UK are required to apply through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
To learn more about UCAS, application deadlines and the support we provide to help you make your application see:
You can apply for postgraduate taught and research programmes directly to us via our online application form.
These forms can be found on the relevant postgraduate course pages:
We work with a small number of approved international representatives who can help you apply and enrol on your chosen programme.
Please email us if you would like to contact a country representative: international@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/australia:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from Australia who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The International Team at the RAU is always keen to help and support International students seeking education opportunities in the UK.
The RAU holds a Student Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3
Applicants with High School qualification:
AND OP3 (Overall Positioning) or ATAR as follows:
Alternatively, applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications:
International Baccalaureate minimum 24 points, A-levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications for bachelor degree programmes see relevant RAU web pages.
Bachelor (Honours) degree in a discipline other than Agriculture equivalent to an Upper Second Class Honours (Second Class Division A/One/H2A/H2i) or equivalent.
Applicants with Australian High School qualifications (see above) AND
International Baccalaureate min.
26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications for bachelor degree programmes see relevant RAU web pages.
Australian nationals are expected to have English at Grade C or higher (Year 10 and above).
Alternatively, non-Australian nationals will need to have:
Undergraduate courses:
IELTS band score 6.0 overall or above with no less than 5.5 in each component of the ‘academic’ IELTS test.
The test must have been taken within 2 years of the start date of the course.
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses who are not Majority English Speaking country nationals and require a Student Visa must provide a Secure English Language Test (i.e.
UKVI IELTS ).
Please see more information on SELT providers .
Transfer into Year 2 or Year 3 :
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree:
Applicants who are either:
meet the English language requirements.
Applicants submitting multiple English language qualifications will be assessed based on the most recent qualification.
Students from Australia would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/azerbaijan:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across Central Asia who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The International Team at RAU are always keen to help and support International students seeking education opportunities in the UK.
At the RAU we offer a variety of Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Research programmes.
Students wishing to pursue an English Language programme in the UK prior to commencing their academic programme at the Royal Agricultural University can do so with our partner INTO, based in London .
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Orta Təhsil Haqqında Şəhadətnamə -Certificate of Complete Secondary Education) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Alternatively:
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses must provide a Secure English Language Test ( i.e.
IELTS)
Transfer into Year 2 or Year 3
​ GDA/GCA
UK Bachelor degree in a different discipline than Agriculture equivalent to an Upper Second Class Honours.
Students with Azerbaijani qualifications would require:
Applicants with 4 years Bachelor degree(Bakalavr Diplomu) or Specialist Diploma(Diplomu)
Students who seek entry into the MBA programmes will need to have the equivalent of a UK 2:1 honours degree and minimum 2 years work experience at management level.
Students would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.
Please email us if you would like to contact a country representative: international@rau.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/bangladesh:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across Asia who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (i.e.
Higher Secondary Certificate-HSC/ Intermediate certificate) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed a 2 year Bachelor degree will be considered for entry into Year 1 of the RAU undergraduate programmes:
Applicants with A-levels, EB or USA or other international equiv.
qualifications see relevant RAU course pages.
* Applicants for Foundation degree courses must provide a Secure English Language Test (i.e.
Please see here for more information on SELT providers.
GDA/GCA
Students with Bangladeshi qualifications would require:
CGPA 3.0+ or 60%+ is considered equivalent to a 2:1
Alternatively, students who hold a Bachelor’s degree(from BUET ) 4-5 years in duration will be considered for entry to the MSc programmes.
Students who hold a Bachelor’s degree which was 3-4 years duration followed by a Master’s degree will be considered for entry to the postgraduate taught programmes.
Alternatively, students who hold a Bachelor’s degree(from BUET ) 4-5 years in duration will be considered for entry to the MSc programmes.
Students wo seek entry into the MBA programmes will need to have a the equivalent of a UK 2:1 honours degree and minimum 2 years work experience at management level.
Mature candidates with significant relevant work experience and lower academic qualifications may also be considered for entry, following personal interview with the Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange.
Students from Bangladesh would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/botswana:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across Africa who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The International Team at RAU are always keen to help and support International students seeking education opportunities in the UK
For further information please contact our admissions team: admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Botswana General certificate of Secondary Education) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed successfully the Diploma from the University of Botswana will be considered for admission to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.
Alternatively, applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications will require:
Please see more information on SELT providers.
Foundation Degrees
Masters degree from a Botswana recognised Higher Education Institution or the equivalent of a 2:1 UK Honours degree.
For entry to a PhD programme we would require applicants to hold the equivalent of a UK Masters degree.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/brazil:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Certificado de Conclusão de Ensino Médio) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed successfully the 1st year of a Brazilian University degree (Licenciado/Bacharel) will be considered for admission to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.
International students would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/brunei:
Applicants with the Brunei/GCE A level will be considered for admission to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.
Please see individual course details for A-level requirements.
The equivalent of a 2:1 UK Honours degree from a recognised Higher Education Institution.
Postgraduate Research

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/canada:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from North America who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
All applicants must have Grade 11 Secondary School Diploma (or equivalent) Maths & English pass & one of the following Canadian qualifications to meet the min.
entry requirements:
For courses that require Bachelor Honours degree 2:1 or higher
For courses that require Bachelor Honours degree 2:2
Canadian nationals who have completed a bachelor degree meet the English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/chile:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from Chile who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
Applicants with:
​ Applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications:
Applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications:
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree  or Grado de Licenciado [  ]
Students from Chile would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/china:
英国皇家农业大学（皇农）欢迎来自亚洲各国的留学生来本校接受世界一流教育。皇农国际部团队热衷于帮助和支持国际学生寻求在英国的就读机会。
皇农开设一系列本科，研究生课程和研究项目
皇农的国际学生T4签证赞助许可证号：VT0Q9ERW3
标准国际学生学费适用于大部分专业，但有个别专业略有不同。详细信息请查阅本科 （ www.rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/undergraduate-funding-your-time-at-university ）或研究生 （ www.rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/postgraduate-funding-your-time-at-university ) 学费网页
你也可以查看你所选专业是否是标准国际学费。详情可通过本科和研究生网页的专业列表进行查看
皇家农业大学提供针对本科和研究生的一系列奖学金。同时还有一些校外机构也会提供资助机会。
查询国际学生本科生奖学金详情请访问这里 ( www.rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/scholarships )
Plus 以及
And 和
First Class Honours = 90% or CGPA 3.7.
优秀相当于综合成绩大于90% 或CGPA 3.7
Students from China would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.
来自中国的学生一般需申请签证方可来英国学习。详情请看以下相关链接：
所有申请在英国就读的学生都要求通过UCAS（大学和学院招生服务）系统申请。要了解关于UCAS详情，申请截止日期等，请点击以下链接：
你可以通过网上申请表格直接申请相关的研究生课程和研究项目。相关课程及信息请点击下面链接：
我们与几位被认可的国际代表/代理共同合作帮助学生选择相应的专业。如果你希望和本国代表取得联系，请发邮件至： international@rau.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/colombia:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Bachiller) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed successfully the 1st year of a Colombian University degree (Licenciado/Titulo Profesional) will be considered for admissions to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/cote-d%27ivoire:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across West Africa who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The RAU holds a Student Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3.
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Diplome de Bachelier de l'Enseignement du Second Degre/Baccalaureat de l'Enseignement Secondaire) will need an IFP to be admitted to a Bachelor /Foundation degree programme.
Applicants with a Brevet de Technicien Superieur (BTS) or Diplome Universitaire de Technologie (DUT) may be considered for direct entry to Year 1 of the BSc/FdSc if studies are in a relevant subject area.
AND
Or
Applicants with the following qualifications from a recognised institution would be considered for entry to Postgraduate Taught programmes:
Equivalencies
Applicants with the following qualifications from a recognised institution would be considered for entry to MSc by Research programme:
International students normally require a visa to study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/france:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across Europe who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The International Team at RAU are always keen to help and support International students seeking educational opportunities in the UK.
Min.
overall grade 12 or Mention assez bien in
In relevant subject areas ( e.g.
Agriculture, Equine, Environment etc)
Preferably: Option B for Science based degrees (or where a science subject is required/suggested)  and Option A for other degrees
26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equiv.
qualifications for bachelor degree programmes see relevant RAU web pages.
Foundation degree programmes
Applicants with: Min.
Preferably: Option B for Science based degrees(or where a science subject is required/suggested)  and Option A for other degrees.
24 points, A-levels or USA or other international equiv.
GDA/GCA : Bachelor degree or
In a different discipline than Agriculture equivalent to an Upper Second Class Honours (13 overall min.).
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree or
Min 12.00 overall = UK Lower Second Class Honours 2:2.
13 overall = UK Upper second Class Honours 2:1.
Students from France will now require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/germany:
The RAU holds a Stsudent Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3
For further information please get in touch with our admissions team: admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Applicants with Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur will be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Typically we would ask: for BCC = Overall minimum 3 Befriedigend for CCC = Overall minimum 3.1 - 3.3 for CCD = Overall minimum 3.3 - 3.5 for CD = Overall minimum 3.5 - 3.6
Applicants with Fachgebundene Hochschulreife / Fachhochschulreife in relevant subject areas to the programme of study will be considered for undergraduate study usually in Foundation degree programmes.
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .
Alternatively, International Baccalaureate min.
26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications for Bachelor degree programmes.
Foundation degree programmes:
International Baccalaureate min.24 points, A/AS levels or equivalent international qualifications.
Alternatively, applicants with AS/A levels, IB or US qualifications please see relevant pages.
Hauptschulabschluss (Year 10 results) Realschulabschluss / Mittlere Reife / Mittlerer Schulabschluss / Erweiterter Realschulabschluss / Fachoberschulreife / Sekundarabschluss 1 is considered comparable to GCSE (grades A*-C/9-4) for every subject passed where grades obtained are 1-4.
Typically we accept the following qualifications as equivalent to an Honours degree:
Bachelor / Erste Staatsprüfung (Primarstufe / Sekundarstufe I)  / Fachhochschuldiplom / Diplom (FH) / Zeugnis über den Zweiten Abschnitt der Ärztlichen Prüfung/ For a 2:1 = Min.
2.3 overall For a 2:2 = Min.
3 overall
Magister Artium/Diploma (awarded before 2002) For a 2:1 = Sehr Gut*, Gut For a 2:2 = Befriedigend, Genuegend
Mature candidates with significant relevant work experience and lower academic qualifications may also be considered for entry, following personal interview.
Student from Germany will now require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/ghana:
Contact us for more information: international@rau.ac.uk .
*Please see more information on Secure English Language Test(SELT) providers .
The following qualifications meet the English language requirements for Bachelor degree programmes:
Typically we require a Bachelor's Honours degree
Graduates from NARIC approved Ghanaian universities may be exempted from English language certification.
IELTS (Academic) band score of min.
6.5 overall with no less than 6.0 in Writing and no less than 5.5 in any other component.The test must have been taken within 2 years of the start date of the course
Students from Ghana would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/india:
Contact us for more information: international@rau.ac.uk.
Please click for details of the funding opportunities available to international students .The Royal Agricultural University offers a number of scholarships for both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes across a range of subject areas.
IELTS band score 6.0 overall and no less than 6.0 in each of the components of the ‘academic’ IELTS test.
(The test must have been taken within two years of the start of the course)
Students from India would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/indonesia:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across South-East Asia who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
GDA
Students from Indonesia would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/ireland:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from Ireland who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
If you are an Irish national living in the UK or Ireland, you may be eligible for home fees and funding under the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017 (as amended) (S.I.
2017 No.1189) and the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 (as amended) (S.I.
2007 No.779).
You can check if you meet the requirements for Home Fees.
Please visit the UKCISA and consult the pdf guide ‘English HE – who pays Home Fees’.
Please click for details of the funding opportunities available to international undergraduate students .
Please click for details of the funding opportunities available to international postgraduate students .
​Successful completion of the Leaving Certificate passed at Higher / Honours level with a minimum 3H4+2H3.
Please note that some courses may require higher entry requirements.
Applicants are advised to check the course page, and/or conditions stated in the offer letter.
You can apply for postgraduate taught and research programmes via our online application which can be accessed from the relevant postgraduate course pages.
Our team regularly travels to countries around the world, attending conventions and fairs and visiting schools and colleges.
For further information and to view upcoming trips, visit our events page .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/italy:
Applicants with: Diploma di Esame di Stato will be considered for entry to undergraduate Bachelor degree courses at the RAU.
Where requirements are:
Alternatively: Applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications:
26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equiv.
Applicants with: Diploma di Esame di Stato will be considered for entry to Foundation degree courses at the RAU.
CD = min.
60% overall
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses must provide a Secure English Language Test (i.e.
UKVI IELTS).
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree or Laurea or Diploma di Laurea
Students from Italy will now require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/japan:
PLUS
Students from Japan would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/kazakhstan:
The RAU holds a Student Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3.
Successful completion of Certificate of Completed Secondary Education with pass grades 3 or above in all subjects including 3 or above in Maths
Plus
Students from Kazakhstan would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/kuwait:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across the Middle East who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/malaysia:
3.0/4.0 = Upper Second Class Honours
2.6/4.0 – Lower Second Class Honours
Students from Malaysia would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/mexico:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Bachillerato / Bachiller) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed successfully the 1st year of a Mexican University degree (Licenciado/Titulo Profesional) will be considered for admission to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.
If this was a private institution the programme of study must carry RVOE approval to be considered.
IMPORTANT: Applicants with degrees from private institutions: in addition to the required grade above will only be accepted for programmes that carry the RVOE approval (Reconocimiento de Validez Oficial de Estudios).
IMPORTANT: Applicants with master degrees from private institutions: Master titles will only be accepted for programmes that carry the RVOE approval (Reconocimiento de Validez Oficial de Estudios).

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/nigeria:
* Please see more information on Secure English Language Test(SELT) providers .
Typically, we require an Upper Second Class Honours degree in a non-cognate discipline.
Graduates from NARIC approved Nigerian universities may be exempted from English language certification.
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree
Please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk.
Students from Nigeria would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/norway:
Students wishing to pursue an English Language programme in the UK prior to commencing their academic programme at the Royal Agricultural University can do so with our partner INTO, based in London.
For further information please get in touch with our admissions team: admissions@rau.ac.uk
Applicants with Norwegian Vitnemal – videregaende opplaering – English language grade 4 or above satisfies English language requirements.
qualifications for bachelor degree programmes.
Mature candidates with significant relevant work experience and lower academic qualifications may also be considered for entry, following a personal interview with the Director of Research.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/peru:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications ( Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa ) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year (IFP) to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses must provide a secure English language test (i.e.
Bachelor Honours degree
Students from Peru would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.
We run an International Foundation Year programme in partnership with our partner, INTO London World Education Centre based in London.
To enquire about the programme please get in touch with our admissions team: ​ admissions@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/qatar:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from the Middle East who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/russia:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications ( Аттестат о среднем (полном) общем образовании-Certificate of Secondary (Complete) General Education and  the Свидетельство о результатах ЕГЭ (единого государственного экзамена -Certificate of Unified State Examination) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Applicants who have completed successfully the 1st year of a Russian University degree will be considered for admissions to the first year of our Bachelor degree courses.
Alternatively, Russian applicants with IB, EB, UK or US qualifications will require:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/senegal:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Diplome de Bachelier de l'Enseignement du Second Degre,/Baccalaureat de l'Enseignement Secondaire) will require an IFP to be admitted to a Bachelor/Foundation degree programme.
Students with a Diplome Universitaire d’Etudes Scientifiques (DUES), Diplome Universitaire d’Etudes Litteraires (DUEL), Diplome d’Etudes Universitaire Generales (DEUG) may be considered for direct entry to Year 1 of the BSc/FdSc if studies are in a relevant subject area.
Alternatively, A-levels/BTEC, International Baccalaureate or American qualifications will be considered.
Applicants with a Bachelor degree in a different discipline to Agriculture would be accepted on to the programme:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/singapore:
Applicants with A-levels please see A-level requirements for the course of your choice.
Alternatively, applicants with a Polytechnic Diploma will be considered for entry:
* Applicants for Foundation degree courses must achieve UKVI IELTS band score 6.0 overall or above with no less than 5.5 in each component of the 'academic' IELTS test.
(The test must have been taken within two years of the start of the course).
Applicants with a Bachelor (Honours) degree from:
Applicants with a bachelor degree from:
CAP 4.0 to 4.9 / 2nd upper is equivalent to an Upper Second class Honours.
CAP 3.5 to 3.99 / 2nd lower is equivalent to a Lower Second Class Honours.
Students from Singapore would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/slovakia:
Applicants with Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita or Secondary School Leaving Certificate) will be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Typically:
26 points, A-levels or USA or other international equivalent qualifications for bachelor degree programmes.
Applying for an undergraduate course
Applying for a postgraduate course

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/south-africa:
​South Africa Senior Certificate (with matriculation endorsement) or National Senior Certificate for courses requiring:
Additionally, all applicants for Bachelor degree courses must have English and Maths at min.
Grade C (Standard grade) or E (Higher grade).
Alternatively we accept:
Applicants for Foundation degree courses are expected to additionally have:
IELTS).

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/spain:
Título de Bachiller will be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Typically we would require:
*Applicants for Foundation degree courses who require a Student Visa must provide a Secure English Language Test (i.e.
GDA/GCA : Bachelor degree or:
In a different discipline than Agriculture equivalent to an Upper Class Honours (7 overall min).
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree or
Students from Spain will now require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/thailand:
We consider the below as equivalent to a UK Lower Second Class Honours:
IELTS band score 6.5 overall or above with no less than 5.5 in each component of the 'academic' IELTS test.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/turkey:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from Turkey who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Devlet Lise Diplomasi) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Alternatively,
* Applicants for Foundation degree courses must have UKVI IELTS band score 6.0 overall or above with no less than 5.5 in each component of the 'academic' IELTS test.
Applicants with Lisans Diplomasi / Mühendis Diploması
Yüksek Lisans Diploması (Masters) with min.
CGPA 3.0.
Students from Turkey would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/ukraine:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications (Aтестат) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/uruguay:
Applicants with secondary school qualifications ( Título de Bachillerato ) will need to undertake an International Foundation Year (IFP) to be considered for entry to undergraduate courses at the RAU.
Typically we require a Bachelor’s Honours degree  or Grado Academico de Bachiller / Licenciado / Titulo Professional
Students from Uruguay would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/usa:
Every year the RAU welcomes students from across North America who come to the UK to receive a world-class education.
The RAU holds a Studednt Visa Sponsor License No: VT0Q9ERW3.
Applicants with US qualifications should hold a High School Diploma with a GPA of 3.0 or higher and one of the following (or combinations):
ACT
APs (USA)
AP & SAT (subject) combination (up to 2015)
SATs II (subject)
Associate Degree/Junior/Community College (Year 1 completion)
N.B Applicants who have not met the High School Diploma threshold of GPA 3.0 will be asked to for SAT I (Reasoning test scores).
BSc (Honors) degree programmes : International Baccalaureate min.
Foundation degree programmes: International Baccalaureate min.
24 points, A/AS levels or equivalent international qualifications.
IELTS and other accepted English language qualifications are:
Students from the USA would normally require a visa for studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-students/your-country/zimbabwe:
Applicants with Zimbabwean educational qualifications should have:
Alternatively, we accept:
General Certificate of Education Advanced level (ZIMSEC A-level)
Alternatively
UKVI IELTS)

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/rau-sports-scholarship:
All applications much be received by 6:00pm, 11 June 2025.
All applicants will be informed in writing of the outcome, once a decision has been made and no later than the end of June 2025.
Further to the criteria above:
For further information, please email: scholarships@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/vice-chancellors-scholarship:
These challenges cannot be solved by one country; they require common purpose from experts around the world.
This Scholarship will help enable students to develop their skills at RAU and become part of the future network of global champions.
The Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarship is open to new MSc, PGDip and MBA Postgraduate students starting courses in September 2025.
Please apply using the online application form.
All applicants will be informed in writing of their eligibility no later than two weeks after applying.
Eligible candidates will be shortlisted and selected after they have formally accepted their offer and paid their deposit.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/international-referral-programme:
If you are an alumni or current student our International Referral Programme rewards you with £500 for referring new international students within your network who undertake their studies here at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) and a £500 tuition fee deduction goes to your friend!
Sharing positive experiences within your community helps others to thrive and choose the right path for themselves and their future career.
The purpose of this Programme is to recognise and reward our incredible alumni and current students who share their experiences of studying at the RAU with family, friends or colleagues.
As students and alumni, you are best placed to understand the potential and values of future students, and we in turn value your insight and connections.
Please check the full eligibility criteria in the terms and conditions.
Please see the terms and conditions to check if your referral will be eligible.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/pg-int-accom-offer:
This offer is for international postgraduate students joining in September 2025 who sign up and pay in advance for on-campus accommodation.
You will receive:
To be eligible for the offer you must:
Room preferences will be allocated on a first come, first served basis.
You can have your preferences logged on our system via the online applicants portal with the following information after you have selected us as your firm choice:
*Woodlands 1 is exempt from this offer
Remember, you can only log your accommodation preferences after accepting your offer.
Your application submission will be processed by the Accommodation Team and you will receive your provisional room offer and accommodation contract.
Please read all Terms and Conditions carefully before accepting the offer.
You will also be required to pay a deposit of £300 and set up your Payment plan* in order to fully secure your room.
*International students will need to pay the accommodation fees in full before 1 September 2025.
Applications are dealt with on a first-come first-served basis so to ensure that you get the room of your choice you will need to apply as early as possible.
It is important that you read through the Terms and Conditions of your residence when applying as they form part of your legally binding agreement.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/safs-african-research-grant:
To be eligible for the grant you must:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/commonwealth-shared-scholarship:
The aim of the Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme (CSSS) is to assist students from developing Commonwealth countries who are of excellent academic calibre but for financial reasons would not otherwise be able to afford to study in the United Kingdom.
The scheme allows them to benefit from postgraduate study at a university in the United Kingdom which will help them to contribute toward the development of their home countries.
For RAU applicants awards are for the taught Master's programme MSc Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security only.
Further information can be found on the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission website here.
Postgraduate Taught Master
Two scholarships are available and provide:
To apply for these scholarships, you must:
The CSSS is a shared scholarship between the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) and the Royal Agricultural University (RAU), and selected candidates have to be accepted and approved by both parties, hence the requirement to also complete the CSSS online application form.
The successful and reserve candidates will be selected upon the recommendation of an academic panel and the Scholarship Committee.
This Scholarship is now closed to applications.
You must also apply for the scholarship on Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) portal by the given deadline of 16:00 (GMT) 12 December 2024 .
In order to be considered for an award, you must also have an active admission application (including references) with the RAU by 12 January 2025 .
For information on how to apply for admission to RAU, please see the How to Apply section of our website.
The CSC is unable to accept any applications or documentation not submitted via the online application system.
Successful and reserve nominees selected by RAU can expect to be informed by email in early April 2025.
Final award confirmation should be expected by July 2025, once the CSC completes their criteria checks.
We are unable to inform unsuccessful applicants.
If you do not hear from the RAU Admissions Office by the end of June 2025, please assume your application has been unsuccessful.
For queries relating to an application to Royal Agricultural University please contact: admissions@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/marshal-papworth-scholarship:
The Marshal Papworth Scholarships are created to support postgraduate students from developing countries studying land-based courses in relation to Agriculture.
International students from developing countries who have been offered admission to the following programmes at the Royal Agricultural University can apply for a Marshal Papworth Scholarship.
A list of qualifying countries can be found at marshalpapworth.com .
To be eligible for the scholarship, students must hold an Unconditional firm offer for one of the above programmes.
This is a requirement for consideration of the scholarship application.
The closing date for the Marshal Papworth Scholarship for the Royal Agricultural University was 12 March 2025 .
No further applications will be accepted.
Scholarship funds for September 2025 entry are in total £21,875 (covering £11,875 for tuition fees and £10,000 for living expenses).
A copy of the Marshal Papworth Application Form must be completed and returned to admissions@rau.ac.uk by the deadline above.
Late applications will not be considered.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/global-partners/rau-china-programme:
Below is a list of the China Programme partner Universities and the courses they offer:
The Joint Institute is an exciting new initiative supported by China’s Ministry of Education.
It offers four Double Award undergraduate degrees:
Other lectures teaching on QAU courses are: Dr Obafemi Obajemihi, Lynnete Oimbo, Wallace Currie, Dr Ishwar Pun, Dr Lindah Muzangwa , Amy Lipscombe , Iris Alexandra McCormick , Dr Tosin Lagoke , Andrew Lu , and Dr Stephen Chadd .
Entry to the programmes is for Chinese Nationals only.
All students accepted onto the double degree programmes need to pass the National English Test with a Mark of 100 out of 120.
During year 1 and 2 they will also take the University English Programme and pass the National English Levels 4 and 5.
This will be supplemented by the delivery of English for Academic Purposes module in year 1 and ongoing support in years 2,3 and 4,
In addition to the Double Award programmes, the Joint Institute will offer opportunities to students from RAU to visit and study, for example as part of its annual summer school programme.
Qingdao Agricultural University was founded in 1976 as one of the original 12 Shandong Province Universities.
It started life in 1951 as Laiyang Agricultural School (about 60 miles from Qingdao City), became Laiyang Agricultural College in 1958 and, once it achieved University title, expanded to occupy 4 campuses (Chengyang – main campus, Laiyang Campus, Blue Valley Campus and part of the Jiaozhou Modern Agricultural Science and Technology Demonstration Park).
A new, fifth campus is being built at Pingdu which opens in 2020.
The campuses will eventually cover an area of 860 acres with over 1.1 million square metres of teaching and research building space.
The University owns three small farms in the area which are used for teaching and research.
QAU ranks 345 out of the 700 universities in China and 45 out of 97 for Agriculture.
QAU has eight discipline areas split into 24 Schools or Departments and offers 77 Bachelor programmes including agriculture, forestry, food science, economics, engineering, law, veterinary medicine, foreign languages and some media and fine arts degrees.
It also offers 73 Masters programmes in similar subjects.
Altogether there are 40,000 students and 1494 full time lecturers giving a full time staff:student ratio of approximately 1:27.
For more information, see https://en.qau.edu.cn/
Here is a report of RAU’s visit to QAU.
Shandong Agricultural University (SDAU), situated at the foot of the magnificent Mount Tai, was founded in Jinan in 1906 with the original name of Shandong Higher Agricultural School.
It was renamed Shandong Agricultural University in 1983.
It consists of 21 colleges and offers 96 undergraduate programmes.
Currently SDAU has an enrolment of 34,529 full-time students, including 29,936 undergraduate students and 4,655 master and doctoral students.
In addition, there are 80 on-the-job students pursuing master’s degrees and 18,592 students in continuing education.
It has a total of 2,483 faculty and staff members, among whom there are 1,122 professors and associate professors.
SDAU has one academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and three academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.The RAU has been working with SDAU for almost 20 years, as part of a co-education programme involving two SDAU single undergraduate degrees:
Graduates from these programmes gain a degree from SDAU and a Certificate of Completion from RAU.
However in 2021, supported by China’s Ministry of Education, the Real Estate programme was upgraded from a SDAU single degree programme to a double degree programme, which means graduates from this programme gain one degree from SDAU and one degree (Hons) from RAU.
You can view the programme specification for the BSc (Hons) Real Estate here .
Graduates often progress to Masters degrees, either in China or internationally, and then typically into Chinese Government departments or international business careers.
Having studied degrees in English and Chinese, these graduates have a wide range of career options.
For more details, visit Shandong Agricultural University
The RAU operates a “3 + 1” cooperative education scheme with the Beijing University of Agriculture for their Agriculture and Food programmes.
This means that students undertake the first three years of their programme at BUA, in Chinese, and then complete their fourth year, in English, at RAU.
Students who successfully complete the programme gain a Chinese degree that recognises their year of study at RAU.
For more details, visit Beijing University of Agriculture .
The RAU runs a "3 + 1" scheme with Agriculture, Food and Business and Rural Land Management programmes.
For more details, visit Northwest A & F University .
In addition to the formal partnerships, RAU has student exchange programmes with the following universities, all of which are happy to welcome RAU students to their campuses:
Programmes in agriculture and related subjects
For more details, visit Henan Agricultural University .
Programmes in international business
For more details, visit Wuhan Business University
Programmes in ecology, conservation and environmental engineering
For more details, visit Zhengzhou University of Light Industry

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/global-partners/rau-in-uzbekistan:
Opened in 2022 IAU is one of 20 new autonomous universities being developed in Uzbekistan to ensure Uzbek students have access to international-quality education that will enable them to contribute to the economic, social and cultural development of Uzbekistan.
The selection of agriculture for one of the first of these new universities reflects the significance of the sector, both within Uzbekistan and globally.
Initially the programmes will be three and four year undergraduate Agriculture degrees, with plans for expanding the undergraduate offer to include agricultural technology and agri-food business programmes in future years.
The grand opening ceremony was attended by Uzbekistan’s Deputy Prime Minister Jamshid Khodjaev, Minister of Agriculture Aziz Voitov, as well as RAU Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter McCaffery and Dr Munira Aminova, Acting Rector of IAU.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/global-partners/rau-in-the-uae:
His Highness Sheikh Dr Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, ruler of the Emirate of Sharjah in the UAE and President of the University of Al Dhaid, has signed a collaborative agreement with the Royal Agricultural University.
This agreement entails joint efforts in developing a Bachelor’s programme in Sustainable Agriculture and engaging in innovative research initiatives related to agriculture at the newly created University of Al Dhaid.
The University is a non-profit institution in the Arab region specialising in agriculture, environment, food, and livestock, and includes a wheat, vegetable and dairy farm, as well as a seed bank and laboratories.
The collaboration will extend to faculty and student exchange programmes for training and skills development, and sharing of knowledge.
His Highness expressed gratitude towards the RAU for its continuous support, which will greatly contribute to the University of Al Dhaid’s education and research progress in the agricultural domain.
He praised the esteemed reputation of the RAU globally and acknowledged its extensive experience, making it both an intellectual and practical leader in the field.
The RAU was chosen as a partner because of its ability to bridge theory with practice and promote innovation, contributing to addressing global challenges in food and environmental security.
The University of Al Dhaid’s Sustainable Agriculture degree programme has been developed from existing RAU programmes with a focus on the food security needs of the region and an emphasis on identifying and advancing technological solutions to the key challenges of climate change and sustainable crop and livestock development.
Professor Peter McCaffery, Vice-Chancellor of the RAU, said: “A desert setting is a formidable environment in which to produce food and maintain animal health.
We are delighted to be working with the Government of Sharjah in a unique collaboration that will enhance food security and animal welfare as the region responds to climate change.”

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/global-partners/rau-twinning-snau:
RAU researchers, who have been working with colleagues at Sumy National Agrarian University in Ukraine to study heavy metal pollution in Ukrainian farmland caused by Russian bombs since the Russian invasion in March 2022.
Their results were shared at the annual meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco in 2023.
Professor Nicola Cannon, Professor in Agriculture at the RAU, said: “Initially understanding the contamination helps to avoid spreading contaminated soil across a wider area which could have devastating effects for future productivity and food safety.
“The plan is to test bomb craters of different shapes and sizes left by weapons over the whole of Ukraine to evaluate them for contaminates and particularly for heavy metals which could have serious environmental consequences and devastating impacts on human health if transferred into the food chain.”
Academics and researchers at the RAU have been working with colleagues at Sumy National Agricultural University (SNAU) in Ukraine since the Russian invasion in March 2022 and one of their SNAU colleagues Associate Professor Olena Melnyk, who is now based at ETH Zurich, a public research university in Switzerland, is leading the project.
A sampling protocol for evaluating the craters was developed by RAU staff and tested, with Ukrainian colleagues, on Salisbury Plain.
The soil samples are then analysed using specialist equipment from the RAU’s Cirencester campus.
Olena said: “We are so grateful for all the support we are receiving.
In conjunction with the RAU and The Conflict and Environment Observatory (CEOBS) we have been able to deliver a month-long training programme to teach trainers, in Ukraine itself, the protocols and skills required for sampling the craters and analysing the soil.
“These trainers will in turn teach others to reach our ambition of sampling all the bomb craters to avoid further damage to our country.
This will also help us to map the contaminated farmlands of Ukraine and develop a comprehensive strategy to revitalise Ukrainian agriculture and to build back better.”
Work is also taking place on the ground in Ukraine where researchers have initially evaluated 28 craters in three previously occupied regions in north and north-eastern Ukraine.
Analysis of the soil in some of these craters showed elevated levels of a dangerous range of heavy metals including lead, copper, nickel, and antinomy.
Nicola added: “The farmers in Ukraine are remarkably robust and, where possible, they have continued to farm which has, in turn, helped to keep food supplied to the Ukrainian population.
“However, these farmers cannot afford to wait until the end of the war to correct land which has been damaged and contaminated by bombs.
They need immediate, and ongoing, help to know what parts of their land are safe, and unsafe, to use for crops.”

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/RAUSummerSchool-2026:
Are you interested in studying in the UK and experiencing British university life firsthand?
The Royal Agricultural University (RAU) is delighted to launch its new Residential Summer School , a two-week programme hosted at our historic Cirencester campus, in the heart of the beautiful Cotswolds.
This immersive programme offers the perfect opportunity to expand your academic horizons, explore future study options, and connect with like-minded students from around the world.
The programme includes a shared core of cultural and academic activities with three specialist subject routes to choose from:
Equine Science and Industry
Agriculture and Food Systems
Land, Property and Conservation
All routes include additional shared activities and excursions including a group visit to Diddly Squat Farm Shop in Chipping Norton, offering a modern and media-influenced perspective on rural enterprise, food retail, and British farming culture.
Location : Based in Cirencester, at the heart of the Cotswolds – one of England’s most picturesque and historic regions.
History : Founded in 1845 and granted a Royal Charter by Queen Victoria, RAU combines rich heritage with forward-thinking academic innovation.
Read more about our rich heritage.
Community : Experience life on a traditional UK campus while building global friendships in a warm, supportive environment.
This route will feature a masterclass in horse brain dissection, an interactive session in equine anatomy and physiology, and visits to active training yards.
Additional trips will also include visiting Cheltenham Racecourse, Royal Mews in London and an additional Equine event to be confirmed.
This pathway links with our Graduate Diploma in Equine * and our MSc by Research.
This route will include a regenerative farming field lab, an agri-tech demonstration experience, and a visit to a working dairy or arable operation.
Additional trips will also include a visit to a commercial farm, a food processing site tour and attendance at a rural event, such as the Cotswold Show.
This pathway links with a number of our Agriculture masters programmes, such as MSc Agricultural Technology and Innovation , MSc Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security and MSc Agroecology.
This route will include a practical conservation workshop, guided tours of Cotswold estates, and sessions on sustainable land and property management.
Additional trips will also include a visit to Royal Mews in London.
This pathway links with our Land & Property courses, including MSc Real Estate , MSc Rural Estate Management and MSc by Research.
The Cotswolds is a picturesque region in south-central England, known for its rolling hills, charming stone villages, and idyllic countryside.
Designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, it offers a quintessentially English experience with historic market towns, cozy pubs, and scenic walking trails.
The honey-colored limestone buildings and timeless atmosphere make the Cotswolds a favorite destination for visitors seeking tranquility and rural charm.
There will also be a range of optional social events such as a quiz night, pub visit, and a trip to Cirencester Parish Church on the Sunday.
The full cost of the two-week programme is £5,500.
Applicants from RAU partner institutions will receive priority consideration and a 20% discount on fees.
Eligibility for this offer will be assessed during the application process.
* Graduate Diploma in Equine launching soon, for 2026 entry - subject to validation
Academic Enrichment: Learn from world-class academics and access resources that may not be available at your home institution.
Global Perspective: Study alongside students from around the world, gaining cross-cultural insights and building international friendships.
Career Boost: Enhance your CV with international experience and new skills that employers value—such as adaptability, communication, and independence.
Personal Growth: Experience life in a different country, step out of your comfort zone, and build confidence through travel and new challenges.
Networking Opportunities: Connect with peers, academics, and professionals from diverse backgrounds, potentially opening doors for future academic or career opportunities.
Exploration and Fun: Enjoy cultural excursions, explore iconic British landmarks, and immerse yourself in a new environment while still making academic progress.
In short, it’s a valuable blend of education, cultural exchange, and unforgettable experience.
Applications will close on 1 March 2026, or earlier if all places are filled.
Apply now to avoid disappointment.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/RAUSummerSchool-Roman-Britain:
Are you interested in studying in the UK and experiencing British university life first-hand?
The Summer school will appeal to those who want to experience the wealth of Roman remains, gain insights into archaeology, and to understand the links between history, literature and archaeological evidence.
No prior experience is needed, apart from a desire to learn about this fascinating period of our history.
Cirencester – Roman Corinium – was the capital of Britannia Prima, the western province of Britain, and by 4th century, one of the wealthiest regions of the empire.
The Summer school will trace the growth and decline of Roman Britain into the so called ‘Dark Ages’, the Age of Arthur, where mythologies were created and then reimagined during the Middle Ages.
This course will appeal to anyone who is interested in late Roman Britain, the early medieval period, and the historical origins of the Arthurian myths.
We will be located in Cirencester, with its remains and museum collection, and visit the many Roman and Dark Age sites in the region – to include villas with their mosaics, fortresses and walled towns, Roman Bath, as well as more mysterious locations, like hermits caves, inscribed stones and re-occupied Celtic hillforts.
A unique feature will be the opportunity to participate in a research excavation of a 4th-5th century temple complex with a voluntary ‘add on’ of a further week, at low cost, where it will be possible to gain more substantial archaeological experience.
The two-week programme itinerary will comprise:
Themed trips exploring connections between Roman archaeology and the Arthurian myth.
Visits will include Roman Cirencester, Chedworth and Great Witcombe Roman Villas, Caerleon and Caerwent, Roman Bath, Monmouth and the ancient kingdom of Ergyng.
A visit to the Corinium museum in Cirencester.
Followed by evening lectures.
A five-day archaeological dig of Roman temples near to Littledean, Forest of Dean, one hour from Cirencester.
You will learn excavation methods, finds processing, digital recording and site interpretation.
The evening lectures will be given by Royal Agricultural University (RAU) and guest experts on Roman Britain and the Arthurian myth in archaeology and culture.
This week is optional and focuses on fieldwork and gaining practical experience.
If you attend all three weeks you will accrue academic credits.
The cost of this extra week will be for accommodation only (cost to be confirmed).
The Summer School will be led by world-renowned archaeologist, television presenter and author, Mark Horton, Professor of Archaeology and Pro Vice-Chancellor at the RAU, and an expert on Roman and post Roman Britain.
The cost of the optional extra week will be for accommodation only (cost to be confirmed).
We welcome applicants from a range of backgrounds.
If you are unsure about your eligibility or require more information, please contact us at summer.schools@rau.ac.uk.
Academic enrichment: Learn from world-class academics and access resources that may not be available at your home institution.
Global perspective: Study alongside students from around the world, gaining cross-cultural insights and building international friendships.
Personal growth: Experience life in a different country, step out of your comfort zone, and build confidence through travel and new challenges.
Networking opportunities: Connect with peers, academics, and professionals from diverse backgrounds, potentially opening doors for future academic or career opportunities.
Exploration and fun: Enjoy cultural excursions, explore iconic British landmarks, and immerse yourself in a new environment while still making academic progress.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/farm491:
As a Farm491 member, you will gain access to:
*If you are a registered or trading business in Gloucestershire, you will also have access to Growth Hub Cirencester events .
Farm491 offers exclusive, fully funded memberships for current students and alumni of the RAU with a registered or trading business.*
This includes:
*It offers Alumni Membership to Alumni who have graduated in the last 12 months from the RAU only.
It is at the discretion of Farm491 to accept Student Membership applications from current students of the RAU without a registered or trading business (for example, those with businesses close to launching).
The Alliston Centre Stroud Road Gloucestershire GL7 6JR
Follow us on X: @Farm491
Follow us on Instagram: @farm491rau
Follow us on LinkedIn: Farm491
Contact Farm491

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/the-growth-hub-cirencester:
Located in the stunning grounds of The Royal Agricultural University at The Alliston Centre, The Growth Hub Cirencester is the perfect place to get business support, work, and meet like-minded business professionals in a relaxed atmosphere.
The Growth Hub Cirencester is delighted to offer RAU students free membership, allowing them to:
RAU alumni receive 25% discount on membership and all other paid services for 12 months after graduation.
Visit our website to explore our services and get in touch with us.
We are also on socials.
Follow us on Instagram , Facebook and LinkedIn .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/forms/continuing-professional-development-enquiry-form:
Please fill in and submit the form below.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/appliedsciencestrategies:
Delegates will learn how to:
These learning outcomes align with key gaps frequently identified in FE College Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs), Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), and Ofsted reports.
We offer our course face-to-face on our RAU campus at Cirencester over one day.
We adopt a blended learning approach, combining lecture-delivered theory and demonstrations by course leaders, with supervised, practical activities, to promote understanding of and engagement with course content amongst delegates.
Course sessions are delivered by members of our academic teaching and research staff and our professional services team, including members of staff from our Laboratories and Research Services and Teaching & Learning Support teams.
To register interest or for further information, please get in touch via our c ontinuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
We will be running our next courses in February 2026 , April 2026 and July 2026 .
Dates to be confirmed.
Run over one day, the course is £350 + VAT.
We can also arrange bespoke courses to suit you or your organisation's requirements on request.
Please scroll down for course content.
To book a place or discuss the course further, please get in touch via our continuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
It was a great day not only for learning new skills that I can bring into the classroom but also for increasing my confidence in applying practical science and research into learning.
The team was fantastic and really did their utmost to support and welcome us through the day.
Delegate, July 2025

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/insighttoagriculture:
Delegates will gain a comprehensive understanding and appreciation of the complexities and nuances of the agricultural and land-based sectors, enabling them to more effectively perform their professional roles.
We offer our course face-to-face (residentially) and also online (live delivery including a virtual farm visit).
A hybrid of face-to-face and online delivery is also available.
We adopt a blended learning approach, combining lecture-delivered theory with discussion of real-life examples and farm visits (physically or remotely), to promote understanding of and engagement with course content amongst delegates.
Since 1983, Tom Overbury has lectured within the School of Agriculture at the RAU, including as a Principal Lecturer.
He has previously managed the University’s mixed farms and when not lecturing, runs his own 150-hectare beef and arable farm.
He has extensive research experience in the design and development of various machines and systems for scrub and weed control on conservation grazing sites and is a member of the Institute of Agricultural Engineers (IAgr.E), vice-chairing the Western Branch.
To book a place or discuss your specific requirements further, please get in touch via our c ontinuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
Our next open course date is:
The course will take place between 9.00 am and 1.00 pm, online, over the two mornings.
Scroll down for course content.
To book a place or discuss your specific requirements further, please get in touch via our continuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
"I dare say you are an expert in your field, but do you know what is happening in agriculture generally?
We will be looking at land and crop values, what is happening in all the various agricultural enterprises and industries, gross margins, as well as policies and the future of farming."
Tom Overbury
The farming year
Agricultural update and topical issues
Farm physical and financial performance
Agricultural policy and legislation and farm assurance
Arable farming and horticulture
Livestock (dairy, beef and sheep)
Farm visit
Woodland and forestry management - commercial issues
Pigs and poultry
Farm diversification
Ag-environment and farm support
Land and property values
Challenges and opportunities in the agricultural industry
Farm business structure and profitability
Agricultural legislation and policies and CAP history
Agricultural issues and challenges
Agri-environmental schemes and the Sustainable Farming Incentive
Subsidies and grants
Woodland and forestry management
Grassland management
Farm business tenancies – grazing licences
Health and safety
Sustainable Farming Incentive
Managing historic features in grassland
Sites of Special Scientific Interest

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/farmerfriendlyfinance:
Farmers keen to:
Delegates will learn:
We offer the course face-to-face on our RAU campus at Cirencester over three days between October and February.
We combine practical exercises with the delivery of jargon-free theory to promote understanding of and engagement with course content amongst delegates.
The course is delivered by Abby Cook, a farm business consultant, agricultural training deliverer and farmer based in Gloucestershire.
Abby's areas of expertise include financial and budget management, business strategy and long-term planning, policy and procedure, and succession and transition strategy.
With fifteen years of experience as a consultant, combined with her practical farming skills, Abby brings a wealth of experience, delivered in a farmer-friendly, jargon-free way to breakdown the barriers to farmers taking control of their farm business confidently.
Our modules dates are:
Book now on our Online Shop here.
Please scroll down to view module content for each date.
All prices include lunch.
When you book all three finance modules together, you will receive a reduced booking cost of £1300.
Located in the heart of the Cotswolds – Cirencester - we offer comfortable accommodation, with free on-site parking and sustainable catering using local suppliers.
If you have any queries, please get in touch via our c ontinuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
"Feeling confident on the technical side of farming, but lacking confidence on the finance side of farming?
We are going to cover the basics, from gross margin, cash flow and how to construct them, right up to more complicated tasks like debt level management, risk management and also putting business plans and tenancy applications together."
Abby Cook
practical session on how to construct simple gross margin, profit and loss, and balance sheet
practical session on constructing a cashflow and once constructed how can this be used by the business
TBD

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/jetmanagementdevelopmentscheme:
The Trust offers, through its biennial Management Development Training Scheme, a unique opportunity for people in farming and land-based industries to develop their leadership and management skills.
Scholars participate in a three-week residential during which all aspects of rural business management are covered.
The 2025/2026 course features:
Practical case studies and seminars, led by industry professionals, include:
The deadline for applications for the 2025-2026 Scheme was 25 May 2025.
For more information, please get in touch via our continuing professional development enquiry form.
Application closing date - 25 May 2025 Interview date - 26 June 2025, RAU Cirencester.
Module 1 - 1- 5 December 2025, RAU Cirencester Module 2 - 12 - 15 January 2026, RAU Cirencester Module 3 - 2 - 5 February 2026, Wallops Wood, Hampshire
Chris Padfield, the Scheme leader, runs a 400-hectare family farm on the Gloucestershire-Worcestershire border.
He has a background in agricultural education having worked at Hartpury College and the RAU before setting up a training company.
Chris completed a Nuffield Scholarship on farm staff training in 2015.
Chris is assisted in tutoring the course by Dr James Jones, who has run the course since 2002, and others, including JET alumni.
A range of academics, professionals and leaders from inside and outside the industry also contribute to the training.
The John Edgar Trust has set the following application criterion for the Scheme:
As such, most but not all of the successful past applicants to the Scheme have been in their mid-twenties to late thirties.
The Scheme is sponsored by the Trust, but scholars are asked to make a contribution of £500 towards the cost of the course.
This represents a small proportion of the total costs.
Bursaries are available at the discretion of the Trustees for individuals who might be unable to pay this charge.
Participants may be asked to contribute to expenses for some of the ancillary activities and are asked to support the aims and activities of the Trust in the future.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/mbaessentials:
Anyone wishing to develop their leadership skills who doesn't have the time to study for a full MBA.
This course allows you to study one module from the full MBA course over the duration of one semester alongside any other commitments you may have.
You simply select the module that you wish to study from those shown below.
This module will be taught by Ian Evans on Fridays from 1:00pm - 4:00pm on our RAU campus at Cirencester.
The course runs from Friday 3 October 2025 - Friday 16 January 2026.
In today’s complex and rapidly changing world, leaders must act responsibly and build successful businesses without causing harm to stakeholders or the environment.
This module aims to develop a critical appreciation of how responsible leaders can draw upon personal attributes and emerging leadership theories—particularly those grounded in current equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) principles and legislation.
Students will explore tools such as personality and team-based assessments (e.g.
Belbin, Myers-Briggs) and learn how to adapt their communication styles to meet the needs of staff, hierarchy, and clients.
The module examines leadership from individual, team, and organisational perspectives.
It encourages students to reflect on and strengthen their own leadership capabilities and consider what it means to lead others responsibly.
Particular emphasis will be placed on the application of leadership knowledge to successful project management and the facilitation of organisational change.
Key themes include thought leadership, motivation, flexibility, and resilience.
The module will also explore how advanced communication and facilitation skills contribute to organisational effectiveness and support both individual and team resilience.
Facilitation techniques will cover working within teams, supporting innovation, promoting active participation, drawing on professional expertise, and leveraging appropriate resources.
At the end of this module you'll be able to:
This module is led by Dr Tosin Lagoke on Fridays from 9:00am - 12:00pm on our RAU campus at Cirencester.
In an increasingly complex and competitive global environment, managers are under growing pressure to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to make, interpret, and implement strategic decisions effectively.
This module offers a dynamic exploration of Sustainable Strategies for Business Excellence, with a strong emphasis on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and the integration of employability, entrepreneurship, and enterprise education.
Students will engage in a comprehensive analysis of how organisations can embed sustainability into their core strategies, promote inclusivity, and foster employability through entrepreneurial thinking.
The module equips students with the analytical tools and frameworks necessary for effective strategic decision-making in rapidly evolving business contexts.
Core topics include environmental and competitive analysis, the identification of organisational strengths and weaknesses, and the development and implementation of sustainable competitive strategies.
The curriculum also addresses key areas such as:
Real-world case studies and guest lectures from industry professionals will provide practical insights into the creation and execution of sustainable strategies that promote business excellence, resilience, and long-term success.
This module adopts a flipped classroom approach, combining online directed learning via the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) with interactive in-person sessions.
Students are expected to engage with a range of preparatory materials prior to each class, including readings, demonstrations, videos, websites, lecture notes, and short recordings.
These resources are designed to support independent learning and ensure students are well-prepared for classroom activities.
Each week, students will participate in a three-hour session focused on active and collaborative learning.
These sessions incorporate interactive teaching methods such as class discussions, role plays, reflective exercises, case-based learning, and group presentations.
Detailed guidance on session content is provided in advance to support student preparation and post-session reflection.
Teaching is problem-based, encouraging students to work collaboratively to develop innovative and practical solutions to real-world national and global challenges.
A strong emphasis is placed on peer-to-peer learning, critical thinking, and the application of theoretical knowledge to contemporary issues.
*If you complete an assessment at the end of the module you can obtain 15 credits, per module, towards a full MBA.
Alternatively, if you choose not to complete the assessment you will not obtain any credits
An Undergraduate Honours Degree (2:2 or above) from a UK university or overseas equivalent, or a professional qualification and/or experience considered to be equivalent to the above.
For information on international qualifications, please, see our country specific pages.
For countries not listed please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk.
Our module dates are:
You will have the option to study without completing the assessment or, if you prefer, you can complete the assessment and gain credits towards the full MBA course.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/oldhousetoecohouse:
A series of three standalone one-day courses, with a reduced rate for anyone booking onto all three.
A more condensed two-day intensive version is planned for the new year with accommodation at our Cirencester campus.
We offer the three standalone courses face-to-face on our RAU campus at Swindon, each over one day.
We adopt a blended learning approach, combining lecture-delivered theory with discussion of real-life case studies, to promote understanding of and engagement with course content amongst delegates.
If you would prefer to undertake all three courses over two consecutive days, we plan to run a two-day intensive in winter 2025-2026, delivered in-person at our Cirencester campus.
The courses are designed by Marianne Suhr, Chartered Building Surveyor and co author of the Old House Eco Handbook.
She will be lecturing alongside a host of nationally-recognised experts in retrofit and conservation, including Nick Heath, Bob Prewett and James Ayres who will bring real life case studies to illustrate a practical approach to decision making.
Our course dates are:
Retrofitting Floors, Walls and Roofs – 15 October 2025 , £150 + VAT, Swindon campus
Retrofitting Historic Windows – 12 November 2025 , £150 + VAT, Swindon campus
Installing Renewables in Historic Buildings – 10 December 2025 , £150 + VAT, Swindon campus
Two-Day Winter Intensive – Date TBC but January/February 2026 , Price TBC, Cirencester campus
For those who would prefer to undertake all three courses over two consecutive days.
All course prices include refreshments and a buffet lunch.
A reduced price of £390 + VAT is available to anyone booking all three standalone dates.
The Cultural Heritage Institute at our Swindon campus is a 5-minute walk from Swindon Train Station.
For those travelling by car, parking is available at the Bristol Street Carpark (6 Bristol Street, Swindon) at a cost of £10.70 for the day.
Located in the heart of the Cotswolds - we offer comfortable accommodation at our Cirencester campus, with free on-site parking and sustainable catering using local suppliers.
Find out more about our accommodation and book here.
Please scroll down to view course content for each date.
This course focuses on the scientific and practical aspects of insulating solid walls, floors, and roofs in older buildings.
9.00 am
Registration and coffee
9.20 am
Welcome
9.30 am
Basic building physics
Speaker: Nick Heath, NDM Heath
11.00 am
Questions and discussion
11.30 am
Break
11.45 am
Insulating walls - the options
Practical installation of IWI and EWI and insulating renders
Speaker: James Ayres, Lime Green
12.30 pm
Insulating timber framed buildings
Speaker: Marianne Suhr, Old House Consultancy
1.15 pm
1.30 pm
Lunch
2.15 pm
Roof insulation
Insulating from above, insulating from below, bats, membranes and solar gain
Speaker: Bob Prewett, Prewett Bizley Architects
2.45 pm
Insulating floors
Laying limecrete floors and insulating suspended timber floors
3.30 pm
3.45 pm
4.00 pm
Case study: Retrofitting a Victorian Terrace House
4.30 pm
Case study: TBC
5.00 pm
Discussion
5.30 pm
End of course
Please note, this course schedule may be subject to change.
This course focuses on upgrading and repairing historic window assemblies while preserving character and ensuring energy efficiency.
Old windows - why bother?
10.00 am
Window repair
10.30 am
Assessing significance and justifying change
Speaker: Laura Millbourn, Period Home Projects
11.15 am
Old windows and the science of heat transfer
Secondary glazing systems - showcase by manufacturers
12.45 pm
Questions
1.00 pm
Lunch and product display
1.45 pm
Tailoring solutions based on use
Upgrading old windows with replacement panes
3.00 pm
3.15 pm
Detailing new windows in historic buildings
Specifying glass for new windows
4.15 pm
Case studies: alternative approaches
This course focuses on how renewable energy technologies can be incorporated into older properties.
Climate change and the challenge of space and water heating
Speaker: TBC
9.45 am
The science of space heating
Thermal mass, conduction, convection, radiation, heat loss calculations, radiators v UFH
Adopting a fabric first approach
Heat pumps and older buildings
Ground, water and air source
Speaker: Dan McNaughton, Historic England
12.00 pm
Biomass, wood burning stoves and real fires
Old buildings and overheating
Solar panels and historic settings
Solar thermal and PV
Speaker: Chris Worboys, Etude
Infra red heaters
Insights from The National Trust
Speaker: Jo Lugg, The National Trust
Case Study 1: Athelhampton House
Speaker: Stefan Pitman, SPASE
Case Study 2: Victorian Terrace
5.15 pm
Please note, this course schedule may be subject to change
Course content from the above standalone courses will be covered over two consecutive days.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/lantrabasictree:
You will receive a Certificate of Attendance from Lantra on successful completion of the course.
Lantra is one of the leading awarding bodies for land-based industries in both the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We offer the course face-to-face on our RAU campus at Cirencester over one day.
The course is practical focused, incorporating practical exercises with discussion of case studies and local tree surveys.
The course is delivered by Paul McBride, independent trainer and assessor and arborist at Gloucestershire-based tree service providers Tree Maintenance Ltd.
Our course date is:
There will be three further dates between October and December 2025, which we will be confirming shortly.
Book now on our online shop here.
A 20% discount is available for RAU students.
Please scroll down to view the course content.
8.30 am
Registration
Presentation
10.45 am
Tree height measurements
practical session
Visual tree assessment (VTA) walk
survey sheet completion practical session with open discussion
2.00 pm
with short questionnaire and open discussion

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/workingwithwoodlands:
Delegates will:
All delegates, on attendance, will receive a Certificate of Attendance.
We offer our course face-to-face over one day.
Our woodland site for the day is to be confirmed.
Course sessions are delivered by Edward Bonn, Farm Environment Adviser at FWAG South West , supported by Rachel Wheatley, Head Grower at FWAGs GREAT Market Garden Project at the RAU.
To book a place or for further information, please get in touch via our c ontinuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
Our next open course dates are:
Arrival and welcome
Includes safety briefing and refreshments
Coppicing for woodland restoration
Practical session
Charcoal and biochar production, with mobile milling demonstration
Lunch break
Crafting stakes, binders and hurdles
Enterprise opportunities

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/cpd/wayleaveofficertraining:
We offer two levels of the course – Foundation and Intermediate – with Advanced level, featuring bespoke content, available on request.
Our Foundation level is suitable for delegates with little previous experience of wayleaves and our Intermediate level is suitable for delegates seeking to enhance their existing knowledge and experience relating to wayleaves.
Delegates, with prior experience or without, will enhance their understanding and competency in dealing with wayleave issues and developing working relationships with clients and other stakeholders, enabling them to fulfil their job role efficiently and effectively.
Tom is supported by external speakers in the delivery of all courses, which includes professional land and estate agents such as Stuart Milsom of Moore Allen & Innocent LLP.
Stuart Milsom is Head of Agriculture at leading local land and estate agency firm Moore Allen & Innocent LLP.
Stuart has extensive experience in representing clients against various utility companies when they require access to private land, either under statutory powers or by negotiation, which informs his delivery of course content and the real-life examples discussed.
If you have any queries or are interested in bespoke, closed courses for your organisation, please get in touch via our continuing professional development enquiry form or call +44 (0) 1285 652531 .
"I am sure you know all about your area, such as electrical supply and distribution, but maybe not so much about agriculture and agricultural values.
Supported by land agent, Stuart Milsom, we look at land values, disturbance claims, and much more."

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/research-and-consultancy:
Our consultancy services gives you access to top class academics who are all experts in their field and equipped with the latest academic knowledge and practical understanding of agricultural, equine and rural business.
Their work is supported by a dedicated consultancy team as well as a network of trusted associates.
Our key areas integrate our most popular services and highlight ways in which we can help you.
If the area you are interested in is not featured, please contact us to discuss your requirements further.
Our consultancy services key areas of work include:
Dr Esther Wilkinson

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/research-and-consultancy/our-clients:
A selection of our clients include:
“The RAU's expertise in global agricultural industry, their professionalism and flexibility were second to none.”
Henry Pitman, African Century.
“We are very happy with the professional and supportive approach that the RAU provide”
Rob Hooper; Technical Manager, Mack Multiples.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/venue-hire/conferences-and-events:
We offer a selection of rooms, including the impressive 16th-century Bathurst Wing, the Kenneth Russell Room, and Boutflour Hall, available year-round.
Plus, our campus is home to The Growth Hub Cirencester and Farm 491 at The Alliston Centre, hubs of innovation that provide access to modern facilities and entrepreneurial support in agri-tech and sustainable industries.
With these unique spaces and resources, we are ready to help you create a truly memorable and inspiring event.
Offers versatility, comfortably accommodating up to 230 guests in theatre-style seating.
With a generously sized stage and comprehensive AV equipment included, we provide everything you need for a seamless event experience.
Step into the timeless allure of the Tithe Barn at the RAU, Cirencester.
This historic marvel, steeped in centuries of agricultural significance, stands as a testament to the region's rich heritage.
Experience the charm of RAU's chapel, perfect for weddings, events, and musical performances, surrounded by serene ambiance.
Nestled within the original 16th-century farmhouse, The Bathurst Lounge exudes timeless charm and can accommodate up to 40 guests in theatre-style seating.
Perched on the first floor of our main building, this space boasts seating for up to 120 guests and features its own dedicated bar.
Whether you are hosting a conference, reception, or celebration, our venue provides the ideal blend of elegance and convenience to elevate your event.
An oak-panelled room that can seat up to 60 guests theatre style.
Amidst its historic setting and picturesque surroundings, our grand dining room sets the stage for memorable banquets and celebrations.
With seating for up to 130 guests, including space for a majestic banquet and a charming ambiance, your event will be truly unforgettable.
Experience the allure of our beautiful venue as you dine and celebrate in style.
Seminar rooms offer an intimate setting, perfect for meetings and discussions.
Make a conference or event enquiry via our online form

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/venue-hire/alliston-centre:
It is a bright, light filled contemporary space with modern fenestration, boasting stunning views across our fields.
Up to 6 people
Up to 10 people
Up to 14 people
Up to 50 people
All meeting rooms include unlimited tea and speciality bean-to-cup coffee, and event teas and coffees in the event space.
All our meeting rooms can be booked via The Growth Hub Cirencester website .
For all event space bookings, contact The Growth Hub Cirencester team at cirencester@thegrowthhub.biz .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/venue-hire/weddings:
The perfect venue for your wedding in the Cotswolds.
We have lots of options for your special day, including a stunning chapel onsite and some historic private reception rooms that are licensed for civil ceremonies.
Should you wish to tie the knot at a private religious ceremony, our picturesque Victorian Chapel, located within the grounds, is fully licensed and available for hire.
This can be arranged with the agreement of our resident Chaplain, who is always pleased to meet and discuss formalities with prospective brides and grooms.
If you would prefer a civil ceremony then we have several licensed rooms where your ceremony can take place.
We have the Bathurst dining room, Bathurst lounge and the Kenneth Russell room for you to choose from, for more about the rooms click here.
You can find more details about civil ceremonies here .
We can cater for all wedding sizes, small or large and our team uses responsibly sourced ingredients with provenance at the heart of what we do.
We have several wedding menus to suit all different tastes, however if you have something else in mind then we would be delighted to discuss further options and design a bespoke menu.
We can also offer delicious alternatives for anyone who has any dietary requirements.
We also have accommodation on-site which we can offer to wedding guests wishing to stay overnight, please let the team know if you would like this option so that we can check availability for you.
We’d love to help make your wedding special.
Contact our events team on 01285 889856 or email weddings@rau.ac.uk .
Find a wedding supplier: https://weddingassistant.co.uk
Make a wedding enquiry via our online form

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/for-business/venue-hire/short-breaks:
The Royal Agricultural University is a perfect base for exploring the Cotswolds.
Situated on the outskirts of the Roman market town of Cirencester, with Bath, Cheltenham, Bristol and Oxford within easy reach for superb sightseeing and shopping.
We are also a great location for those wanting to attend the races at Cheltenham, walk or cycle the Cotswolds Way or the other various footpaths right on our doorstep.
Set in the magnificent grounds of the University en-suite double, twin and single bedrooms are available all year round.
To book a short stay please phone us or send an email.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/venue-hire/filming-photography-rau:
With a rich tapestry of locations including a 16th-century farmhouse, Tithe Barn, Chapel, and more, we offer endless possibilities for capturing the essence of your project.
Join esteemed productions such as Poldark, Spanish Princess and The Antiques Roadshow in choosing us as the backdrop for filmmaking excellence.
Whether you seek timeless landscapes or iconic architecture, our campus provides the perfect canvas for your vision.
To enquire about venue hire and arrange a visit of the Royal Agricultural University, get in touch via our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/publications:
Our research publications are deposited in the RAU Repository – a joint repository for research outputs from members of GuildHE, a representative body for Higher Education in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/national-innovation-centre-for-rural-enterprise-nicre:
NICRE research activities and outputs at the RAU are led by NICRE Deputy Director Professor Tom MacMillan .
NICRE’s aims are to develop and discover the possibilities of the UK’s rural enterprises.
We focus on expanding our current knowledge through research, working with rural businesses and communities, in order to discover new ways to innovate and support rural enterprise.
NICRE prioritises effective and meaningful change for rural businesses by encouraging innovation and opportunities in rural areas.
They ensure that these innovations are sustainable and enduring, and could be transferred to other areas in the UK.
NICRE makes use of the combined expertise of our higher education partners, from the Universities of Newcastle, Gloucester, Warwick, and the Royal Agricultural University.
( For further information on NICRE please click here )
NICRE aims to shift the policy narrative about rural economies and unlock their innovation and potential in England.
It has three primary aims realized in corresponding workstreams: To
Photo credit: Tommy Kwak
Productive rural: This theme focuses on how government policy and business support services can effectively benefit rural enterprise, enabling its contribution to the economic productivity of the UK.
Smart rural: This ensures that rural businesses can keep up with modern challenges, such as big data and clean growth, by analysing their impacts on rural economies.
Engaged rural: This encourages rural economies - which consist of many small, self-employed, home-based businesses - to connect with researchers and wider networks that can enable their innovation.
Resilient rural: This explores the importance of the rural UK’s natural assets to the success of rural economies, whilst encouraging a balance between growth and sustainability.
Photo credit: Annie Spratt
Follow NICRE on X (Twitter) @NICRErural or LinkedIn.
Innovation project on rural micro-clusters with Sussex University
Research into creative industries – businesses based on creativity, skill and talent – has tended to focus on urban areas and much less is known about the structure and support needs of those based in rural areas.
This research strand is investigating how the rural creative sectors contribute to business growth and innovation and how state-funded cultural investments may contribute to rural innovation and resilience.
The research is conducted in collaboration with the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre and Arts Council England.
Read more about Rural Economy research
NICRE (2021).
What is the contribution of rural enterprise to Levelling Up, and how can this be further enabled?
Briefing Paper No.1, March 2021.
For further NICRE publications please click here .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/cultured-meat-and-farmers:
Tackling and adapting to climate change will change the way we eat.
While it is almost certain this will include eating less meat overall, there are big questions over how we get there.
Do we cut back more on beef or on chicken?
Do we change our habits, or substitute meat alternatives in processed foods?
Who are the winners and losers?
Cultured meat, also known as cultivated, cell-based, or lab-grown meat, is one type of meat substitute.
It has attracted interest from investors because of its potential to have the same taste and texture as conventional meat, and appeal to committed carnivores.
Until now, very little research into cultured meat has considered how its adoption would affect farm businesses.
There has been significant research into the ethics, health, climate and economic impacts of cultured meat but farming has been left out of the picture.
As well as mattering to farmers, this is important to understand the overall environmental, social and economic impact of these technologies.
After two years of study involving farmer focus groups, partnering with farms across the country, analysing farming media, and modelling opportunities for collaboration, we summarised our key findings in the report ‘Culture Clash’.
This short film draws out six key findings from the study.
Although Cultured Meat & Farmers is now finished, the RAU remain involved in discussions about the future of cultured meat and other cellular agriculture.
We are leading the ‘engaging public and policy’ element of CARMA , the seven-year EPSRC-funded Cellular Agriculture Manufacturing Hub.
Our role is to invite wide ranging opinions on the technology, and on the direction of CARMA’s research effort.
If you have a view on cultured meat and would like to speak with the CARMA project team, please get in touch here .
The first phase of the project addressed farmers’ attitudes towards cultured meat.
Focus groups were held with 75 farmers representing a wide range of sectors, spread across the UK.
The groups discussed their understanding and perceptions of cultured meat and the potential impacts it could have on farming.
The study found recurring themes about the threats to food and farming, and some possible opportunities too.
Watch "Cultured Meat and your Farm Business" for a summary of the findings , or read “Threat or Opportunity”, a paper on farmer attitudes towards cultured meat , published in Frontiers magazine.
We also reviewed what was being said about cultured meat by farmers on social media and The Farming Forum, and in the farming press.
Section 7 of Culture Clash summarises the findings.
For more detail, read this paper on the narratives of cultured meat in farming media .
Next, we partnered with eight farms chosen to represent those most likely to be affected, for better or worse, by the impacts identified in the focus groups.
Together, we produced business plans for each farm setting out how they might adapt.
These findings were used to produce a heat map of the winners and losers in an imagined future where cultured meat can be found in restaurants and supermarket shelves.
We explored how agricultural by-products might be used in the production of cultured meat.
Detailed economic and environmental modelling compared products such as oilseed rape meal, the solid residue left after oil extraction, which is used as animal feed or as fertiliser, as a source of amino acids for the media used to grow the cells.
We also investigated whether on-farm production might be economically viable.
See section 6 for more information, and watch this space for academic papers.
The project was awarded funding by UK Research and Innovation as part of its Transforming UK Food Systems Strategic Priorities Fund Programme.
It is one of 11 projects awarded funding under Government’s Transforming UK Food Systems Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF) programme.
The research team combined leading experts in cultured meat and technical specialists from academia and industry with experience in farmer-centred innovation.
The main contributors to this project, which centres on farm-based models of CM production, are as follows:
The project was developed with farming organisations, cultured meat businesses, food companies, charities and government.
They include the following:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/carma-cellular-agriculture:
At the RAU, we are asking UK citizens and stakeholders how they think the technology should develop.
We are then using this insight to help steer research efforts and influence policy.
The Cellular Agriculture Manufacturing Hub, or CARMA , is a multidisciplinary group of scientists funded by UK Research and Innovation .
CARMA is working on taking cell-ag from the laboratory to the shopping basket in a way that’s genuinely sustainable, and on developing the underpinning manufacturing technologies that would make it possible to produce cell-ag products at scale.
The RAU is part of the CARMA team and is leading on Work Package 6, ‘Engaging public and policy’.
It is our role to invite wide-ranging voices, lean into the nuances of the discussion, and bring scrutiny, both to the wider technology and to CARMA itself.
As part of this work, we have set up two forums:
The Stakeholder Forum, made up of people with business and professional interests in the future of cell-ag.
Stakeholders such as farmers, retailers, health professionals, environmental, and animal welfare NGOs come together to discuss the issues surrounding cell-ag.
The Citizen Forum, a ‘mini-public’ with members chosen to be representative of the UK population across a range of demographic factors and with varied political views and opinions on technology, food, environment and the climate.
These forums bring together people with diverse opinions on cellular agriculture; and act as a ‘reality check’ on what may, or may not, have social license.
What sets the groups apart is that as well as broad views on the technology, its members are tasked with giving specific guidance on challenges facing CARMA scientists.
This is a novel approach to citizen engagement within the cell-ag sector which we hope will help steer CARMA and the wider industry so that it works for everyone.
Cellular agriculture is the production of food and other consumables, traditionally grown on the land or in the sea.
Advocates say it has the potential to reduce the climate impact of our diets without sacrificing flavour.
Others have concerns about its potential impact on our food system and health.
The technology to produce these foods already exists.
The challenge now facing scientists, investors and regulatory bodies around the world is how to bring it to market.
For example, a cultivated meat product is already on sale in Singapore, and another has been approved for human consumption in the US.
Here in the UK, in February 2025, the first cultivated meat product went on sale as pet food.
Then in March 2025, the Food Standards Agency set up a ‘ sandbox ’ for cell-cultivated products.
This process will take two years and aims to establish how cultivated meat products should be regulated.
Pet food and human food do, of course, have completely different regulatory standards and food safety requirements.
It is precisely because of our agricultural background that we are involved in CARMA.
From 2022 to 2024, the RAU led a project called Cultured Meat & Farmers .
Despite being at the ‘sharp end’, amongst all of the ethical, economic and environmental research into cultured meat, hardly anyone had thought about how it might impact farmers.
The project brought together researchers, farmers, policymakers, and cultured meat start-ups to find out what farmers think of cultured meat and model what it might mean for UK farming.
Find out more here.
If you would like to feed in to our work in this area, we would love to hear from you.
We are also looking to grow the Stakeholder Forum.
If you have a professional interest in the future of our food system and can spare 2-3 hours four times a year, please get in touch.
Contact us via our enquiry form here.
Our Work Package Lead is Atenchong Talleh Nkobou.
Read more about Atenchong here.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/reversing-the-gaze:
​ Project team:
Funding source: ESRC New Investigator Grant ES/X010872/1
This project uniquely employs knowledge and experiences from the global South as a fresh lens through which to review the nature of community land rights in Scotland.
We argue that an approach to sustainable land use starts with recognising the multiple forms of land use and making legible the lived experiences and knowledge of those who have radically altered property norms to promote local community-led sustainable development.
The project aims to generate new and critical insights into the future of agriculture and sustainable land management in Scotland with implications for the wider UK.
We examine contested concepts such as 'sustainable development', the land-use outcomes of the 'just transition' and questions of inclusivity within Scottish land legislation, debates and activities.
To help us interrogate these concepts, we draw on a decolonial framework on sustainable land use and ownership, and follows De Sousa Santos’ call (2014) for justice against epistemicide.
This explains why our methodology captures the concerns of epistemic justice and adheres to methodological guidelines from the Popular University of Social Movements (UPMS, 2015).
Our approach involves using participatory action research with representatives of case study community bodies and a cross-section of individuals engaged with the struggles for community land rights in Scotland.
In-depth interviews, photo elicitation techniques, exhibitions, and dialogues will be used to further explore alternative ideas and knowledge within the struggles for community land rights.
Our work is innovative in that the project considers community members as co-investigators and custodians of knowledge as they visualise and create self-reflective artefacts and records of their everyday realities and attachments to land.
This process seeks to be empowering because it recognises the existence of many forms of knowledge and lifeways that need to be made legible to a wider audience.
Hence, the project creates contexts and opportunities for mutual learning on questions about equitable access to and control over natural resources.
The point is to draw on Scottish experiences to systematically highlight the knowledge, articulations and alliances that can underpin global struggles for community land rights as variously understood and imagined.
Finally, we aim to foster a community of knowledge and practice that will bring together activists, academics, policymakers, key informants, and social groups from different regions.
This community will be encouraged to elucidate knowledge embedded in the struggles for community land rights in Scotland.
We pursue this exercise of community practice by facilitating and observing dialogues between nine purposively selected community land activists - three from Scotland, Tanzania, and South Africa, respectively.
Conversations between community activists will be organised through virtual meetings, workshops and photo exhibitions.
Added to these, we will document an extended critical reflection on our positionalities as researchers of land rights and land reform in Scotland, Tanzania, and South Africa, aiming to explore and contextualise Scotland's politics of land ownership.
We anticipate that synergies between Scotland's community land struggles and those in the global South can be established through a shared understanding of the centrality of equitable and sustainable land-use politics and practices.
Indeed, in many cases, these contestations over land rights are informed by increased awareness of a rights-based push for equitable land reforms, sustainability, climate resilience and environmental protection.
The research will contribute to academic and popular debates, including academic and popular publications and two open lectures at the RAU and the University of Reading, on exploring the different forms of land ownership and community practice.
Through these processes of knowledge co-production, our project aims to achieve a number of impacts.
Impact:
Project start date: 1 November 2023
Expected end date: 1 November 2026
Contact : a.tallehnkobou@rau.ac.uk
Reflections On The CLS Conference 2024, 11 July 2024

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/giving-us-voice:
Funding source: British Academy’s ODA Climate Change Challenge Grant IOCRG\101531
Funded by the British Academy’s ODA Climate Change Challenge Grant, the ‘Giving us Voice’ project led by Prof.
Mark Horton and Dr Annalisa Christie (RAU) in collaboration with Dr Elgidius Ichumbaki, University of Dar es Salaam sets out to understand how artisanal fishers in Pemba, Unguja and Mafia, Tanzania  are affected by and are adapting to the effects of climate change.
Fishing and its associated activities represent one of the most important economic sub sectors in Tanzania - contributing between 1.6% and 1.8% GDP, directly employing around 200,000, while the wider fisheries industries contribute $45m to the economy and employ around 4.7 million people.
The majority of the fishers are small scale artisanal operators using traditional gears such as basket traps, fence traps, gill nets and hand-lines, fishing from traditional dhows and dug out outrigger canoes (ngalwa), propelled by sail and paddles.
Their way of life is increasingly threatened by offshore international trawlers, a local shift towards non-traditional 'ring netting', and the creation of marine conservation zones.
On top if this, comes climate change, with reef acidification coral bleaching, warming sea temperatures, rising sea levels and increased variability in wind.
These artisanal fishers exploit different marine ecological zones, from inshore rocky lagoons, mangrove swamps, to coral reefs, and some pelagic zones offshore; while reef fish are the main staple, other products include crabs, lobsters and octopuses for the hotel industry, and shell fish for local consumption.
Traditional gender norms have resulted in many women and young people involved in processing and trading the catch, but they have also capitalised on the marine environment in other ways, through shell- and octopus fishing and seaweed farming -with the latter now employing over 25000 women.
Over the next 12 months, the project team will be working with coastal communities, NGOs, marine park officers and government officials across Pemba, Unguja and Mafia, using interviews and workshops to record their experiences of climate change effects and to explore whether or how artisanal fisher are adapting their practices in the face of these challenges.
We will use a combination of interviews and workshops to collate their experiences, drawing on cultural and creative industries to develop digital outputs that will shine a light on their experiences and share their voices on a global stage.
The data collected will be used to determine whether or how the different economic systems, management and governance structures of these islands are affecting the resilience of artisanal fishers.
Our work will be used to inform fisheries policy in Zanzibar and Tanzania, with the diversity of perspectives collated, allowing for greater nuance in policy recommendations.
Data collected from across the three islands will be used.
To achieve this, they will use interviews, workshops and storytelling, working with artisanal fishers and shell-fishers from across these islands to produce a film to be submitted to the Zanzibar International Film Festival and to co-create an object that embodies community perspectives and articulates their hopes and fears for the future.
Complementing these, they will work particularly with women to co-produce a series of graphic novels.
Project start date: July 2024
Expected end date: 31 December 2025
Contact : Annalisa.Christie@rau.ac.uk
Watch video blog 1
Watch video blog 2
Watch video blog 3
Watch video blog 4
Trailer for film The Sea is our Life a documentary

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/natural-history-collections:
The Royal Agricultural University holds several archival natural history collections that are closely linked to the history of the institution, including:
Our current research focuses on the herbarium, which is a collection of dried, pressed plants and plant-like specimens.
These specimens are often accompanied by detailed labels that state the species name, the location and date of collection, and the name of the collector.
The herbarium was established at the newly founded Royal Agricultural College in 1845 by Samuel Pickworth Woodward, Professor of Geology and Natural History.
Woodward’s herbarium forms the majority of the collection, comprising specimens dating between 1787 and 1863.
It also contains substantive mid-late 20th century collections by Dai Barling, Lecturer in Agricultural Botany, and John Stevens, Laboratory Superintendent.
In addition, there are numerous smaller contributions from approximately 300 other collectors.
The majority of specimens are wild species collected in the British Isles, but some international specimens are also represented.
The importance of herbaria has become increasingly well recognised in a number of study areas including: ecology and nature recovery; evolution, taxonomy and identification; environmental and climate change; arts and humanities; teaching and outreach (Carine et al.
2018; Funk, 2003).
We are working on a number of impactful herbarium projects:
We would like to thank our funders:
Hemmings, K., & Rollings, P.
(2025).
‘This disagreeable weed’: arable plant conservation may benefit from historical publication insights.
Environment and History, 31(2), 153-160.
https://doi.org/10.3828/whpeh.6386148032734 .
Hemmings, K.
(2022).
Ancient woodland indicator species: can old herbarium specimens supplement recent records to inform ecological management.
Webbia, 77(2), 327-336.
https://doi.org/10.36253/jopt-13400 .
At present, the collections are not open to the public and we do not have capacity to offer loans, but we are working on increasing access and engagement through our ongoing digitisation and chatbot projects.
Carine, M.
A., Cesar, E.
A., Ellis, L., Hunnex, J., Paul, A.
M., Prakash, R., ...
& Yesilyurt, J.
C.
(2018).
Examining the spectra of herbarium uses and users.
Botany Letters, 165(3-4), 328-336.
doi.org/10.1080/23818107.2018.1482782 .
Funk, V.
A.
(2003).
100 Uses for an Herbarium: well at least 72.
American Society of Plant Taxonomists Newsletter.
Contact: Dr Kelly Hemmings , Royal Agricultural University

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange/bridging-fields:
There is increasing funding and support for research that prioritises the challenges, knowledge, and experience of farmers.
However, on-farm research requires practical and personal skills that can take years to acquire ‘in the field’.
This programme is designed to equip researchers, at all levels of experience, with the specific theoretical and practical knowledge needed to co-design and run effective on-farm trials as well as enhancing researchers’ skills at collaborating and communicating effectively with farmers.
The 'Bridging Fields' programme launched in summer 2025 and has, thus far, included a range of online workshops and a residential course at the Royal Agricultural University.
With thanks to the Rothschild Foundation, all of the activities are offered free of charge.
Register your interest for future events
Fill in our Microsoft Form to register your interest in upcoming events .
Explore our online resources
Visit our Farm Pep webpage here, to explore useful resources used or mentioned throughout the Programme.
Join our closed LinkedIn group for the Programme
If you are a participant on the Programme, join our dedicated LinkedIn group here.
Find out more about Dr Lisa Morgans.
Find out more about Dr Emmanuel Junior Zuza.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/euraknos-project:
EURAKNOS is a European project, funded by H2020, to maximise the agricultural innovation knowledge base by building an e-knowledge platform to enable the rural community easier access to best practices from all EU H2020 Thematic Networks.
It will achieve this by bringing all output from 29 existing thematic networks together, building connections between them and end-users to share results, learnings and best practices across all the networks, and their rural communities, covering different countries, regions and production systems.
The network will exchange approaches, methodologies and tools.
In order to maximise engagement with farmers and practitioners, EURAKNOS will analyse the impact of thematic networks and identify optimal approaches for future thematic networks.
To do this, EURAKNOS will explore the needs of end-users and the possibilities of creating a European agricultural knowledge innovation open source system connecting all thematic networks.
EURAKNOS ultimate aim is to make knowledge more accessible, findable, interoperable and reusable across the agricultural innovation community.
EURAKNOS has developed to form a sister project EUREKA, read more about this project .
The RAU is one of 17 partners brought together from ten European countries to deliver EURAKNOS.
All partners have relevant innovation expertise in agriculture and forestry, with nine partners already coordinators of ten thematic networks across four cross-sectoral themes of crops, livestock, forestry and horizontal.
EURAKNOS is a H2020 multi-actor project and includes: academia, advisory centres, government institutions, SME, NGO and farmer organisations.
Some partners are involved in the European Rural Development Network and others are involved in other relevant H2020 proposals or have strong links with relevant European (e.g.
EIP-AGRI, COPA-COGECA, EUFFRAS, member of SCAR SWG-AKIS group) and international organisations (e.g.
FAO, OECD, the European Agroforestry).
April 2020
EURAKNOS project shares its vision for an EU-wide open source knowledge reservoir for agriculture and forestry.
Read the press release and view the vision paper .
You can also listen to a recent podcast about farmer-led innovation from Professor David Main at the RAU.
Follow EURAKNOS on social networks:
You can find out more about the EURAKNOS project here.
EURAKNOS has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme under grant agreement No 817863.
Contact us about EURAKNOS

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/eureka-project:
EUREKA builds on the work of its sister project EURAKNOS .
It is a H2020 project that aims to ensure the long-term and wide use of practical knowledge and innovative solutions, generated by multi-actor projects.
EUREKA has brought together 21 multi-actors from 16 member states and 48 supporting organizations, to co-create a stronger and reinforced EU wide agricultural knowledge base by developing an open source e-platform, called the FarmBook.
This two-sided market platform, like Facebook, will address the needs and improve the connections between farmers, foresters and advisors.
The Royal Agricultural University (RAU) is leading a work package to understand knowledge demand through profiling the needs and preferences of end-users, this will help to inform the actual design of the FarmBook as well as verifying the preferred communication and dissemination channels used to promote EUREKA outputs.
Persona development and user journey mapping is often used by service providers to inform design, ensure that products are tailored to the end-user and ultimately that they are fit for purpose.
Personas are fictional characters that help to represent a group of people and include key characteristics (e.g.
region, education gender).
User journey mapping helps to understand how users solve problems, in this context, how they access knowledge to overcome an issue within agriculture.
The RAU alongside Leap Forward Group (Belgium) will be using these techniques to run 4 regional workshops across the EU to understand the diversity as well as similarities between potential end-users.
This qualitative study will feed into the development of a large-scale survey to quantitatively assess preferences.
Follow the EUREKA social media pages below and sign up to the newsletter for updates:
EUREKA website
EUREKA newsletter
Follow EUREKA on Twitter
Follow EUREKA on YouTube
You can also contact one of the RAU team directly for more information:
Emily Bull: emily.bull@rau.ac.uk
The EUREKA project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation programme under Grant Agreement No.
862790

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/research/research-at-rau/pathways-project:
With the aim of reducing environmental impacts while addressing societal demands for safe, nutritious and affordable meat and dairy products, PATHWAYS is about identifying and increasing sustainable practices along the supply and production chains of the European livestock sector.
Coordinated by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and comprising 28 partners from 12 countries, this 5-year (2021-2026) €9 million Horizon 2020 project contributes to the EU Farm-to-Fork Strategy which is at the heart of the EU Green Deal.
Using a participatory approach the PATHWAYS project will co-develop visions, scenarios and transition pathways for sustainable livestock husbandry and food systems based on innovative practice hubs, living labs and interactions within a European multi-actor platform and wider community of practice.
PATHWAYS will inform policy, research, and business strategies to support the transition to more sustainable livestock production and consumption.
The project is split into 10 work packages:
PATHWAYS Work Package 1 (WP1) is led by Dr Jenny Yngvesson (SLU) and facilitated by the University's Dr Jessica Stokes , working together with other task leaders Dr Anna Hessle (SLU), Dr Agnes van den Pol (AERES) and Dr Daiana de Oliveira (SLU).
We have established and are operating a participatory approach for co-innovation, co-learning and data collection to enable a timely and effective transition to improved practices within the European livestock food systems.
Image above shows the WP1 team.
Image shows a PATHWAYS facilitation session.
You can find out more about the PATHWAYS project and the work packages here .
Follow PATHWAYS on social networks:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/governance:
There are up to 12 independent governors who are appointed to serve for up to three terms of three years on the Governing Council.
In addition in June 2019 the articles of association were amended to include a Student Governor, a Staff Governor and the Vice-Chancellor.
Beneath the Governing Council are a range of sub-committees that either report to it directly or through the Vice-Chancellor's Executive Group; these sub-committees are chaired by Governors.
The University is run on a day to day basis by an executive group chaired by the Vice-Chancellor.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/david-adamson:
From Apples to Zoonosis.
David is an agricultural economist who specialises in decision-making under risk and uncertainty.
David has extensive experience in modelling economic production systems (irrigation, livestock, cropping, etc) to explore policy and strategic research issues.
He has applied these skills to protect capital (economic, social, cultural, and environmental) from issues including, but not limited to, biosecurity, water resources and climate change.
David works with multidisciplinary teams around the world.
He holds an honorary position at the University of Liverpool, UK dealing with one-health economics.
He has been published in leading journals, including Nature Sustainability, Global Environmental Change, Water Resource Research and Land Economics.
His extensive consulting experience includes working for the World Organisation of Animal Health (OIE), USDA, The Uruguayan Government, and The Murray-Darling Basin Authority in Australia.
Research Methods.
Journals
Loch, A., Croft, M., Adamson, D.
& Giancaspro, M.
(2024) Assessing effective deterrence of theft in transboundary water systems, Nature Water, 2(4) https://doi.org/10.1038/s44221-024-00223-8
Dionisio Pérez-Blanco, C., Loch, A., Mejino-López, J., Gil-García, L., Adamson, D., Saiz-Santiago, P., & Antonio Ortega, J.
(2024).
Abatement and transaction costs of water reallocation.
Journal of Hydrology, 635, 131119.
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2024.131119
Dumbrell, N.
P., Wheeler, S.
A., Zuo, A., & Adamson, D.
Comparing Australian public and farmer views on agricultural land use and management practices for sustainability.
Ecological Economics, 219, 108149.
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2024.108149
Gilbert, W., Adamson, D., Donachie, D., Hamilton, K., & Rushton, J.
(2023).
A Cost–Benefit Analysis of Preparing National Veterinary Services for Transboundary Animal Disease Emergencies.
Transboundary and Emerging Diseases, 2023, 1765243.
https://doi.org/10.1155/2023/1765243
Adamson, D.
& Loch, A.
2023, Overcoming deterministic limits to robustness tests of decision-making given incomplete information: The state contingent analysis approach, Water Economics & Policy, Doi: 10.1142/S2382624X22400112
Loch, A.
& Adamson, D.
2023, Editorial – Sustainable water policy must deal with risk and uncertainty, Water Economics & Policy, Doi: 10.1142/S2382624X22020027
Dumbrell, N.P., Wheeler, S., Zuo, A., Adamson, D.
2022.
Public willingness to make trade-offs in the development of a hydrogen industry in Australia.
Energy Policy, 165, 112987.
Doi: 10.1016/j.enpol.2022.112987
Svi,K, Adamson, D.
Griffith, G.
2021, Profitability of Cashew Nut Processing in Cambodia, Australasian Agribusiness Perspectives, 24:282-310, ISSN: 2209-6612
Pérez-Blanco, C.D., Loch, A., Ward, F., Perry, C., Adamson, D., 2021.
Agricultural water saving through technologies: a zombie idea.
Environmental Research Letters., Doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/ac2fe0.
Adamson, D & Loch, A.
2021, 'Reducing the risk of water efficiency capital exposure to future scarcity shocks', Land Economics, 97(3), Doi: 10.3368/wple.97.3.100119-0143R
Dumbrell, N.P., Adamson, D., Zuo, A., Wheeler, S.A., 2021.
How do natural resource dependent firms gain and lose a social licence?
Global Environmental Change 70, Doi: 102355, Doi: 10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2021.102355
2021, Book Review: Dead in the water: A very angry book about our greatest environmental catastrophe.
The death of the Murray-Darling Basin, by Richard Beasley, 2021, 296 pp, ISBN: 9781760878450, Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics 65(2) pp 291-317, Doi: 10.1111/1467-8489.12428?af=R
Loch, A., Auricht, C., Adamson, D., Mateo, L., 2021 Markets, mis-direction and motives: A factual analysis of hoarding and speculation in southern Murray–Darling Basin water markets.
Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics 65(2), pp.
291-317.
Doi: 10.1111/1467-8489.12419
Perry, B., Rich, K.M., Rojas, H., Romero, J., Adamson, D., Bervejillo, J.E., Fernandez, F., Pereira, A., Pérez, L., Reich, F., Sarno, R., Vitale, E., Stanham, F., Rushton, J.
2020, Integrating the technical, risk management and economic implications of animal disease control to advise policy change: the example of foot-and-mouth disease control in Uruguay.
EcoHealth.
Doi: 10.1007/s10393-020-01489-6
Adamson, D., Gilbert, W., Hamilton, K, Donachie, D.
and Rushton, J.
2020, ‘Preparing for animal health emergencies – consideration for economic evaluation’, OIE Revue Scientifique et Technique, Vol.
39 (2), pp 625-635, Doi: 10.20506/rst.39.2.3112.
Loch, A., Pérez-Blanco, C.D., Carmody, E., Felbab-Brown, V., Adamson, D., Seidl, C., 2020.
Grand theft water and the calculus of compliance.
Nature Sustainability, Doi: 10.1038/s41893-020-0589-3
Dumbrell, N.P., Adamson, D., Wheeler, S.A., 2020.
Is social licence a response to government and market failures?
Evidence from the literature.
Resources Policy 69, 101827, Doi: 10.1016/j.resourpol.2020.101827
Loch, A, Adamson, D & Dumbrell, NP 2020, 'The Fifth Stage in Water Management: Policy Lessons for Water Governance', Water Resources Research, vol.
56, no.
5, p.
e2019WR026714, Doi: 10.1029/2019WR026714
Mallawaarachchi T., Auricht C., Loch A., Adamson D.
& Quiggin J.
2020, – Water allocation in Australia’s Murray–Darling Basin: Managing change under heightened uncertainty.
Economic Analysis and Policy, vol.
66, 2020/01/13/, pp.
345-369.
Doi: 10.1016/j.eap.2020.01.001.
Adamson, D, Gilbert, W, Rothman-Ostrow, P & Rushton, J 2020, 'The pros and cons of animal health and harmonisation', in C Wollf & A Hamilton (eds), Ensuring safe trade in animals and animal products, Scientific and Technical Review of the Office International des Epizooties (Paris), vol.
39 (1), pp.
173-181.
Doi: 10.20506/rst.39.1.3070
Loch A., Adamson D.
& Auricht C., 2020, (g)etting to the point: The problem with water risk and uncertainty.
Water Resources and Economics, 32, 100154.
Doi: 10.1016/j.wre.2019.100154.
Rosanowski, S.M., Carpenter, T.E., Adamson, D., Rogers, C.W., Pearce, P., Burns, M., Cogger, N., 2019.
An economic analysis of a contingency model utilising vaccination for the control of equine influenza in a non-endemic country.
PLOS ONE 14, e0210885.
Doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210885
Horne, A., O’Donnell, Loch, A, Adamson, D., Hart, B., and Freebairn, J., 2018 Environmental water efficiency: maximising benefits and minimising costs of environmental water use and management, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Water, 5(4), e1285, Doi: 10.1002/wat2.1285
Jackson, E.L., Adamson, D., 2018.
The live sheep export supply chain: when operational and societal complexities collide.
International Journal of Business and Systems Research 12 (2), pp.
181-196.
Doi: 10.1504/IJBSR.2018.090697
Gomez-Gomez, C, Pérez-Blanco C.
Loch, A., 2018, ‘Why do Economic Incentives Fail?
The role of Water trading and Pricing at a River Basin Scale?’ Water Economics & Policy, 4(1), pp 1750004, Doi: 10.1142/S2382624X17500047
2018.
‘Achieving environmental flows where buyback is constrained’.
The Australian Journal of Agricultural & Resource Economics, 62(1), pp 83-102, Doi: 10.1111/1467-8489.12231/epdf
Adamson, D., Loch, A, & Schwabe, K.
2017, ‘Adaptation responses to increasing drought frequency’, The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, 61 (3), pp.
385-403, Doi: 10.1111/1467-8489.12214
Tisdell, C.A.
2017, ‘The Importance of fixed costs in animal health systems’, OIE Scientific and Technical Review, 36 (1), pp 49-56, Doi: 10.20506/rst.36.1.2608
2016, ‘Pandora’s Box and the Level Playing Field: Food Safety and Regulations’, Farm Policy Journal, 13 (3), pp23-32.
(weblink)
Loch, A & Adamson, D.
2015, 'Drought and the rebound effect: a Murray–Darling Basin example', Natural Hazards, 79 (3), pp 1429-1449, Doi: 10.1007/s11069-015-1705-y
Loch, A., Adamson, D.
& Mallawaarachchi, T.
2014, 'Role of hydrology and economics in water management policy under increasing uncertainty', Journal of Hydrology, 518 (Part A), pp.5-16.
Doi: 10.1016/j.jhydrol.2013.10.049
2014, 'Possible negative sustainability impacts from ‘gold-plating’ infrastructure', Agricultural Water Management, 145 (Nov), pp 134-44.
Doi: 10.1016/j.agwat.2013.09.022
Zalucki, M.
P., Shabbir, A., Silva, R., Adamson, D., Shu-Sheng, L.
& Furlong, M.
J.
2012, ‘Estimating the Economic Cost of One of the World's Major Insect Pests, Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae): Just How Long is a Piece of String?’ Journal of Economic Entomology, 105, pp.
1115-1129.
Doi: 10.1603/EC12107
Schrobback, P., Adamson, D.
& Quiggin, J.
2011, 'Turning Water into Carbon: Carbon Sequestration and Water Flow in the Murray–Darling Basin', Environmental and Resource Economics, vol.
49, no.
1, pp.
23-45.
Doi: 10.1007/s10640-010-9422-1
Quiggin, J., Adamson, D., Chambers, S.
& Schrobback, P.
2010, ‘Climate change, mitigation and adaptation: the case of the Murray-Darling Basin in Australia’, Canadian Journal of Agricultural Economics, vol.
58, no.
4, pp.
531-54.
Doi: 10.1111/j.1744-7976.2010.01200.x
Zalucki, M.P., Adamson, D.
& Furlong, M.J.
2009, 'The future of IPM: whither or wither?', The Australian Journal of Entomology, vol.
48, pp.
85-96, Doi: 10.1111/j.1440-6055.2009.00690.x
Adamson, D., Mallawaarachchi, T.
2009, 'Declining inflows and more frequent droughts in the Murray–Darling Basin: climate change, impacts and adaptation', The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, 53, pp.
345–366, Doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8489.2009.00451.x
Mallawaarachchi, T.
2007, ‘Water use and salinity in the Murray-Darling Basin: a state-contingent model’, The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, 51(3), pp.263-282, Doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8489.2007.00380.x
Norton, G.
A., Adamson, D., Aitken, L.
G., Bilston, L.
J., Foster, J., Frank, B.
& Harper, J.
K.
1999, ‘Facilitating IPM: The Role of Participatory Workshops’, International Journal of Pest Management, 45 (2), pp.
85–90, Doi: 10.1080/096708799227860
Books
Quiggin J., Adamson, D., & Quiggin, D.
(eds.), 2014, Carbon Pricing: Early Experience and Future Prospects, Edward-Elgar, Cheltenham, Glos, GBR.
Book Chapters
Bhaduri, A., Dionisio Pérez-Blanco, C., Rey, D., Iftekhar, S., Kaushik, A., Escriva-Bou, A., Calatrava, J., Adamson, D., Palomo-Hierro, S., Jones, K., Asbjornsen, H., Altamirano, M.A., Lopez-Gunn, E., Polyakov, M., Motlagh, M., Bekchanov, M., 2021.
Economics of Water Security, in: Bogardi, J.J., Gupta, J., Nandalal, K.D.W., Salamé, L., van Nooijen, R.R.P., Kumar, N., Tingsanchali, T., Bhaduri, A., Kolechkina, A.G.
(Eds.), Handbook of Water Resources Management: Discourses, Concepts and Examples.
Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp.
273-327.
Adamson D, Auricht C, Loch A 2021, The Golden Gift of Groundwater in Australia’s MDB, In The Role of Sound Groundwater Resources Management and Governance, to Achieve Water Security.
Editors: UNESCO, UNESCRO i_WSSM .
3: 133-149.
UNESCO
Loch, A., Perez-Blanco, C.D., Rey, D., O’Donnell, E., Adamson, D., 2018.
‘Regulatory and Economic Instruments: A Useful Partnership to Achieve Collective Objectives?
in: Holley, C., Sinclair, D.
(Eds.), Reforming Water Law and Governance: From Stagnation to Innovation in Australia.
Springer Singapore, Singapore, pp.
123-139.
Pérez-Blanco, C., Adamson, D.
‘Economic Resilience’, Chapter 10 in Sven Fuchs and Thomas Thaler (eds), Vulnerability and Resilience to Natural Hazards, Cambridge University Press, UK, pp.
214-236.
Tisdell, C.
A., Adamson, D.
& Auld, B.
2017.
‘The Economics of Alternative Pest Management Strategies: Basic Assessment and Environmental Uncertainties’, Chapter 3 in Coll.
M.
and E.
Wajnberg (eds), Pest Management within the Environment: Challenges for Agronomists, Ecologists, Economists.
John Wiley & Sons, pp.
55-76.
Adamson, D., Zalucki, M.P.
2014, 'Pesticides and IPM: Practice, Practicality and Policy in Australia', Ch 16 in R Pershin & D Pimentel (eds), Integrated Pest Management- Experiences with Implementation, Springer, vol.
4, pp 387-411.
Loch, A., Wheeler, S.A.
2014, 'People versus place in Australia’s Murray-Darling Basin: Balancing economic, social ecosystem and community outcomes', Ch 12 in H Milber & V Squires (eds), River Basin Management in the twenty-first century: People and Place, CRC Press, pp.
275-303.
Mallawaarachchi, T., Adamson, D., Chambers, S., Schrobback, P.
2012, 'Variability and uncertainty: implications for water policy impact analysis', Ch 5 in J.
Quiggin, T.
Mallawaarachchi & S.
Chambers (eds), Water Policy Reform: Lessons in One Sustainability From the Murray Darling Basin, Edward Elgar Cheltenham, Glos, GBR pp.
82-100.
Mallawaarachchi, T., McClintock, A.
2012, 'Investment as an adaptation response to water scarcity', Ch 6 in J.
Chambers (eds), Water Policy Reform: Lessons in Sustainability From the Murray Darling Basin, Edward Elgar Cheltenham, Glos, GBR pp.
101-28.
2010, 'Quarantine and Food Safety Issues in a TPPA', Ch 8 in J.
Kelsey (ed.), No Ordinary Deal: Unmasking Free Trade and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Deal, Bridget Williams Books Ltd., Wellington, pp.
124-35.
1997, ‘Benefit cost analysis for biological control programs’, In: M.
Julien, & G.
White (eds.) Biological Control of Weeds: theory and practical application, Canberra: ACIAR Monograph Series.
Peer Reviewed Conference Papers
2012, ‘The Basin Plan, the Buy-Back and Climate Change: Determining an Optimal Water Entitlements Portfolio’, Water and Climate: Policy Implementation Challenges, Practical Responses to Climate Change National Conference, National Convention Centre, Canberra, 1-3 May.
Adamson, D., Schrobback, P.
2008, ‘Options for managing salinity in the Murray-Darling Basin under reduced rainfall’, 2nd International Salinity Forum: Salinity, water and society—global issues, Adelaide Convention Centre, South Australia.
P., Rochester, W.
A., Norton, G.
A., Maelzer, D., Fitt, G.
P.
1988, ‘IPM and Heliothis: what we have to do to make it work’.
In: Zalucki, M.
P., Drew, R.
I.
& White, G.
G., eds.
Proceedings of the 6th Australasian Applied Entomology Conference, 1998 Brisbane.
University of Queensland Press, pp.
107-114.
1995, ‘Pest control and sustainable agriculture; an oxymoron?’, The Inaugural Ecological Economics Conference, Coffs Harbour NSW.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-stephen-agyeman-yeboah:
Dr Stephen Agyeman-Yeboah is an international Teaching Fellow in Real Estate Valuation and Finance at the Royal Agricultural University.
He obtained his master’s degree and an undergraduate degree in Property Management and Investment (2008) and Real Estate Management (2006) from Edinburgh Napier University and Heriot-Watt University, respectively.
He also has a Higher National Diploma in Real Estate Management from Kumasi Polytechnics, Ghana in 2001.
Stephen received his PhD in Real Estate from the School of the Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure and Society Heriot-Watt University in 2013 under the supervision of Professor Colin Anthony Jones.
After six years of stints as a Senior Member and Lecturer in Real Estate and Facilities Management and Senior Tutor in Real Estate at the Department of Land Economy of Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana, and University of Manchester, Manchester, UK respectively, he was appointed to the School of Real Estate and Land Management at Royal Agricultural University in 2022 as an International Teaching Fellow in Real Estate Valuation and Finance.
In addition to the supervision of some of the students’ theses, He is the module leader of: Land and Property Economics, Property Market Transaction and Analysis, Principles of Valuation, Business Finance, Global Business Environment, Professional Sales Practices, Land -Related studies.
Prior to teaching experience in Higher education (HE) and Further education (FE) in the United Kingdom and internationally, he worked as a real estate and property manager in various government and non-organisations in Ghana and Scotland.
Real Estate Management, Housing, Facilities Management, Land administration, urban studies.
Teaching, supervision, assessment, and associated student support activities in real estate finance, valuation, economics and marketing at RAU, Cirencester and RAU’s BSc Real Estate double degree programme at Shandong Agricultural University (SDAU) and Qingdao Agricultural University (QAU), China.
I teach the following modules: Land and Property Economics, Property Market Transaction and Analysis, Principles of Valuation, Business Finance, Global Business Environment, Professional Sales Practices, Land -Related studies.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-liudmyla-batsenko:
I obtained Master’s degree and an Undergraduate degree in Management (2006), the title of the qualification awarded was Economist and Organiser of Agribusiness Complex from Sumy National Agrarian University.
MSc Psychology (2022) from Sumy State Pedagogical University AS Makarenko and Heriot-Watt University, respectively.
I obtained a PhD in Economic Sciences from the Kharkiv National Agrarian University, Ukraine in 2014.
I am a participant in the international technical assistance project of the European Union:
After 19 years as an Associate Professor Management Department, Sumy National Agrarian University, Ukraine, I was appointed to the School of Real Estate and Land Management at Royal Agricultural University in 2022 as an International Teaching Fellow in Management and Marketing.
Prior to teaching in higher education in the Ukraine I worked in several other areas such as banking and the educational system.
Editorial Board member of the International Scientific Conference on Knowledge Based Sustainable Development (ERAZ).
Associate member of the Ukrainian Association for Management Development and Business Education (UAMDBE).
Human Resource Management; Organisational Behaviour; Personal & Professional Development Planning.
Teaching and Postgraduate supervision.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dean-bieganek:
Senior Lecturer, Building Technology and Surveying.
I joined the RAU in September of 2021 as a Senior Lecturer in Real Estate and Land Management.
I am an experienced Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader who transitioned into academia following over 5 years in architectural practice in Canada.
I now have over 18 years of post-secondary teaching experience, having held posts at three previous UK-based universities.
I specialise in the subjects of building technology, building performance, building management and construction management.
I have a particular interest in sustainable building practices, and also the impact of building regulations on building design, performance and user well-being.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/christopher-brough:
Head of International Agriculture, Senior Lecturer in Animal Production Management.
Programme Manager

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/steve-bucknell:
Senior Lecturer, Real Estate and Rural Land Management.
Steve Bucknell Joined RAU in July 2025 after more than 35 years as a Chartered Surveyor in professional practice and industry.
Graduating from Reading University, Steve spent five years as a commercial property surveyor before moving ‘client-side’ to spend three years in the property department of a large retail organisation.
From there, Steve went on to spend over 25 years in commercial property development, with projects encompassing supermarkets, care homes and retirement accommodation, crematoria and an auction house.
His work covered demographic analysis, site finding, negotiation and acquisition, development appraisal, funding, planning, project management lettings and disposals.
Steve estimates he has delivered over 50 projects with a total value in excess of £400m.
During his career he has often given presentations at seminars and conferences.
Receiving the ‘What House’ award for best care home in 2006 and twice winning the Health Investors’ ‘Property Developer of the Year’ award (2011 and 2014), Steve also developed the first BREEAM ‘Excellent’ care home (Wadhurst Manor, East Sussex) and the first ‘Passivhaus’ care home (Juniper House, Brackley) in the UK.
As well as being an experienced main board level business leader Steve has also served for over 25 years as a local councillor variously at Town, District and Unitary levels.
Steve is married to Allison; they were foster carers for over 14 years.
In his spare time Steve is a bellringer, beekeeper, antiques buff and appalling golfer.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-caroline-buffery:
Caroline is a Senior Lecturer in Law on the Land and Property Modules in Real Estate and Rural Land Management.
She has been a Lecturer in law for a number of years, predominantly in Equity, Trusts and Land Law but also in other areas of Civil Litigation.
Caroline has a BSc, an LLM in Commercial Law, and was called to the Bar for the Inner Temple following the BVC.
She also has a PhD in Law from the University of Birmingham.
She has had legal roles in housing as an advisor and advocate, and as the legal officer for a canal and waterways charity, in which she undertook the conveyancing and transfer of property for a trust.
Caroline has a PhD from the University of Birmingham in Legal Geography, which is her specialist area of research.
She has an interest in a number of investigative perspectives in law from jurisprudence, human, cultural and urban geography through to history, literature, anthropology, and landscape studies.
She enjoys using the multi-disciplinary approach to law to analyse, frame, and debate legal theories and positions.
Undergraduate and postgraduate elements of law on several modules, including the property modules on RICS accredited courses, Dissertation and PhD supervision.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/tracy-bye:
Tracy graduated from the University of Central Lancashire (Myerscough College) in 2006 with a BSc (Hons) in Equine Science and Management.
She went on to work practically in the equine industry as a rider, coach, and trainer of young horses until she joined the team at Bishop Burton College as a Lecturer in Equine Science in 2011.
Tracy worked at Bishop Burton for just short of nine years, and in that time led on numerous initiatives to support student learning and development, including the annual Equine Performance Conference.
Alongside her full-time job Tracy completed her MSc in Equine Science, graduating from the University of the West of England (Hartpury College) in 2018.
Tracy went on to work at the University of Oxford, as the Deputy Director of Education in the Department of Oncology, where she was responsible for overseeing the development of new suite of MSc programmes, until she joined the RAU as a Lecturer in Animal Science in September 2023.
Tracy is currently completing her PhD, on a part time basis, at Loughborough University’s School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences.
Tracy’s research focusses on posture and balance in dressage riders, and the biomechanics horse-rider interactions though the saddle and stirrups.
Tracy is also an External Quality Advisor for the University of Chester and a member of the Saddle Research Trust Communications Committee.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/contact-us/press:
The Royal Agricultural University is proud to include a number of industry specialists, in the areas of agriculture and food production, real estate and land management, equine science and animal husbandry, and business and innovation, amongst its body of academic staff.
We offer expertise in the following areas:
Press Office

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/RAU-student-experience-video:
I came and did an open day and I loved how small the campus was and how close-knit everybody was.
I'm not from a farming background so I wanted an opportunity to get into the industry and I thought with the Uni's connections and research  this would be the best place to do it.
When I came here I found a very loving and welcoming community.
The students, the teaching and the non-teaching staff, they have been able to help me settle in and I just feel at home.
The best thing that I enjoy about being an RAU student is the fact that we are obviously in the countryside.
It's just a really, really beautiful campus and I can be back home, which is London, in about an hour or so.
I come from a non-farming background and I was worried that it was going to affect my studies but the lecturers have been really great in answering any questions I've had.
Life as an RAU student is very good, it's very hectic, there's lots going on on campus and off campus in town as well.
I've got friends in every year group because of just how close-knit it is and how you can just talk to everyone.
I said I was never going to go to uni, one of my teachers at school was like no you should apply anyway, and I came and just viewed it and fell in love with the place and was like, yeah this is where I want to go - definitely glad I came.
I can't say anything but I'm just glad to have come to this University.
What I've gotten here I could not have gotten it elsewhere.
I'm very glad that I came here.
I've made some lovely friends and had a great time studying and I love what I do, so yeah.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/rau-gains-centre-excellence-entrepreneurship-status:
Enterprise education is woven into many of the University’s taught modules, particularly those offered by the School of Business and Entrepreneurship .
The RAU’s extra-curricular Enterprise Programme has created over 50 successful businesses at the Cirencester campus, while Cotswold Hills dry white wine - grown at its Down Ampney vineyard - is produced, marketed and sold commercially by the students themselves.
Each year the RAU’s Dragons Den-style Grand Idea competition sees students pitch their business plans to an expert judging panel which has included Levi Roots , of Reggae Reggae Sauce and Julian Dunkerton, co-founder of Superdry.
Successful RAU entrepreneurs include Charlie Beldam, who produces Cotswold Gold Extra Virgin rapeseed oil at his farm in Broadway, and last year’s winner Alex Dunn , who created a farm safety app which helped her win the Farmers Weekly Agricultural Student of the Year title.
These achievements ensured that the RAU fully met all twelve of the accreditation criteria.
The IOEE’s Feedback Report highlighted that RAU students are offered personal tutoring to help them develop their business ideas, as well as benefitting from the University’s long-standing links to external experts and businesses.
Sarah Trouten, IOEE Chief Executive said: “A true entrepreneurial spirit could be felt within the university – staff and leaders all share the same desire to actively encourage students to grasp the enterprise opportunities on offer.
“Staff have worked hard to create this, building an eco-system of support for students and ensuring that those who want to go on to run their own business are given every opportunity to do so.”
Katy Duke, Head of Enterprise at the RAU said: “We’re proud that this IOEE award recognises the enterprising culture and support for start-up businesses offered across the University.
“Gaining Centre of Excellence status will enable us to further enhance our reputation in this area, including the link between what we teach at the School of Business and Entrepreneurship and how this is applied in real extra-curricular social enterprise projects.”
Professor Joanna Price, Vice-Chancellor of the RAU said: “We have nurtured an entrepreneurial mind set in students since our foundation nearly 175 years ago and the success of RAU graduates in business reflects this.
“Entrepreneurialism is an integral part our educational offering, but not just in our business-related courses, as all students have access to our pioneering enterprise programme and are encouraged by staff to develop astuteness and confidence.
“IOEE status is a significant endorsement of that strategy and of the creativity and ambition throughout the University.”
The RAU can now deliver its own IOEE programmes and qualifications and may receive recognition for its own programmes.
University staff, students and learners can also access IOEE membership.
The RAU offers a range of business degrees at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level, including a BSc in Business Management , where student satisfaction outscores the national average (National Student Survey 2018).
The University also offers an MSc in Business Management and an MBA in Innovation in Sustainable Food and Agriculture.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/sustainability-through-curriculum:
When we design and validate our courses, we aim to ensure that everyone who studies here will be equipped with the knowledge, skills, and attributes to work and live in a world where balancing economic, social, and environmental factors is vital.
Depending on the course studied, this might include doing a project to assess how sustainability features can be incorporated into a building conversion, investigating the long-term effects of farm management in soils, or working with a local wildlife group to find the most effective way to restore the habitat of a rare bird, insect, or plant.
Students may visit farms to see how to measure to improve sustainability and animal welfare can be put into practice.
What we eat and how we use land are central to tackling climate change, restoring nature, health, and livelihoods.
The RAU’s purpose, to care for the land and all that depend on it, puts us at the heart of these important issues.
Our academics include leading experts in agroecology and regenerative agriculture, soil management, animal welfare, farmer-centred innovation, cultural heritage and climate change, and healthy and resilient food systems.
We also walk the talk, with our in-house restaurant focused on sustainable sourcing and partnering with local community kitchen – The Long Table, and our Wild Campus project, enhancing the habitats on our doorstep.
All of our courses include learning that is relevant to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
90% of the scientific papers published by RAU researching since 2014 contribute to one or more of the SDGs with most focused on SDG 2 to end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture.
Our environment, food, and society are intrinsically linked.
The effective conservation of species, ecosystems, and natural resources is vital for sustainable development, and our future.
If you are passionate about protecting the environment, you can gain practical and leadership skills, as well as necessary knowledge and understanding to manage countryside, wildlife, and rural heritage sites.
If you have a fascination with how climate and current affairs affect the food on your table, you can gain the skills to shape policy and consult the major organisation in the food sector.
Our graduates have gone on to work for prestigious organisations such as The Wildlife Trust, The National Trust, RSPB, and The Forestry Commission.
You will deepen your understanding of the living and physical environment by working on live case studies and hearing first-hand from different organisations within the sector.
We also run our own Wild Campus project.
This collaborative initiative focuses on 60 acres of land occupied by the RAU, Cirencester College, and Cirencester Deer Park School.
Students can create transformational changes to the area, developing habitats that connect wildlife populations, including rare bat species, birds, butterflies, bees, dragonflies, amphibians and reptiles.
Whether you have an interest in the links between environment, food, and society, or lean more towards wildlife conservation and countryside management, you will gain a wealth of experience before you graduate.
If you want to study a more eagle-eyed view of environmental best practice, you will have the opportunity to visit different organisations within the sector.
This will help you to be able to move into a range of roles when you graduate.
Previous trips have included food producers such as artisan bakers, and educational establishments such as Ruskin Mill.
For those more concerned with conservation, there are regular opportunities to get hands-on.
You can study a course which has a practical one day a week which will give you a broad range of practical skills and training before you graduate.
Students have learned how to coppice, lay hedges, build dry stone walls, and restore grassland habitats.
Previous field trips have included the Gower Peninsula, the Somerset Levels, the rewilded Knepp Estate, the British Wildlife Centre and many more.
From sustainable agriculture, food security, and equine science and management, to business, real estate, rural land management and the rural economy, our researchers are regularly called upon by policy-makers and the national media for their expert opinion on a range of topical issues and policies.
Sustainable cropping systems are a key research theme at the RAU, with projects ranging from the impact of non-chemical weed control techniques, weed recognition, factors influencing nitrogen fixation for fertility building, bi-cropping, and developing novel legume cropping systems.
A key resource and research theme has been a 10-year fully replicated field trial site investigating how crop establishment technique influences crop growth, development and yield whilst also assessing how these treatments have impacted soil health and physical soil characteristics.
These research projects are helping agriculture move towards reducing the environmental impact whilst developing viable alternative production systems which is helping steer a more sustainable pathway for growing crops.
We also have leading expertise in supporting farmer-led research and innovation, coordinating the Farmer-Led Innovation Network, which brings together initiatives, support practical and innovative sustainability projects involving thousands of farmers across the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/policies-strategy-plans:
A new 2028 University Strategy has been approved providing a clear direction to become the Global University for Sustainable Farming and Land Management.
Three strategic goals: Reach, Quality and Sustainability drive our Corporate Aims and Aspiration for Excellence.
The University will continue to build a global reputation for excellence and leadership across our teaching, research and engagement.
The University will further grow a diverse inclusive community of students and partners in the UK and internationally.
We will also provide a showcase for sustainable & resilient management, through our land estate, finances and culture.
Our new annual strategic planning cycle ensures priorities and strategic projects are aligned and driven by a coherent strategic direction, coordinated via a new dedicated directorate, Institutional Planning & Governance.
Our curriculum is aligned to 17 Sustainable Development Goals and our forthcoming Food and Farming Strategy support the UN’s Envision 2030 agenda of no poverty, zero hunger, quality education and climate action.
The University has established new steering committees to focus on sustainability and a significant tranche of work has started to refresh the curriculum and enhance the quality of provision through increased internationalisation and increasing our Land Based subject coverage.
The RAU Sustainability Wheel illustrates the RAU Sustainability Principles.
The RAU has established a Circular Economy working group which held its inaugural meeting in 2024.
Using the RAU Sustainability Principles as its starting point, this group is tasked with developing a circular economy that will support the RAU in its day to day operations, its regenerative roadmap and the delivery of the Innovation Village.
In addition, we have enlisted consultants to create our ‘Regenerative Roadmap’ for our Cirencester Campus.
To create this roadmap, we have encouraged student and staff engagement, enlisting help from our Students' Union President for 2022/23, our new Students' Union President for 2023/24 and other key members of the Students' Union.
Staff and Students from across the University were encouraged to attend several workshops, and these findings were incorporated into our new roadmap, feedback has been collated and shared with the executive team including ideas of how students and staff would like to engage with our roadmap and achieving our RAU strategic goal of Sustainability.
Data has been collected to measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and plans to reduce these have been planned.
The Roadmap is due to be approved by the Governors of the University in late July 2023, so watch this space.
RAU is embarking of an ambitious Food and Farming strategy which includes an ambition for a growing proportion of food consumed in our hospitality services is produced sustainably and locally directly by or in partnership with the University.
We will also develop a profitable social enterprise business portfolio that reflects our sustainable food provenance ambitions.
The strategy is focused on engaging students in the associated challenges and opportunities.
This will include an annual Student Food and Farming Conference
Food and Farming strategy is an initiative that is aiming to a) ensure a growing proportion of food consumed in our hospitality services is produced sustainably by the University, b) develop a profitable social enterprise business portfolio that reflects our sustainable food provenance ambitions and c) our research, teaching and knowledge exchange portfolio is embedded in our farming, vineyard and equine operations that embrace technology and nature-based solutions relevant to government, industry and civil society global policy challenges.
At the Royal Agricultural University, we are committed to valuing and celebrating diversity and to advancing inclusive practices in all that we do.
Find out more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the RAU .
In addition, as part of our procurement process we use, where relevant the SUPC and LUPC frameworks for procurement of equipment, resources and services.
Both of these subscribe to high levels of environmental ambitions, giving us confidence that we are using suppliers with the same ethical and responsible values that we have when we select a provider.
For larger tenders we request information from bidders as to accreditations that would include ISO14001.
This gives assurance that suppliers have appropriate controls in place to mitigate environmental impacts.
Our Procurement and Invitation to Tender framework, incorporate our commitments to sustainability, ethical responsibilities and commitments to adhere to the Equality Act 2010, Modern Slavery Act 2015 and others.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/student-staff-engagement:
The Sustainability Action Group chaired by our Chief Operating Officer – Graham Pollard.
Graham started with the RAU in 2021 and has brought a wealth of knowledge of leading environmental and sustainability initiatives.
As part of the Vice-Chancellors Executive Group, Graham leads the RAU in reviewing and updating our Sustainability Action Plan commitments, and realising our refreshed ambitions.
The Sustainability Action Group is made up of a number of different members of staff across the University, including:
The Committee ensures there is an integrated, proactive approach to environmental sustainability across the RAU that is informed by best practice and supports the university’s vision, objectives and strategy.
The Chief Operating Officer, Associate Director of Estates & Facilities, Head of Planning, Data & Business Intelligence and the Institutional Planning Administrator have responsibility for environmental sustainability within their job descriptions.
Ideas and suggestions are collected by the staff from all of these different areas.
Each Sustainability Action Group has an agenda, but in addition to those above, guests are invited, including students, academics and consultants to present their ideas.
During 2023/24, the creation of our Estates Masterplan was completed.
Our Estates Strategy is fundamental to the RAU’s future success, and underpins many of our ambitions and incorporates work that has already taken place around our Regenerative Roadmap and our Campus Decarbonisation Strategy.
The Estates Masterplan illustrates the future transformation of our buildings, our land and our sense of place, to best service all those connected with the RAU and our wider communities for many years to come.
The mission for our Estates Strategy is to connect people and places through our natural environment.
And our vision is to work with the natural landscape to provide a world-class environment for leaders in sustainable farming and land management.
To create the Estates Strategy, we have encouraged student and staff engagement, enlisting help from our Students' Union President and other key members of the Students' Union.
Staff and Students from across the University and wider stakeholders, were encouraged to attend several workshops, and these findings were incorporated into our new roadmap, feedback has been collated and shared with the executive team including ideas of how students and staff would like to engage with our Estates Strategy and achieving our RAU strategic goal of Sustainability.
This include collecting ideas on how to reduce our carbon footprint and working out a holistic approach that makes us all accountable – students, staff and visitors to the RAU.
In addition, our academics have helped shape our curriculum to empower the new generation to champion new sustainability farming and environmental techniques of the future.
We are well-placed to achieve this.
Many of our academics have relevant expertise, our professional services team includes staff with the experience of successful sustainability initiatives, and the university’s new leadership team and Governing Council are strongly committed.
Dame Fiona Reynolds, as Chair of the Governing Council, brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in this area, including as a previous Director General of the National Trust.
The Students' Union is in the process of developing their strategic plan which includes sustainability targets as per the QSU framework.
This academic year saw the RAU’s first ever Go Green Week, which incorporated events organised by students and staff, we plan to build on this success and have another event later this year.
Students can be involved in the University’s Green Impact programme which brings together students and staff to ‘green’ the campus, curriculums and community.
Students can sign up to be an environmental auditor or a Green Impact project assistant.
In addition, we have a number of exciting clubs for students to get involved in, including Wild Campus, Conservation Club and working on the student allotment – work is underway to transform the allotment space on campus into a usable, sustainable space.
The intention is to have a rewilding area, heritage fruit trees and raised beds to grow produce that can be gifted to the RAU kitchen.
There are a number of University strategies that students can get involved in shaping, including the RAU Regenerative Roadmap (our sustainability strategy), and our Farm and Food Produce Strategy.
Our Sustainability Policy is implemented as part of the staff induction policy, this is reinforced with a reminder on staff pay slips and marketing material around the campus.
The importance of the sustainability policy is highlighted in the strategies and values of the RAU and culture of the University.
The nature of the studies at RAU incorporates sustainability throughout the course curriculum and specific modules.
We have a number of events going on this year including Staff Fest and our first ever Go Green Week.
The RAU Staff & Student Engagement strategy compliments the work already underway and plans for the futures and shows how we will engage with students and staff.
Sustainability at the RAU
Go Green Week 2024
Sustainability Action Group terms of reference
Sustainability staff and student engagement plan 2024-25

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/wild-campus:
Developing wildlife habitats across Cirencester's education quarter to connect wildlife populations, benefit protected species and invest in our community, environment, wellbeing and prosperity.
Wild Campus Cirencester is a European Regional Development Fund funded project, established in 2020 as a partnership between the Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester College and Cirencester Deer Park School.
The viability of wildlife depends on the corridors of natural habitat that species travel along to forage, breed and migrate with seasonal changes.
These are becoming increasingly scarce across the UK and as a result the wildlife that supports the pollination of our crops, the control of pests and our general wellbeing is vanishing.
The Wild Campus Cirencester project seeks to bring about real change at a local level, engaging and educating university students, school pupils, staff at the three organisations and the local community in Cirencester.
The collaborative initiative focuses on 144 acres of land occupied by the three educational establishments, which equates to approximately half the size of the town of Cirencester itself.
It aims to make transformational changes to the area, developing habitats that connect wildlife populations, including rare bat species, birds, butterflies, bees, dragonflies, amphibians and reptiles.
Blood vein moth, taken by Liam Collins
Pyramidal orchid, taken by Ruth Rudwick
Common lizard, taken by Bec Elton
Two female slow worms, taken by Bec Elton
It’s not about turning our sports pitches over to weeds, but about integrating the natural world into our campus life.
It’s about rehabilitating the land, achieving new and improved habitats, greater plant and animal diversity and maximising connectivity for the wildlife in our region.
It’s also about connecting us to the surrounding countryside so we can continue to enjoy the birds and hedgehogs that keep pests under control in our own gardens and provide us with the pleasure, relaxation and education opportunities that we have come to recognise as being so important.
During 2021 and 2022, we will be sowing the seeds for a sustainable and brighter future for our campus wildlife and future generations in Cirencester.
We will be working with our young people, university students, academics, professional services staff, local community and conservation groups to establish diverse natural grasslands for butterflies and bee populations and dark travel corridors and roosting locations for foraging bats.
Additional pond habitats will be created for amphibians and other invertebrates and woodland, hedgerows and shrub cover will be planted to provide food and cover for birds and mammals.
At the same time our grounds staff will be learning, alongside students, how to continue to manage and care for these habitats so they are sustainable and can contribute to our local economy.
There will be opportunities for everyone to get involved with special educational events, talks and practical work.
Collaborations with local businesses are also being explored; a glass of locally sourced camomile gin or a pot of lavender honey really brings wildlife that little bit closer to our daily lives.
By 2023 we will:
In 2022, the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) signed up to become a Hedgehog Friendly Campus (HFC).
This is a project funded by the British Hedgehog Preservation Society and started in 2018 in response to the rapidly declining hedgehog population.
Hedgehogs are listed as vulnerable to extinction on Britain’s Red List due to habitat loss, developing land and other anthropogenic hazards (e.g.
garden maintenance).
Hedgehog Friendly Campus aims to protect hedgehogs from hazards, enhance habitats and raise awareness within the community.
As a part of Wild Campus Cirencester, the RAU installed 5 hedgehog shelters around the campus, and has aspired to improve the existing habitats on campus.
HFC is divided into four sections, bronze, silver, gold and platinum; with each level requiring a certain number of tasks to be completed.
In January 2023 we were proud to be awarded with our bronze award.
The tasks required for this award covered a wide range of activities, and therefore we were able to include a wide range of both students and staff.
One of the most exciting parts of this award was to conduct hedgehog surveys, this was done by both students and staff using ink tunnels and thermal imaging spotters which were kindly supplied by Infiray UK.
These proved excellent methods for surveying as it allowed for us to gain an understanding of the general population on campus without being invasive.
We have been continually raising money for the British Hedgehog Preservation Society.
This has included collection points around campus as well as a Just Giving Page.
However, our main event was the RAU’s Hedgehog Friendly Campus’ launch which was ran by conservation students Rebecca Smith and Angharad Webb.
This was an excellent event which included a successful cake sale and multiple speakers to educate attendees on their work with hedgehogs and generally raising awareness.
Most of the other tasks completed were done with the help of the Conservation Club.
They have worked tirelessly to complete hazard and pond audits, build hedgehogs houses and bug hotels and complete copious amounts of litter picks (20 bags in total).
In fact, we won an award for the strangest piece of litter found, which was a fridge!
A key part of this award is to inspire others to become hedgehog heroes.
To do this, we visited schools in the local area to teach about our Wild Campus Project as well as Hedgehog Friendly Campus.
We completed a range of activities including how to rescue an injured hedgehog, invertebrate hunting and wildlife identification through the use of our camera trap footage.
Our project management team, including students and volunteers are leading this exciting project, but it’s very much an initiative that relies on the engagement and enthusiasm of our students and school pupils, supported by the wider community.
You can find out more about Wild Campus Cirencester by following our social media: @wildcampusciren on Instagram, @wildcampusciren on Twitter and our page on Facebook, Wild Campus Cirencester.
You can also email wild.campus@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/blog:
Staff and students can come through the RAU servery between 1.15 and 1.30pm and fill up a container to the brim with any food that would otherwise be wasted for just £2!
Food is first come first served so get in quick before it's all scoffed!
You need to bring your own container but bear in mind this includes hot food, soup and salads!
We were proud to fly our Go Green flag from the clocktower throughout the week as a symbol of our collective commitment to sustainability.
Let's continue to strive for a greener, more sustainable campus as we look forward to future initiatives!
Last week, our university community came together for Go Green Week, a fantastic series of events aimed at raising awareness about sustainability and promoting eco-friendly practices.
Cirencester food bank visited the RAU to inform students and staff about the importance of their work and we are delighted to report that 20 enthusiastic students volunteered for the upcoming Tesco Winter Collection, which will take place and the end of November.
Not only will the students' efforts supports the community, but each volunteer will receive a Recognition of Volunteering award, providing a valuable addition to their CVs or LinkedIn profiles.
Please join us for another session of Mindfulness Pilates in Kenneth Russell Room today at 1pm.
Head over to the labs at 2pm today to witness a Lavender Distillation demonstration.
Find out more about our local Food Bank and the vital role food banks play in supporting our community.
Join our Sustainable Craft Workshop and learn how to build a solitary bee hive with the RAU's Conservation Club!
All materials provided - just bring your imagination!
This week is the RAU's Go Green Week!
Please join our official launch of Go Green Week with RAU Chief Operating Office Graham Pollard!
Join Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust to explore our campus, assess its biodiversity, and brainstorm ways to make it better for nature!
Next Week (14 to 18 October), we will be holding our Go Green Week once again!
We have an exciting array of events planned that you won't want to miss!
A full schedule of events will be circulated shortly.
Thank you to everyone who supported the RAU’s first ever Go Green Week last week.
There were lots of different events including a food bank collection, plant pot painting, a mending workshop, a tree planting and a ‘no print day’.
We hope to make Go Green Week a regular event in the RAU calendar.
The RAU campus is home to the Cirencester Parkrun which takes place on our beautiful campus every Saturday at 9:00am.
It’s a fun and friendly weekly 5k community event and you can walk, jog, run, volunteer, or spectate.
This week Parkrun is supporting our Go Green Week by encouraging sustainable means of transport to and from the event.
If running isn’t your thing, then why not take your time and enjoy our self-guided Wild Campus tour?
Maps can be collected from Porters Lodge.
Please join us for another session of Mindfulness Pilates in Kenneth Russell today at 1:00pm.
Today we’re holding the RAU’s exclusive screening of Six Inches of Soil.
The screening will take place in the Boutflour Hall.
The event starts at 5:30pm for refreshments and the screening itself will start at 7:10pm and finish at 8:45pm.
Today is our No Print Day.
Please always remember to Think Before You Print and only print something if it is absolutely necessary.
Please join Matt Frost, one of the RAU Chaplains, for a service in the Chapel at 6:00pm today where he has prepared a sustainability themed service especially for Go Green Week.
The Vice-Chancellor and Students' Union will be planting a tree to commemorate Go Green Week 2024 taking place outside Bathurst Wing at 2:15.
We have lots of activities taking place in the Boutflour Hall today, including ‘paint your own plant pot’ mending workshop with the Craft Society; Craft Society Stall with proceeds to a wildlife charity; a clothing and book swap; and a Conservation Society stand.
Our second day of Go Green Week.
Lots of activities taking place across campus including Mindfulness Pilates this afternoon in the Boutflour Hall from 12:00 - 1:00pm today.
What do you want to see at RAU?
Pop down to the Atrium from 10:00am-12:00 today to learn about Climate Action at the RAU.
Very excited to hold our first Go Green Week.
Lots of activities taking place across campus including Planet Earth III screening this afternoon in the Parkinson Lecture Theatre from 3:00pm to 5:00pm today.
Matt Frost, from Cirencester Baptist Church, and Anton Wynn, from Cirencester Foodbank, will both be in the Atrium from 1:00pm to 3:00pm to answer all your questions about donating to this worthwhile cause.
More information about what to donate can also be found in our newsletter, which will also be sent out every day this week advertising what’s on.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/net-zero-and-managing-carbon:
Sustainability is one of the core pillars of our university strategy and we have been working hard to meet the challenges of our beautiful historical campus, working on plans around our energy and heating , standards for net-zero retrofit, waste management, circular economy, and setting emissions reduction targets and SBTi.
Our Estates Masterplan was completed in 2024.
When creating this plan we sought advice from industry experts, leaders in sustainability and used data from our estate.
We created a strategy which outlines our plans for the estate and our goals to ensure that we set industry leading targets to deliver truly optimised, energy positive, climate resilient and healthy environments, whilst integrating the character of the surrounding landscape within the use and design of the estate.
Please click here to find out how we plan to achieve net zero by 2040.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/equality-and-diversity/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-policy:
Policy Ref: HR011
Policy Owner: Director of HR
Approving Body: VCEG
Executive Lead: Chief Operating Officer
Date Approved: May 2021
1.1 The RAU values the dignity of each individual and recognises that the promotion of a culture of equality, diversity and inclusion is vital to success.
The University is committed to the elimination of unlawful discrimination and the advancement of good relations between different groups, and seeks to celebrate diversity and provide an inclusive working environment.
1.2 The RAU will strive to ensure that equality is embedded in all of its activities, policies and decisions and will work with partners to share good practice.
2.1 This Policy applies to all current and potential staff, external examiners, consultants and contractors.
2.2 It acknowledges discrimination on the basis of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief, sex or sexual orientation as set out in the Equality Act.
3.1 The Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy outlines the University’s commitment to to eliminate unlawful discrimination, promote equality of opportunity and advance good relations between different equality groups.
3.2 The University will seek to:
3.2.1 Create an inclusive community which promotes diversity and equality of opportunity for all, without fear of prejudice or harassment, no matter what their identity or background, and enable individuals from all backgrounds to work together with dignity and respect.
3.2.2 Provide a welcoming, secure and supportive environment where individuals are free to achieve their full potential.
The RAU will seek to ensure that all staff have equal access to the full range of institutional facilities and that adjustments are made to working practices as appropriate, in order to accommodate a diverse community.
3.2.3 Implement strategies, policies and processes aimed at promoting equality of opportunity and eliminating discrimination and ensure all forms of discrimination are addressed promptly and constructively to build an inclusive community.
3.3 The RAU seeks to eliminate discrimination and advance good relations between different groups and acknowledges that discrimination does not have to be intentional to be unlawful, recognising the protected characteristics below:
3.3.1 Age : the University will not treat anyone differently because of their age, and appreciates that discrimination may be a one-off action or as a result of a process based on age.
However, there are certain circumstances when when it is acceptable to treat someone differently because of age and those situations that are covered by the Equality Act.
3.3.2 Disability : the RAU recognises that a person has a disability if they have a physical or mental impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on their ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
This includes progressive conditions like HIV, cancer or multiple sclerosis, or if an individual has had a disability in the past, including mental health conditions.
3.3.3 Gender Reassignment is the process of transitioning from one gender to another to change from birth sex to the preferred gender.
The RAU recognises that an individual can be at any stage in the transition process, from proposing to reassign their gender, to undergoing a process to reassign, or having completed it.
3.3.4 Marriage and Civil Partnership is a union between a man and a woman or between a same-sex couple and discrimination may occur when an individual is treated differently at work because they are married or in a civil partnership.
3.3.5 Pregnancy and Maternity: Pregnancy is the condition of being pregnant or expecting a baby.
Maternity refers to the period after the birth, and is linked to maternity leave at work.
3.3.6 Race refers to a group of people defined by their race, colour, and nationality (including citizenship) ethnic or national origins.
3.3.7 Religion and Belief is when an individual is treated differently because of their religion or belief, or lack of religion or belief It encompasses any religion, like Christianity, Judaism, Islam or Buddhism, or a smaller religion like Rastafarianism or Paganism, as long as it has a clear structure and belief system.
3.3.8 Sex can mean either male or female and an individual cannot be discriminated against because: they are (or are not) a particular sex; someone thinks they are the opposite sex (discrimination by perception); they are connected to someone of a particular sex (discrimination by association).
3.3.9 Sexual Orientation : an individual must not be discriminated against because: they are heterosexual, gay, lesbian or bisexual; someone thinks an individual has a particular sexual orientation (discrimination by perception); or an individual is connected to someone who has a particular sexual orientation (discrimination by association).
Sexual orientation includes how an individual chooses to express their sexual orientation, such as through their appearance.
3.4 The University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy will support its aims.
4.1 All staff have a responsibility to ensure that their actions comply with the requirements of this Policy and to eliminate unlawful discrimination, promote equality of opportunity and advance good relations between different equality groups.
4.2 All managers are responsible for ensuring this Policy is implemented and maintained within their area of responsibility, confirming all staff are fully informed about their responsibilities and receive support and training in carrying them out.
Managers are responsible for taking appropriate action if they are aware of any acts of discrimination within their areas of responsibility, and support available from Human Resources.
4.3 The Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group is responsible for providing consistent leadership on equality and diversity issues, ensuring the Policy is effectively implemented and that appropriate action is taken against anyone within the University who does not act in accordance with the equality duties.
4.4.
The Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee has responsibility for the approval of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategies, policies and procedures and for overseeing their implementation.
The Committee reports to the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group which has the authority to make decisions or to recommendations for approval.
4.5 All visitors and contractors at the University are required to support and uphold this Policy.
The selection processes for contractors and suppliers may include the extent to which they comply with equal opportunities legislation, and contracts should include provisions requiring compliance.
5.1 The RAU’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy has been developed to promote the University’s commitment to an inclusive community and promote equality and diversity.
The Strategy guides actions, reflects the University’s priorities and supports progress and sets out how the University will put this Policy into practice.
6.1 Any cases of discrimination, harassment or victimisation will be taken seriously by the University and dealt with in a timely and sensitive manner in accordance with the University’s Dignity at Work Policy, Grievance Policy or Disciplinary Policy as appropriate.
7.1 It is expected that the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy will normally be reviewed on at least a three yearly cycle.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/partners/vineyard:
The 40 rows of vines are planted mainly with Ortega grapes with two rows each of Bacchus, Chardonnay and Seyval.
The grapes are handpicked at harvest before being made into our award winning Cotswold Hills wines in Gloucestershire.
Our range of wines includes our Silver Award winning (WineGB West Awards 2024) still Ortega 2023, a still white blend, still rose, white Sparkling 2020 and our fizzy white cans.
Our Cotswold Hills student team helps at the vineyard, as well as working on new projects such as the introduction of more sustainable packaging or new product lines.
Students involved in the Cotswold Hills project have the opportunity to develop their employability skills and experience, as well as making connections in the industry.
In addition sales of Cotswold Hills contribute to our RAU Ignite Enterprise Fund which supports entrepreneurial RAU students to start their own businesses, as well as access coaching and business support for their start-up.
For further information about Cotswold Hills, please visit our website ( www.cotswoldhills.org.uk ).
Cotswold Hills wine is stocked in over 125 outlets including a number of Mid-Counties Co-Op stores.
You can also buy it online .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduates-applying-to-the-rau/contextual-admissions:
At the Royal Agricultural University we want to encourage students from a wide range of backgrounds to participate in higher education.
The additional insight gained through contextual information allows us to recognise a student’s achievements and identify their potential to succeed in the context of their background and experience.
We are therefore committed to offering all eligible students a contextual offer, which is 8 UCAS tariff points (the equivalent of one A-level grade) lower than our standard offer.
The contextual information that we use is mainly taken from a student’s UCAS application form.
To be eligible for a contextual offer students must be Home (i.e.
UK domiciled) applying for an undergraduate programme and meet any one of the following criteria:
a) You are currently studying at one of the University’s link schools/colleges, and you are making your UCAS application via that school/college:
b) You are care experienced
Being care experienced means you will have spent time:
If you meet these criteria, please indicate your care status on your UCAS application form.
c) Your home postcode is in a Low Participation Neighbourhood
If you currently live in a postcode with low progression rates to university.
This is identified through the Government’s POLAR4 measure.
To be eligible as a Low Participation Neighbourhood you will need a POLAR4 score of Quintile 1 or Quintile 2.
You can check the status of your postcode through the Office for Students low participation neighbourhood interactive map .
The RAU will receive your POLAR4 score automatically through your UCAS application.
d) You are from a BAME (Black, Asian and Ethnic Minority) background
If you are a home student (i.e.
UK-domiciled) and have an ethnic background that is not White (British or Other).
If you meet this criteria, please email us on admissions@rau.ac.uk at the point of application to confirm.
e) You have served in the armed forces or you are a child from an armed forces family
If you have ever served in the UK Armed Forces, or if you have a parent or carer that currently serves in the UK Armed Forces, or who has done so in the past.
If you meet this criteria, please indicate your status on your UCAS application form.
A contextual offer is an offer which may be reduced, by one grade from the standard entry requirements and takes any contextual information into account if an applicant’s academic achievement has fallen marginally short of the conditions of the original offer.
An alternative programme of study e.g.
foundation year, may also be offered.
The University will also consider a wide range of equivalent qualifications and offers a range of different entry points into higher education.
While the University is committed to widening access and providing opportunities to students from disadvantaged backgrounds, it is not in the interests of the applicant or the University to admit students who do not have the full potential to succeed.
Therefore, we will monitor students who have been admitted on this basis as well as monitoring the impact of the implementation of this policy.
This information will inform any expansion to, or revisions of, the particular policy in future.
Students admitted on the basis of a contextual confirmation decision will have access to the same support services as all other students.
The University’s Developing Academic Skills module is designed to support students' learning development in a number of areas, including numeracy and statistics, time management, academic writing and referencing, and critical thinking.
All undergraduate students are also assigned a Personal Tutor who can offer advice and guidance and can help in building course confidence, academic skills and increased awareness of course opportunities.
For any further information or questions regarding our contextualised admissions policy then please contact admissions@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/work-for-us/benefits:
Transcript of Working for the RAU
We believe in investing in development and happiness at work and have a good range of benefits for our people which include:
The pension schemes supported by the RAU are:
Aviva Category X - all eligible RAU employees (except teachers) are automatically enrolled
Aviva Category Y1 - RAU Group Pension Scheme (defined contribution)- employees can upgrade to this scheme before their six-month probation.
Teachers’ Pension (for teaching staff)

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/benefits:
RAC/RAU alumni can enjoy the following benefits:
And, if you have not done so already please do join our Official RAU Alumni LinkedIn Group
Many of our alumni help our current students by providing mentoring support, placements and job opportunities as well as providing case studies and hosting trips or visits which are relevant to RAU courses.
Alumni also give donations to the Cirencester Fund to help enhance the student experience and other priority areas.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/events:
We run a variety of events for our alumni community each year.
If you are interested in hosting your own alumni event with support from the Alumni Office please get in touch: alumni@rau.ac.uk.
180th Lecture Series ~ Our Future in the Land
The fourth 180th anniversary lecture will take place on Wednesday 10 September 2025 in the Boutflour Hall, at the Royal Agricultural University, delivered by Sue Pritchard is Chief Executive of the Food, Farming and Countryside Commission (FFCC) and Tom MacMillan, Elizabeth Creak Chair in Rural Policy and Strategy at the Royal Agricultural University .
Behind our virtual realities of Zoom meetings and AI assistants, the world depends more critically than ever on how we use the land.
This is because land is under unprecedented pressure.
In the UK and globally, we need more from the land – food, energy, wildlife, carbon sinks, housing – than there are acres to provide it.
Unless, that is, we use it differently.
How can better ways of making decisions, and new tools and approaches to managing land, help us find a way through?
Sue Pritchard is Chief Executive of the Food, Farming and Countryside Commission (FFCC) and an independent Governor of the RAU.
The FFCC’s 2019 report, ‘Our Future in the Land’, recommended a national land use framework for England – a proposal accepted by the previous government that is now being implemented.
Prof Tom MacMillan is Elizabeth Creak Chair in Rural Policy and Strategy at the RAU.
He provided research support to the FFCC and is involved in an initiative at the RAU to support land use innovation.
He is a trustee of the Nuffield Farming Scholarships Trust.
Come along to learn more about the new tools and approaches to managing land and the impact this will have in the UK and globally.
Tickets and parking are free.
Visit this link to book on Eventbrite.
180th Heritage Open Day
Join us for a day of 180th anniversary celebrations, including a lecture about the history of the RAU, activities that all of the family can enjoy, tours of the campus and much more.
Food and drink will be available, for guests to purchase refreshments.
Everyone is welcome, no booking necessary.
For more information, please visit Heritage Open Days.
1972-1975 REM Grand 50th Reunion
Are you part of this cohort?
Please get in touch with us for your 50th Grand Reunion.
Plans include a lovely drinks reception and dinner.
Email alumni@rau.ac.uk for more information.
Wednesday, 22 October 6:00pm to 8:00pm
180th Lecture Series ~ Making Farming Buzz Again
The fifth 180th anniversary lecture will take place on Wednesday 22 October 2025 in the Boutflour Hall, at the Royal Agricultural University, delivered by Ann Conquest of Land Use Consultant (LUC), Associate Director, Rural Land Management and Duncan Westbury, Dean of Land and Property Management at the Royal Agricultural University.
Ann has over 20 years' experience in implementing and designing Agri-Environment schemes, having previously worked for Natural England .
Ann has a proven track record of effective partnerships working to find effective solutions to challenging situations.
She has worked extensively with farmers, NGOs, Local Authorities and large landowners and estates on a wide range of projects, aiming to benefit people, nature and the rural economy.
Professor Duncan Westbury joined the Royal Agricultural University in September 2023 after over 12 years at the University of Worcester and nine years at the University of Reading.
He has a very strong background in applying ecological principles to habitat creation and management, with specific research experience on the management of agroecosystems to support biodiversity whilst simultaneously supporting ecosystem services within agricultural landscapes.
Come along to learn what is being done to making farming buzz again, enhance biodiversity and ecosystem services in agriculture landscapes.
180th Lecture Series ~ Water, Wastewater, Everywhere...
Every drop counts!
The final 180th anniversary lecture will take place on Wednesday 12 November 2025 in the Boutflour Hall, at the Royal Agricultural University, delivered by Professor Kiran Tota-Maharaj, RAU Professor of Water Resources Management and Infrastructure, and Andrew Blackhall, CEO Water Research Centre.
Water, wastewater, everywhere… Every drop counts!
And every drop connects to our energy industries and food sectors.
Did you know the water is deeply connected to our Energy and Food?
In this 180th Anniversary Lecture Series, in partnership with the Water Research Centre Ltd (WRc) , we'll explore Microbial Electrosynthesis (MES), as a game-changer and revolutionary technology.
Imagine microbes and electricity transforming wastewater into valuable resources, addressing the challenges of the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) Nexus.
Uncovering how these fascinating technologies clean water, generate energy, and can even produce food, maximising the potential of our precious water resources.
Professor Kiran Tota-Maharaj is a distinguished engineer, academic, and environmental leader whose career is dedicated to advancing sustainable water resources management.
Currently, Professor of Water Resources Management and Infrastructure at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) and Technical Director for Water, Wastewater and Environmental Engineering at the Water Research Centre Ltd (WRc), he effectively bridges industry and academia through collaborative research, practice, and education.
Andy Brackhall will be presenting on the following topic: River Deep, Mountain AI: Research Driven, Artificial Intelligence for a Sustainable Future.
Currently, Andy is Managing Director at the Water Research Centre (WRc).
He is an Environmental Scientist, with a background in Automotive Engineering.
He holds a Master’s in Business and is a Chartered Director.
Come along to hear their extensive knowledge of water operations and learn about innovative solutions for sustainable water resource management.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/job-portal:
Welcome to our Jobs Portal for the RAC/RAU Alumni community.
Whilst our University Careers Services continues to offer guidance and career advice to current students and recent graduates, the Alumni Jobs Portal provides a platform for alumni to connect to one another and advertise job postings.
If you would like us to post your job, please email alumni@rau.ac.uk with the name of the company, role, link to the posting and application deadline.
All job postings will connect you to the employer.
Please submit your CV and contact the employer directly if you have any questions.
Senior Heritage Building Surveyor – London, Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, London, Sheffield
Agricultural Graduates (Zimbabwean students or alumni)
Other ways that RAU can support you include:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/make-a-donation:
Thank you for your consideration!
The University has charitable status and 100% of your donation will go your selected cause.
Can you please help?
Alternatively, you can send a cheque, made payable to the ‘Royal Agricultural University’ or call the Development & Alumni Office on 01285 889858 to request details for a bank transfer directly into RAU bank account.
You are also warmly welcome to visit the RAU to discuss your donation in person.
Thank you to all our donors and alumni volunteers, we greatly appreciate your support.
The Royal Agricultural University is an exempt charity, meaning that all gifts can be made tax-effectively.
Leaving a legacy for the future - after taking care of family and friends, a gift to the Royal Agricultural University in your will can help generations to come, please contact the Development Office on 01285 889858 for further information.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/forms/alumni-contact-details:
Update your details
We love to stay in touch with our graduates and alumni.
Please ensure that your contact details are up to date.
We use the information you provide to let you know about all the latest news, exclusive events and benefits available to the RAC/RAU alumni as well as opportunities to support your University.
Data submitted via this form will be handled in line with the Royal Agricultural University information management policies and our Alumni privacy notice.
Your details
Home address
Contact details
Due to our email service, we cannot accept role based or generic emails (info@, sales@, office@, etc).
Please provide a personal email address.
We apologise for this inconvenience.
Business information

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/landmark-magazine:
Landmark magazine is the annual news review of the Royal Agricultural University, received by alumni and friends of the University worldwide.
It features profiles of former students, along with all the latest news from the campus and details about the key research & consultancy being carried out by members of staff.
Landmark Issue 22
Introduction
RAU News
Enterprise
International
Industry
On Campus
If you do not already receive your annual copy of the award winning Landmark Alumni magazine, or your details have changed, please contact us so we may add you to our database.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/alumni-profiles:
Lewis Steer (RAU alumnus) and Flora Searson founded The Dartmoor Shepherd in 2016 after graduating.
Lewis was part of the enterprise society at the RAU which gave him a great launch pad into starting his own business.
They are both first and foremost shepherds tending to their 800 strong flock of native Dartmoor sheep on rented ground on Dartmoor.
As first-generation shepherds they both felt it was crucial to diversify to make a living from farming without having any land of their own.
They produce luxury high end sheepskin products from their own native flocks as well as supplying hotels and pubs with their slow grown, 100% pasture fed hogget.
Six years on and The Dartmoor Shepherd is going from strength to strength.
Last year they completed the construction of their own workshop where all their sheepskin products are manufactured.
They've opened a shop in Devon that retails all their sheepskin items as well as an online shop.
They also trade across the country at events such as Chelsea Flower Show, Badminton Horse Trials and Country Living Magazine's Christmas Fair.
The Dartmoor Shepherd team has recently grown from just the two of them, to now having five incredible employees.
After graduating from the RAU in 2019, Sophia travelled abroad to gain experience and insight to agriculture around the world.
She spent five months in Australia, split between working on an Outback cattle station and an ostrich farm, before crossing the ocean for the experience of a lifetime on a cattle ranch in Argentina.
What was initially planned as a six-week visit turned into a three month stay when the Covid-19 pandemic struck.
During her time Sophia was exposed to how cattle ranching operates in remote Argentina (- with the nearest town over 150km away), and was looked after by the gauchos developing skills and friendships along the way.
Two years later, in May 2022 after returning from her travels, Sophia launched her book 'Ride Like A Gaucho', sharing all her experiences and stories from her time with the gauchos.
Becca Wilson (RAU alumna) and Lizzie Mclaughlin set up their podcast a little over two years ago.
With Becca a fifth generation Yorkshire farmer and Lizzie a self-confessed townie from Middlesborough, the girls found conversation in their differences.
Wanting to combine their farming and non-farming perspectives, they decided to set up a podcast to ask the questions so their listeners don’t have to.
Becca says, “the strength of the podcast really has been in our differences.
Sometimes, consumers have questions about food, farming and the countryside which they worry about asking, but we’re here to help with that!”
Aiming to showcase to the public what really goes into producing our food, the stories behind our farms and the breadth of careers that are available in agriculture, the girls have featured some very recognisable faces.
Lizzie says “by speaking with well-known faces, it helps to bridge the gap with the public even more with this sense of familiarity.”
George is a cinematographer based in Nairobi, Kenya.
Having been working on wildlife and safari films throughout his time at the RAU, mainly in Kenya, he jumped on the first plane back out there when restrictions allowed.
This was when Leakey Studios took off, something which had been bubbling under the surface for a while.
The work George does really varies, but increasingly has been focused in the documentary space; whether that be people or wildlife, often with an adventure element to it.
When speaking with George he said: “The blessing of what we’re able to do is that the work for certain brands and companies allows us to shine the light in areas that we really care about.
This was the case with Muli, which we filmed in Majengo slum last year, where it was all off the back of a short script written by AC, Dennis Mwaura, and something we were able to press record on very quickly.
For us, it’s the responsibility that comes with having a camera and an audience.”

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/leaving-a-legacy:
The College would not have existed without the kindness of local landowners and friends who raised the funds to establish it, and throughout its history gifts left in Wills have had a transformative impact.
After taking care of family and friends, please do consider a gift in your Will to the Royal Agricultural University.
The RAU and the former Royal Agricultural College hold a special place in the hearts of many.
By choosing to remember us in your Will, you weave your name into the fabric of the University and become part of the RAU’s story for generations to come.
There are many ways in which your gift can make a real and lasting difference.
Supporting the next generation
Your legacy could ensure that the brightest and best students can benefit from first-class teaching, whatever their circumstances, by providing scholarships, grants and awards for academic excellence.
Changing lives through research
Our researchers are focused on finding solutions to the global challenges of today – and tomorrow.
Your gift could help to find the answers.
Protecting our heritage and planning for the future
Our buildings and grounds are among the most beautiful in the UK and a central part of the student experience.
Your gift could help to safeguard and develop these stunning natural environments for future generations.
We’ve produced some suggested wording for your Will.
We ask that you include our Exempt Charity reference and address, as this ensures that any sum left to the University is free of inheritance tax.
Exempt charity reference: (2019/586)
Address: Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 6JS
• Whenever you write or update your Will, we strongly recommend that you seek professional advice from a legal advisor.
• A residuary gift maintains its real value in relative terms, regardless of inflation: “I give to the Royal Agricultural University a gift of all [or a percentage or share of your estate] after allowing for expenses, pecuniary and specific bequests.”
• A pecuniary gift is a gift of a fixed sum of money.
Please be aware that because of inflation, the value of the gift may reduce over time, which may require the Will to be updated at a later date: “I give to the Royal Agricultural University the sum of [in figures and in words] free from all taxes and duties, to be applied to the general purposes [or your preferred area] of the University and I declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other authorised officer for the time being of the University shall be good and sufficient discharge to my Executors.”
For more information or to discuss your gift, please contact Julia Jenkins at julia.jenkins@rau.ac.uk or 01285 889858.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/forms/alumni-class-notes:
Landmark Class Notes
We are introducing a new 'Class Notes' section within our digital Landmark edition focused on you, our RAC/RAU alumni.
Do you have any news to share?
Perhaps a new job role or have you moved abroad?
Have you published an article or been featured in a publication?
Or maybe you have retired, received an award or become a member of an organisation?
Please fill in this form by 31 August 2025 for consideration.
Thank you!
By submitting this form, I give permission for this to be published in the digital Landmark edition at the discretion of the Royal Agricultural University Alumni office.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/sustainability/campus-competition:
With the completion of our fantastic new labs – and demolition of the old labs in progress– we are now inviting alumni, staff and students to submit ideas of how we can make the most of the Green Quad space, in the heart of our campus.
With our sustainability goals in mind, do you have thoughts and ideas how this area could be reimagined?
All ideas are welcome.
The deadline is 10 October 2025.
Please submit your ideas to competitions@rau.ac.uk
The top prize is £500!
The top prize has been donated by Mr Martin Stanley, who also kindly funded the installation of the GAIA photography exhibition ‘We Feed The World’ at the RAU, which is on permanent loan.
View Terms & Conditions of the competition.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/contact-us-faqs:
Our team is here to support you and keep you in the loop regarding ways to stay connected to the University.
If we can be of help, please get in touch!
Connect with us on the Official RAU Alumni social channels:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/alumni/verification-for-third-parties:
Third party enquirers such as employers, agencies and embassies must verify attendance and awards from our university with Prospects Hedd.
A Hedd verification confirms the candidate’s name, qualification type, course name, year of award, classification obtained and dates of attendance.
Please visit www.hedd.ac.uk to register.
There is a small charge for each enquiry and you must provide the written consent of the individual.
To prevent delays, please enter the candidate’s details as they appear on their degree certificate.
Enquiries are checked and completed by the university’s registry team.
The due date will be listed on your enquiry.
If you require further assistance, please email heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/video-transcripts-campus-tour:
Today, we’re going to give you a bit of a campus tour, just so you have a bit of an idea what it’s like to be a student here.
So right now, we’re walking up the main driveway it is absolutely beautiful, and this is the Main Building and you can see our gorgeous clock tower.
Students love to get their photos taken here, especially on graduation day which you can really look forward to if you come.
As far as they eye can see is all the Royal Ag so you get to adventure out, go in the field, spend time with your friends, and during the winter months when we get lots of snow, people actually sled down the hill in rucksacks, plastic bags, snowboards, everything.
We all have so much fun.
Right now, we’re walking through Coad and right behind us is West Lodge , and just on our left is a car park, so if you drive there’s car parking spaces right next to you and I have to mention the spaces are free.
Everything on campus is really close together, which is another reason why the students here are so close knit, because we all just live on top of each other.
Here we are at the Student Union.
The Student Union is really important, it’s the place that listens to our voices as students, they look out for us, they help us with absolutely anything we need.
And now we’re walking towards the lecture blocks.
On our left we have the Emerys Jones building.
So, this is the grass quad, it is absolutely beautiful, usually there is some fun activities here in your fresher's week, and it gives you the chance to get to know everyone.
And then straight in front is the Frank Garner lecture block where the tutors and the lecturers all live upstairs, and that’s where I usually have my lectures every day.
So, this is the Atrium and you can get lots of breakfast, lunch options, and there’s cold dinners also that you can buy from the little shop that’s just in the back on the left, and also here, on the left, in the middle of the room is a computer room, which is mostly used by third years but is open to everybody.
Just to our left is the Library and we have quiet zones and loud zones in the Library, so if you are doing lots of dissertation work, you have the chance of utter silence.
Straight in front of us now, is the church where we have absolutely beautiful carol services each year.
And if you want to join the choir, you are able to do that.
Then behind us is Porters Lodge, you can get your post there, its twenty-four-hour security and also first aid if you need it, its all there for you.
And then just to our left is the Tithe Barn, where on a Friday night we usually have a band or a DJ, usually a local band and it's so much fun.
In to our left is the student lounge, and in there alcohol is strictly prohibited, so if you’re not really the partying type, kind of like me, you get to go in there and it’s just a really relaxing place to hang out.
Just behind us is part of the Main Building, the clock tower is up there, but into our right is the Dining Room and the food is really really nice, they do great Sunday roasts.
So here to our right is a beautiful, beautiful lawn where you can have little picnic parties, some people play croquet there in the summer and just past the hedges is post grad accommodation, so some undergrads live there too but it is nice to have just a bit more privacy when you are a mature student.
And in to our right is the main building, so it really is such a small campus, everything is together, so you can’t get lost.
Just in front of us is a cricket pitch, there is also a rugby pitch, at the back there is tennis courts.
Rugby is really popular here so quite regularly the rugby is played absolutely everywhere.
This was our campus tour, I hope I was able to show you guys everything you needed and hopefully we will be able to see you all in September.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/access-agreements-and-access-and-participation-plans:
Please select the relevant Access and Participation Plan, Fee Summary or Impact Report for the year that you are interested in from the list shown.
This includes the RAU's most recent Access and Participation Plan for the academic years 2020-21 to 2024-25, with variations for 2023-24.
An accessible summary of the plan is also provided.
Access and Participation Plans are approved by the Office for Students , which began its work in April 2018.
Prior to this, Access Agreements up to and including 2018-19 were approved by the Office for Fair Access (OFFA).

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/professor-kiran-tota-maharaj:
Professor Kiran Tota-Maharaj is the distinguished new Professor of Water Resources Management and Infrastructure at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU).
Prof.
Tota-Maharaj arrives with a rich academic background, having previously served as an Associate Dean (External Engagement) and Reader in Water and Environmental Engineering at Aston University Birmingham, and formerly the Head of Civil and Environmental Engineering at University of the West of England Bristol (UWE Bristol).
He is also the Technical Director for Water, Wastewater and Environmental Engineering at the Water Research Centre (WRc Group), Swindon, England, UK, leading on collaborative research, practice, and education between RAU and WRc.
Tota-Maharaj is a resourceful, committed and results orientated Professional Engineer, Academic Leader and Environmental Champion with valuable experience and a consistent record of success, facilitating in-depth and applied research, improving processes, analysing data, and delivering results across Civil, Chemical, Mechanical and Environmental Engineering.
Kiran is a  committed engineer, scientist and academic, passionate about ensuring an up to date, personal knowledge of specialist subject matter and with a genuine passion for teamwork, scholarly activity, and leadership.
Tota-Maharaj is a  strategic thinker, able to assess needs and develop bespoke research methodologies and highly capable of proposing innovative engineering solutions and effective re-direction to teams/colleagues when tackling complex problems.
He is an innovative professional, with adept engineering and project management skills and proven ability to build and maintain key relationships at all levels, translating requirements and overseeing all issues through to completion.
Professor Tota-Maharaj's expertise and leadership have gained his recognition as a prominent engineer and practitioner within the water resources management community throughout the Caribbean as well as the UK.
Throughout his academic and industry career, Prof.
Tota-Maharaj has established himself as a leading expert in the fields of environmental engineering, renewable energy systems and water resources management.
His research focuses on innovative solutions for sustainable water resource management, integration of clean energy/renewable energy and environmental engineering principles in a circular economy.
Kiran's passion for environmental engineering, sustainability and circular economies has been a key driving force throughout his career.
Tota-Maharaj's scholarly activities include developing innovative and novel solutions for managing water resources and improving critical infrastructure to ensure a sustainable future for generations to come.
His work has been instrumental in advancing the understanding of urban/sub-urban water systems, sustainable drainage systems (SuDS), Nature-Based solutions (NbS) and blue/green-infrastructure, contributing to sustainable societies with an ecological engineering foot-print future for all.
Kiran Tota-Maharaj's appointment represents a strategic move towards furthering the university's commitment to excellence in Water-Energy-Food (WEF) Nexus with industry partners WRc.
RAU is now well-positioned to make meaningful contributions from Kiran's expertise and experience to the WEF Nexus fields, addressing critical challenges related to water sustainability.
With a deep commitment to industry, education and research, Prof.
Tota-Maharaj is dedicated to mentoring, nurturing, and training the next generation of water resource professionals.
His appointment at the RAU signifies a new chapter in his esteemed career, where he will continue to inspire staff and students, contributing valuable insights to the field of water resources management and infrastructure.
Water-Energy-Food-(WEF) Nexus: - Understanding the interconnections and trade-offs between water, food, and energy systems - Developing sustainable solutions and technologies to optimize resource use within the nexus - Assessing the impact of climate change on the water-food-energy nexus
Water and Environmental Engineering / Stormwater Management: - Novel approaches for contaminant removal in potable water treatment and stormwater remediation processes, such as emerging pollutants, runoff and microplastics - Implementing advanced oxidation processes for water/stormwater treatment and disinfection - Developing sustainable and cost-effective technologies for access to sustainable water resources in limited/challenging settings.
- Applications of Solar Photocatalytic (Advanced Oxidation Processes) for the degradation of pollutants in water and wastewater - Ultrasonic treatment systems for microbiological control of water system - Desalination, Forward osmosis and osmotic processes for water reuse and wastewater treatment.
- Membrane bioreactors (MBR) and combining membrane processes such as Nanofiltration and Ultrafiltration for municipal and wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Engineering and Hydrogen Energy: - Advancements in wastewater treatment technologies for energy recovery, including hydrogen production - Exploring the potential of microbial electrolysis cells for hydrogen generation from wastewater - Investigating the environmental and economic implications of integrating wastewater treatment and hydrogen production processes
Soil Science, Soil/Water Engineering and Remediation Best Practices: - Studying soil-water interactions and their influence on contaminant transport and fate - Investigating bioremediation strategies for soil and groundwater contamination - Assessing the effectiveness of natural and engineered solutions for soil and groundwater remediation.
- Development of novel advanced oxidation processes and photocatalytic treatment technologies for the depollution of soil and water contaminants and impurities - Sustainable drainage systems (SuDS), Green Infrastructure (permeable pavements, engineered wetlands, biofilters, bio-reeds) combined with ground-source heat pumps (GSHPs) & water-sourced heat pumps (WSHPs)
Sustainable Water Resources Management: - Integrated water resources management for sustainable development - Water governance and policy frameworks for equitable water distribution systems - Climate change mitigation strategies for water scarcity and drought resilience - Transport phenomena of emerging contaminants (microplastics) and microbiological pollutants in drainage systems - Water distribution networks & water demand modelling - 3-D printing of Critical Infrastructure within Water & Wastewater Industries
Environmental Monitoring and Assessment: - Development of sensor technologies for real-time water and wastewater quality monitoring - Integration of remote sensing and GIS techniques for environmental assessment - Environmental impact assessments for infrastructure development projects 7.
Eco-friendly Infrastructure and Ecological Engineering: - Nature-based solutions for water management and ecosystem restoration - Green infrastructure design for stormwater management and urban resilience - Life cycle assessment of infrastructure projects for environmental sustainability
Emerging Contaminants and Risk Assessment: - Investigation of emerging pollutants in water systems (e.g., pharmaceuticals, microplastics) - Risk assessment of chemical contaminants on human health and ecosystems - Remediation strategies for emerging contaminants using advanced technologies.
Microbial Fuel Cells & bioelectricity production for wastewater management and renewable energy integration:  Feasibility of Bioelectrochemical Systems (BES): Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) and microbial electrolysis cells (MECs)
MBA in Water Management

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/university-professor-recognised-rspca-assured-having-made:
A professor of animal health and welfare, who has worked as a trustee for RSPCA Assured for the last decade, has been awarded the charity’s prestigious Queen Victoria Silver Medal.
Professor David Main, who is Pro Vice-Chancellor, Academic Planning and Resources, at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) in Cirencester, has been given the award in recognition of his work as a core member of the RSPCA Assured Board and the charity he had “made significant contributions to improving the lives of farm animals in the UK”.
Having originally trained and practised as a veterinary surgeon, Professor Main worked at Bristol Veterinary School before joining the RAU as Professor of Animal Health and Welfare in 2018, becoming Pro Vice-Chancellor in 2022.
He has also recently completed his tenure as Chair of the Home Office Animals in Science Committee.
He said: “I am really delighted to have received this award as a reflection of my passion for the values of RSPCA Assured in driving animal welfare.
“Having completed my tenure as a Board member, I am looking forward to supporting the Assured programme as it delivers its strategic ambition to achieve 50% of UK production in RSPCA Assured membership.”
Vice Chair of RSPCA Assured, and former Chair of the RSPCA, Rene Oliveri said: “David has played a central role in the development of AssureWel, a collaboration between the RSPCA and the Soil Association that introduced welfare outcomes into certification schemes.
“Similarly, he was a lead investigator for the Healthy Feet Project that has been widely adopted by the UK dairy industry, and also project co-ordinator for Hennovation, an EU H2020 project that pioneered participatory approaches to innovation in the laying hen sector.
“Both AssureWel and Healthy Feet have led not just to dramatic improvements in the lived experiences of generations of farmed animals, but to paradigm shifts in the way the food and farming sector measures animal welfare.”
Helen Browning, Chief Executive of the Soil Association and an Honorary Fellow of the RAU, added: “David has been a powerful and effective advocated for farm animal welfare for decades.
His special contribution has been through professional knowledge and an evidence-led approach.
"He has championed breakthrough work on welfare outcome assessments and projects, such as dairy lameness, which take a holistic view of the factors that can drive improvements.
I’ve learned much from working with him.”
Dame Fiona Reynolds is the Chair of the RAU’s Governing Council and a Life Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
She said: “As Pro Vice-Chancellor at the RAU, David has led wholesale reviews of our academic curriculum – including, but wider than, his academic specialism as a veterinary scientist – to ensure that it fully embraces 21st century ambitions for sustainability, animal welfare, and climate and nature resilience.
“He’s an inspiring teacher and an academic who has breathed new life into the institution, transforming the RAU’s hitherto conventional approaches to teaching and research and creating a vibrant, energetic, curious environment in which students, teachers, and researchers flourish.”

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/news-and-events/events/university-unveils-stunning-new-sculpture-celebrate-its-180th:
Seventeen-year-old Harlan Beales, who is currently studying for an extended diploma in Art, Design and Creative Practice at Hereford College of Arts, designed the sculpture, which has been named Aries, in tandem with former RAU student Will Carr before fabricating it by himself.
Aries was recently unveiled by RAU Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter McCaffery at a special lunch held at the Cirencester-based University which was founded in 1845 as the first agricultural college in the English-speaking world.
Harlan explained: “Will and I worked together on the design - he was able to make 3D projections and I made two paper models to get the scale right.
I used Will’s workshop, getting guidance from Will and his fabricator at key points during the build.
“It is made from 6mm steel rods which Will had on his farm.
Our initial plan was to make it using old bits of farm machinery and plough parts, but it looked so beautiful when we’d just welded the rods that we decided to leave it as it was.
“It has been amazing for me to have been involved with this.
I’ve made smaller pieces before but this is the first large scale sculpture I’ve made.
I’m excited that it will be at the RAU forever!
My aunt lives in Cirencester so I can visit the sculpture whenever I come to see her.”
Will Carr, who had previously studied Civil and Environmental Engineering at Nottingham University, joined the RAU in 2015 to study for a Graduate Diploma in Agriculture before taking on his family’s 200-hectare mixed, arable, and beef farm in the village of Weobley near Hereford.
Alongside running the farm, Will has made a successful sculpture business, employing two people, and has sold sculptures across the world, including to the United States and Australia, and public sculptures across the UK.
In 2015 he made a Barley Ears sculpture for the RAU’s 170th anniversary which now stands overlooking the University’s Bathurst Lawn.
He said: “I felt very honoured to be asked to make another piece for the RAU after the success after the Barley Ears which I made for the University’s 170th, and this time it was great to be able to work alongside Harlan – we worked really well as a team.
“For the last six years I have been mainly concentrating on kinetic sculptures, that move in the wind, and more abstract sculptures so it was really nice to have the opportunity to go back to a more figurative style.
“The joined metal bars of Aries symbolise the interconnected mesh of human brains coming together, very like at this University, where information is shared making a joint neural network.”
RAU Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter McCaffery said: ““As we celebrate our 180th anniversary we ae immensely proud of the contribution our 17,000+ alumni have made as leaders, entrepreneurs and innovators to agriculture and the land-based sector.
“The Aries sculpture is a fitting tribute to the creativity, ingenuity, and commitment to sustainability that characterises our students today.”
To celebrate its 180th anniversary, the institution - which now has around 1,100 students at its Cirencester campus as well as more than 3,000 studying worldwide with its many international partners - has a calendar of events taking place throughout the year including a series of special free public lectures, the opening of the University’s new £5.8m land laboratories, a Community Open Day, and a global online party for the University to celebrate with its international partners.
For more details of all the RAU’s 180th anniversary events, and to book a place at one of the 180th anniversary free public lectures, please visit https://www.rau.ac.uk/about-rau/why-rau/180-years .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/campus-accessibility:
The Royal Agricultural University is situated on the outskirts of the market town of Cirencester.
During the summer months, accommodation is available for short breaks.
All year round, the University is available for weddings, functions, parties and day meetings.
There are a number of ground floor rooms located close to the dining areas and accessible meeting, function rooms and lecture theatres available for hire.
Local public transport numbers:
Local accessible taxi numbers:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/living-off-campus-in-accommodation-rented-by-you:
We want students who choose to live in Cirencester and surrounding areas to find appropriate accommodation, to integrate with the community and to stay safe.
You are encouraged to do some online research and seek advice before you commit to renting a property off-campus.
If you have any housing or tenancy concerns, call Health Assured’s FREE 24/7 Student Helpline on: 0800 028 3766.
Health Assured’s Student Assistance Programme can also help you with disputes between you and your housemates!
Off campus accommodation charges vary depending on the type of room or house rented.
Charges for a one-bedroom flat or room in a shared house range from £400 - £500 per month.
Utilities such as gas, water and electricity may be an additional cost.
This table gives an estimate of the living costs that you may incur while at university.
Remember that costs vary depending on your lifestyle and international students should also take into account flights or transportation to and from the UK.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/explore-our-halls-of-residence:
Bledisloe Court is divided into six houses on three levels.
Some of these single on-campus rooms enjoy views across farmland towards the village of Coates.
Each house has nine or ten standard, single bedrooms with a wash basin and shared toilet and shower facilities.
There are 59 rooms in total.
Bledisloe does not have a common room, however, students have access to the Student Lounge and Tithe Barn to socialise in.
Coad Court is located centrally on-campus within the accommodation buildings and is split into 11 houses.
These large, bright single bedrooms - some with stunning country views - are either single en-suite or standard single rooms including their own wash basins, with access to shared toilet and shower facilities.
Ground floor rooms are available with accessible facilities.
There are 44 en-suite and nine standard rooms in total.
Coad Court does not have a common room, however, students have access to the Student Lounge and Tithe Barn to socialise in.
Accessible facilities are available.
Vic Hughes Hall 1 is a self-catered on-campus block on the edge of campus, containing 26 en-suite bedrooms, some of which are accessible.
Vic Hughes Hall 2 is a half board block on the edge of campus, with 26 en-suite bedrooms and a small shared lounge area on the ground floor.
This on-campus self-catered block contains 58 en-suite single bedrooms divided across two halls with the added comfort of under-floor heating provided by the University biomass boiler.
There is a spacious shared lounge and fully fitted kitchen on each floor.
Woodlands Lodge 1 has seven half board, large, en-suite rooms on the top floor and six self-catered, large, en-suite rooms with a newly fitted kitchen and lounge on the ground floor.
The lounge area is shared by all residents.
Any applicant requiring a quieter space will be allocated accordingly.
Woodlands Lodge 2 offers large half board en-suite bedrooms over two storeys, with a shared lounge and basic kitchenette.
Woodlands Lodge 3 has small half board en-suite bedrooms, located close to the main teaching blocks.
Please note that Woodlands 3 doesn't have its own lounge.
Find the accommodation on our Campus Map .
See our accommodation fees .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/accommodation/how-to-apply:
The RAU Accommodation Hub is now open for applications from students who are planning to join us in September 2025.
All applications will need to be made via the online Applicants portal and you will receive instructions on how to access this once you have been offered a place to study at the Royal Agricultural University.
To secure your accommodation please visit the Applicants Portal myRAU and choose Accommodation Hub.
To log into myRAU you will need your Student ID number and your password.
Your password was initially set to your date of birth in the format DD/MM/YYYY and you would have been prompted to change your password on your first visit.
To help avoid technical issues, please use a laptop or computer on Chrome when applying.
Once you complete the following you will receive confirmation of your application completion:
If you are under 18 and wish to apply for accommodation on campus please contact accommodation@rau.ac.uk and we will send you an RAU Parental Declaration form.
International students will need to pay the accommodation fees in full before 1 September 2025.
Please be assured that your preferences have been recorded in date order in our system.
You will be sent an email once the Portal is open and have 10 days to submit your application online to secure your reservation.
Once your application submission has been processed by the Accommodation Team, you will receive your provisional room offer and accommodation contract.
Please read all Terms and Conditions carefully before accepting and securing your place.
You will then be required to pay a deposit of £300 and set up your Payment plan.
You should receive your confirmation of accommodation by the end of August, which you will need to accept or decline within 14 days.
Once you have confirmed your accommodation offer, we will contact you with further details such as hall of residence, how to pay, and the Terms and Conditions of Residency.
If you accept your university residence, the contract will be for a minimum of one full academic year.
If you fail to meet the necessary requirements, please inform accommodation@rau.ac.uk as soon as possible, and you will be released from your contract and your deposit will be refunded.
For Academic year 2025-26 we are now also able to offer postgraduate students short term stays on a ‘room only’ basis in our Main Building.
Catered rooms are available for those staying over three weeks.
These rooms are subject to availability so please contact shortstay@rau.ac.uk regarding any queries, in advance of your proposed dates.
We can also help you find accommodation in Cirencester and the surrounding area.
For more information, please email us at accommodation@rau.ac.uk .
Accommodation

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/accommodation-faqs:
Look at your budget, you will see that there are a variety of room types available at the RAU at different costs; you will need to choose a room that is affordable for you.
Have a think about whether you would be happy sharing your toilet and showering facilities or whether you would prefer your own en-suite bathroom.
If you decide that you would like to share a room with another student please contact accommodation@rau.ac.uk as we do have a limited number of twin rooms available.
Price to be discussed at the time of communication.
We endeavour to offer all first-year undergraduate students accommodation on campus; however, we cannot guarantee this.
Accommodation applications are dealt with on a first come, first served basis so it is vital that you apply for accommodation online via myRAU at the earliest possible opportunity.
We have a limited number of rooms in a quiet block on campus (half board only) and, whilst there is not such a strong demand for these, they are also dealt with on a first come, first served basis.
If you are not allocated accommodation on campus, the accommodation office will support you in finding alternative accommodation in Cirencester or the surrounding villages.
myRAU will ask you to list the room types on offer in order of your preference; you then have the opportunity to choose your catering type.
Every effort is made to allocate you your first choice of room type (taking into consideration your preferred halls of residence); however as accommodation applications are dealt with on a first come, first served basis, if all of the rooms are allocated, you will be allocated your second choice and so on.
A £300 deposit will be requested on receipt of your provisional room offer.
The deposit will be non-refundable in the event of a withdrawal from a place at the RAU.
However, if a place is still conditional and conditions of the offer are not met, the deposit will be refunded.
Please have a look at the accommodation charges .
Most of our accommodation is catered so the outgoings you will need to budget for will include payment of toiletries, travel, clothes laundering, etc.
UK students can pay in three term instalments if a payment plan is set up on the student portal at the beginning of the year.
EU and International students will be required to make payment upfront and it is advised that this payment is made prior to their travel to the Royal Agricultural University.
Our accommodation contracts are for 35 weeks.
For catered accommodation, you will have three weeks over the Christmas period and two weeks at Easter when the full catering facilities associated with residency are not available and therefore no meal plan charges are made.
Where you have requested catering then you will receive a daily credit on your Unicard to pay for your meals.
To change your catering arrangement please email accommodation@rau.ac.uk .
Changes to your accommodation and catering can only be requested at the end of the term.
All bedrooms are fully decorated and furnished to include a single bed with a mattress protector, desk, chair, bedside table, clothes hanging space, wall mirror, notice board, lamp, curtains, Wi-Fi connection for PC/laptop (you will need to register all computers upon arrival before you can access the internet).
We do not supply any bedding to UK students.
You might like to bring: hand sanitiser and essential cleaning products, alarm clock, bedding and bed linen, clothes airer, laundry basket, coat hangers, towels, hairdryer, mini fridge, coat, waterproofs, wellies, throw and cushions, rug, blanket.
If you are in self-catered you may like to bring your own cutlery, crockery and mugs, extension lead, laptop/desktop PC, printer, TV/DVD player and TV licence, TV aerial/cable.
Please ensure that all of your portable electrical appliances are PAT tested prior to arrival and carry an up-to-date PAT sticker.
We provide a PAT service for any new items brought in throughout the year.
Please email estates@rau.ac.uk .
Heater, electrical cooking items e,g, toaster/sandwich maker, candles, blu tac (you are requested not to stick/pin or glue items to the walls in your accommodation), extension leads (these can be supplied on request from the Estates office), heaters, any item that involves a naked flame.
The arrival date for first year students will be Sunday 21 September 2025.
Unless alternative arrangements have been made.
Yes, you may access the internet from your computer/laptop with a network cable, or by connecting to the university's Wi-Fi network (providing your anti-virus software is up-to-date).
If you’d like to access the Wi-Fi through your smartphone or tablet, you will first need to register the device with IT Services.
Yes, if you bring a TV or laptop which you can use to watch TV programmes you must purchase a TV licence (the easiest way being through the TV Licensing website).
No, the University has a smoking ban in all of its buildings, including student residences.
You may have one guest to stay for up to three nights in your room.
You must notify Accommodation prior to their arrival and fill in a responsibility form at Porter's Lodge.
You will be fully responsible for your guest and they should remain in your company for the duration of their stay.
We have a shop on campus selling stationery, books, food and drink, toiletries, RAU clothing and gifts.
It is a 20-minute walk into Cirencester town centre which has a huge variety of shops.
Yes, located between Bledisloe Court and Coad Court.
This is for use by resident and non-resident students.
The machines are not cash operated, all machines work via an app that you can download on your mobile phone from www.circuit.co.uk .
If you don't have an IOS or Android phone you can purchase laundry cards from the Porter's Lodge.
Yes, bins are available in each hall of residence and there are a variety of recycling bins on the campus.
Yes, during the normal working week you will have the support of the student services manager, accommodation officer, tutors and, on published days the university nurse.
Out of hours, the Porter's Lodge and security staff are available on the following numbers:
All maintenance and damage issues should be reported via email to accommodation@rau.ac.uk , or in case of an urgent need/emergency, report to the Accommodation and Estates admin office in Old House.
Any damage left unreported will become the responsibility of the resident and you will be charged for it.
You will have access to your room for the full academic year, whether you choose to stay during the Christmas and Easter breaks, or just leave some of your belongings, is up to you.
If you choose to stay on campus during either break – please inform accommodation@rau.ac.uk .or inform Porters Lodge/Security if you are ‘popping on to’ campus over the Easter and Christmas holidays.
During the Christmas break there are no facilities (including the Minibus service) or staff on campus, except Security in Porter's Lodge 24/7.
It is important that Accommodation know if you are staying over this period, so that any necessary arrangements can be made.
If you choose to terminate your contract prior to the contracted date of the agreement (to move to an alternative residence, withdraw from studies, attend a sandwich placement or another reason), then you will remain liable for all charges associated with the accommodation.
A refund of the remainder of the accommodation fee will only be made once a suitable replacement resident is found, who is not already a resident on campus, who meets with the approval of the Accommodation Office.
There is a wealth of privately owned accommodation in Cirencester and the surrounding villages.
Please contact the Students’ Union and Student Services teams for additional signposting to information from private landlords and other students.
Talk to current students to find out where they are living and what are the best areas and most accessible to the University and town centre.
You can also look at https://www.rau.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation-and-campus/living-off-campus-in-accommodation-rented-by-you where you will find links to current local letting agents.
The campus is only a short walk from some of the residential areas of Cirencester.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/applying/ucas-application-process-and-personal-statements:
This presentation has been put together by the Student Recruitment and Outreach team in October 2020.
Watching the following video will give an introduction to the UCAS application process and how to write personal statements which may be of interest to school/college students, teachers and parents.
For further information please contact outreach@rau.ac.uk .
You may like to read more about applying to the RAU and find out more about studying at the RAU by booking onto an undergraduate open day .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/transparency-return:
While we have comparatively high levels of diversity in our postgraduate community, recruitment to the undergraduate programmes has traditionally come from those who reside within English rural communities, which are not diverse.
The RAU is in a unique position to be able to address access for underrepresented groups within rural communities.
Widening participation is a strategic goal for the University and our aim is to grow and diversify our student community.
We aim to increase participation and social mobility, particularly from:
We are committed to implementing a programme of change, enabling the RAU to recruit students from a wide and diverse range of backgrounds; to ensure that they flourish and succeed academically, that they are well equipped to progress to employment, start their own business, or engage in further study.
Having identified our aims, we are developing a wide range of inputs to help us achieve our outcomes over the short medium and longer term.
This will result in our achieving our first RAU strategic aim as set out in the Access and Participation Plan (APP) 2020-21 to 2024-25.
This is illustrated in the logic chain below.
Aims
(e.g.
to achieve a more diverse student community)
Input
(action and activities e.g.
outreach activities)
Outcomes
short, medium and longer term e.g.
achievement of APP milestones)
Impact
(achievement of access, success and progression aims)
The information on these pages shows:
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
It is important to note that the data presented has not been contextualised.
This means, for example, that you will not be able to see from this data how many of those applying to courses met the entry criteria.
It is also the case that universities and colleges will often receive many more applications than they have spaces on courses and so offer rates will necessarily be lower than application rates in those circumstances.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/rau-bursary-stream-1:
To be eligible for this bursary, you must:
There is no need to complete an application form.
Eligibility is assessed by the University using the financial information you have shared with Student Finance England/Wales.
As a result, you would need to have your Student Finance loan approved by 15 August 2025.
Students will be notified by letter provided via the Bursary Administration Service from Student Finance England/Wales.
If you receive the RAU Bursary (Stream 1) in your first year, you are guaranteed to receive the RAU Bursary (Stream 1) in subsequent years of your course, providing you are academically successful.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/rau-bursary-stream-2:
You must also meet a minimum of one of the following:
If you receive a Support Bursary in your first year, you are guaranteed to receive the Bursary in subsequent years of your course, providing you are academically successful.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/next-generation-scholarship:
To be eligible for this scholarship, you must:
An offer will be conditional based on information already provided in your UCAS application, including grades, reference and contextual information.
Please apply using the online application form .
All applications must be received by 6:00pm, 11 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/clyde-higgs-postgraduate-scholarship:
To be eligible for this award you must:
All applications must be received by 6:00pm, 12 September 2025 .
All applicants will be informed in writing of the outcome, once a decision has been made and no later than the end of September 2025.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/sir-emrys-jones-memorial-trust-undergraduate-award:
Sir Emrys Jones was Principal of the Royal Agricultural College from 1974 to 1979.
He forged strong links with industry and oversaw significant developments in educational standards and facilities at the College.
The Sir Emrys Jones Memorial Trust Scholarships were established in 2004 and have been supporting students with Welsh connections through their education at the Royal Agricultural College/University to the present day.
Applicants must be able to evidence at least one of the following in their application:

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/kaleb-cooper-agriculture-bursary:
To support this aim, Kaleb launched a bursary at the Royal Agricultural University, contributing £3,000 to a successful applicant who wants to pursue a career in Agriculture, which could be supplemented by a placement with Kaleb and/or his industry partners.
Please complete the application form and return to: development@rau.ac.uk .
Students will be notified to let them know if their application has been shortlisted.
The shortlisted applications will be sent to Kaleb and his team who will make the final decision.
The winners will be announced week commencing Monday 8 December 2025, more details about this to follow.
For further information, please email: development@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/prof-barry-dent-scholarship:
Professor Dent was Principal of the Royal Agricultural College (RAC), now the Royal Agricultural University (RAU), from 1997 until 2002.
Before joining the RAC, his career took him and his family around the world and, while in New Zealand, he was Professor of Farm Management and Rural Valuation at Lincoln College, now Lincoln University, near Christchurch on New Zealand’s South Island, and became Director of the Agribusiness and Economics Research Unit (AERU), making a significant contribution to research and teaching at Lincoln.
This scholarship and international exchange honours Barry’s career at both institutions and it is hoped that this scholarship, which will be awarded annually, will provide an excellent opportunity for students to gain overseas experience as part of their degree studies.
It is hoped they will form networks for their future jobs and career and help forge a stronger relationship between the two institutions.
The international exchange will support students undertaking degrees relevant to agriculture in both the UK and New Zealand.
To express your interest, please fill in and submit an Application Form.
Applicants who are shortlisted will be contacted for an interview.
This scholarship is now closed for applications.
All applicants will be informed in writing of the outcome, once a decision has been made and no later than the end of June 2025 .
For further information about the exchange programme, please email: Philip.hudson@rau.ac.uk .
View Terms & Conditions .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/douglas-bomford-trust-scholarship:
The DBT Scholarship can be used to support student training, acquisition of equipment, a part of a dissertation project, and/or a complementary idea aligned with agricultural engineering and technology.
For examples of previous scholarships awarded, please visit the DBT website .
The DBT Scholarship is open to all FdSc and BSc Agriculture students at the Royal Agricultural University.
The successful scholarship recipient(s) may be awarded funds typically up to a maximum value of £1,500 for one year .
Higher payments can be made in exceptional circumstances.
The payment will be made in two equal parts; half to be paid in February 2025 and the balance in April 2025 .
The Trust may award up to four scholarships .
Scholarship is conditional on the scholar(s) remaining registered as a full-time student at the Royal Agricultural University.
The scholar(s) must pass all modules of study during their scholarship.
It is a mandatory requirement of the DBT that scholar(s) submit a report to the Trust advising them of how the scholarship has been spent before the second payment is made.
The Scholarship is a competitive award evaluated on the merit of the submitted application, academic achievements, and interview.
Shortlisted candidates will be interviewed by the DBT Scholarship panel, whose decision is FINAL and they reserve the right to withdraw the award at any time should they feel the conditions were not followed.
Please note this scholarship is not exclusive to the RAU.
Please read the Application Information Pack for full details.
Shortlisted applicants are required to attend a panel interview on Monday 27 January 2025 .
Please note that alternative interview dates cannot be arranged.
It is a mandatory requirement of the Douglas Bomford Trust that a scholarship recipient is required to submit a report back to the Trust advising them of how the scholarship has been spent.
For further information on this scholarship please contact: Karen Rial Lovera Karen.RialLovera@rau.ac.uk or the Development Office development@rau.ac.uk T: 01285 889858
For further information on the work of the Douglas Bomford Trust please visit: https://www.dbt.org.uk/ 9

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/agriculture-courses-video:
The opportunities the RAU has given me are beyond my wildest dreams.
It's given me the confidence to pursue a career in agriculture.
We have a three-year honours degree which includes the short placement and we have a four-year degree that includes a one-year placement.
There's such a family vibe, especially with the lecturers, they know who you are and they can tailor the lecturing to you.
You're a name not a number which I'm really enjoying, I really like the conversation you can have with your lecturers.
The areas we cover on the degree course will be farm management, accounts and finance, and human resource management, crop biology crop production, animal science, farm mechanization, innovation technology.
My favourite aspects of the course are going on farm walks, visiting the dairy units, looking at the requirements for the cows, looking at their living conditions and, that's been a really exciting process having the hands-on experience to then bring back to the classroom.
My favourite aspect of the course is the mix of teaching - one minute you're outside in the field, the next you're in the classroom, it's not for anybody particularly academic or particularly practical, it's a huge mix, so you get best of both worlds.
It's really interactive, you're always doing something, it's been really good.
We have an extensive network of farming businesses within 10, 20, 25 miles radius of the campus, some are more diversified, some are specialists, some are mixed farms, so they get a real insight into the broad spectrum of how farms are set up from an organizational perspective.
This is a specialist university they really focus on the nitty-gritty of agriculture, really give you that in-depth learning that you can expand to your future career in agriculture.
I'd say to a potential student that it's the best thing I've ever done.
I never looked back, I absolutely
love it and if they feel like they should do it, absolutely go for it.
[Music] [Applause]

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/disclaimer:
Please view our policies and procedures in our Student Handbook .
The information contained on this site relates primarily to the 2024/25 academic session.
The University will make reasonable efforts to deliver the courses as described on this site.
However, the University reserves the right to vary, merge or discontinue courses.
In the event of any fundamental changes or discontinuance to your course we will give you reasonable notice and you will be entitled to withdraw your application or withdraw from your course by telling us in writing.
The entry requirements shown on this site are indicative only and the University reserves the right to vary it's entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/rau-school-agriculture-food-and-environment:
I didn't have any doubts about coming here, because of the amount of farmers in Zimbabwe, they kept saying go to the Royal Agriculture University.
Not only have I met really fantastic friends, but I feel like I've made some good contacts here.
The common aim with our courses, is to set the bigger picture of the environment being the area in which we must all operate.
It's all about giving different experience, of different farming systems, under different environmental challenges and conditions.
What are the linkages?
What are the trade-offs, between food production, agriculture and the environment?
I think that's what I like about it so much, it's very much a discussion, so you get really involved and everybody says their opinion, and their insights, and it's really interesting.
The style of teaching here is a real blend of academic, applied and practical.
We actively encourage students from a farming background but we also actively encourage students from a non-farming background, people who are interested in solving challenges around climate change, biodiversity loss.
The modules teach you the content and then we've also had lecturers and other modules to teach us how to get into the real world.
We are trying to educate, enhance their professionalism, integrate them into the industry and make them feel like they are open to every challenge that society can afford them.
Facilities here are fantastic, they have a laboratory which we use for like seed sampling.
You learn everything about tractors, balers, combined harvesters, exactly what you need to know.
Having a qualification such as chainsaw Lantra, going into the land-based sector, they're absolutely crucial in identifying you as a useful employee.
After University it's a firm plan to use what I've learned here to do a great job of farming.
What I love is every day is different.
You don't sit down in a lecture hall every single day and learn about the same thing, each module is so different.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-agri-mgmt-top-up-modules:
Total of 120 credits
Led by Chris Brough, this module explores modern livestock nutrition, including precision feeding, sustainable feed resources, and nutrient utilisation.
Students critically assess diet formulation, feed efficiency, and product quality.
Assessment includes a 2000-word diet analysis and a 1000-word problem sheet, applying nutritional science to commercial livestock systems.
Led by Nicola Cannon, this module prepares students for careers in agronomy and crop protection.
It covers integrated pest management, pesticide safety, biosecurity, and sustainable crop health strategies.
Students explore biological control, diagnostics, and agrochemical innovations.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional practice report addressing a technical challenge involving a specific crop issue in a chosen country.
Led by David O’Connor, this cross-disciplinary module guides students through independent research, from proposal to final thesis.
Support includes lectures, tutorials, and workshops.
Assessment includes a 5-minute presentation and a 12,000-word thesis or equivalent multimedia portfolio, evaluating research design, data analysis, and critical synthesis.
Led by Emmanuel Zuza, this module explores the impacts of climate change on ecosystems and agriculture, with a focus on soil health and sustainable resource management.
Students examine mitigation strategies, regenerative agriculture, and the role of soil in achieving sustainability goals.
Assessment includes an online exam and an individual scientific poster on climate change impacts.
Led by Jessica Stokes, this module examines the integration of agricultural technologies and nature-based solutions within modern farming systems.
Topics include Agriculture 4.0, carbon reporting, urban farming, and data-driven decision-making.
Assessment includes two 1500-word reports: one evaluating a current nature-based solution, and one proposing an improved strategy through a case study.
Led by Philip Hudson, this module examines UK agri-food supply chains in a global context, focusing on performance, policy, and sustainability.
Students analyse food security, market structures, and policy interventions.
Assessment is a 3000-word essay evaluating a supply chain policy challenge aligned with SDG goals.
Led by David O’Connor, this content-free module supports independent, personalised study in a chosen specialist area.
Students engage with advanced scholarship and develop autonomous learning skills.
Assessment is an academic poster (A1 size) compiled from formative tasks using a patchwork text approach.
Led by Jenny Edwards, this module examines farm management strategies that balance productivity with environmental and social sustainability.
Students develop a comprehensive farm plan incorporating agroecological and agrotechnological approaches.
Assessment is a 3000-word coursework assignment, requiring a detailed farm management plan aligned with Net Zero and biodiversity goals.
Led by Nicola Cannon, this module investigates emerging technologies and practices in crop production, including regenerative systems and precision agriculture.
Students engage with industry experts and conduct field-based evaluations.
Assessment includes a 2500-word professional practice report and a 1000-word abstract summary of guest lectures and visits.
Led by Lisa Morgans, this module explores the impacts of livestock farming on health, welfare, and the environment, aligned with UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Topics include disease control, genetics, nutrition, and public health.
Assessment includes a 3000-word professional practice report with portfolio and a 10-minute presentation, evaluating farm-level data and policy influences.
Led by Tosin Lagoke, this module focuses on financial and strategic planning for small and medium-sized UK farm businesses.
Students analyse financial statements, evaluate business performance, and apply investment appraisal techniques.
Assessment includes two 1500-word professional practice reports: one on accounts analysis and one proposing solutions for business improvement.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/business-courses-video:
Life is governed by strategy and at every point in time you need somebody who can help you to develop your strategy in your business, and I tell my students something - you are going to be paid for your brains, you're going to be paid for the decisions you take based on your understanding of strategy.
I've done business for a number of years and specifically this university course in business I think has prepared me a lot better going into more of the nitty-gritty of business aspects, things like imports, exports, tariffs, all of that thing I knew it but I didn't know all the little fine bits, especially about agri-business.
(This should provide an answer to your research question.)
Our business courses are developed in such a way where students are able to apply theory to practice.
At the second year of the course students are able to go on a 15 week placement.
In addition to that students have the opportunity to take a one-ear long placement.
Whichever way it is, students are able to have that industry experience while they study.
We've got a host of facilities available, our partnership with local employers, students enjoy visits, they enjoy the opportunity to network and of course guest lectures.
In addition to this the RAU runs an entrepreneurship programme which is called Ignite.
Students have the opportunity to develop their entrepreneurial skills and ideas from start to finish.
RAU is big enough - we have good greenery to contain every student.
RAU is small enough, as a university to reach everyone.
A very beautiful serene environment where students can have you know a nice time.
There's a lot of things I enjoy about being here you know.
Firstly I've I've never come from a really big school, I've always been in quite small schools and having RAU quite small it means I know a lot of people from all the different age groups.
The lectures are also very flexible and the lecturers all have very flexible schedules with meetings, or you know just impromptu pop-ins, it's very accommodating, you will learn a lot about ag, you'll learn  a lot about business, you'll learn a lot about pretty much most things so I would say  absolutely go for it if you're considering it!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-business-mgmt-top-up-modules:
Led by Ayodeji Owoeye, this module covers core corporate finance topics including capital budgeting, investment appraisal, risk and return, portfolio theory, and market efficiency.
Students analyse financial strategies and valuation methods.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars, and online resources.
Assessment is a 3000-word case study analysis applying financial theory to strategic business decisions.
Led by Beverley Hill, this module explores negotiation as a persuasive and problem-solving communication skill.
Students study negotiation phases, techniques, and alternative models, developing advanced cognitive, emotional, and linguistic competencies.
Assessment is a 10-minute individual audio recording, demonstrating negotiation skills in a specific business context.
Led by Tosin Lagoke, this module examines strategic management in public and private sectors, with emphasis on sustainability and Net-zero goals.
Students apply analytical tools to evaluate business environments and develop strategic options.
Assessment is a 2500-word report, including environmental audit, scenario analysis, and business model development.
Led by Beverley Hill, this module explores the psychological, sociological, and cultural dimensions of consumer behaviour.
Students analyse marketing’s influence on consumption and evaluate strategies for promoting sustainable behaviour change.
Assessment is a 3000-word essay applying theory to real-world consumer contexts.
Led by Beverley Hill, this module addresses the complexities of marketing across borders, including cultural diversity, market adaptation, and global strategy.
Students conduct a market audit and develop an international marketing plan.
Assessment includes two 1500-word professional practice reports, focusing on market analysis and strategic planning.
Led by Liudmyla Batsenko, this module reimagines organisational theory through a critical and future-oriented lens.
Students examine diverse organisational forms and processes, including ethical decision-making and intangible assets.
Assessment includes a 15-minute group presentation and a 1500-word individual report evaluating organisational theory and practice.
Led by Philip Hudson, this module investigates the ethical and governance frameworks shaping food policy.
Students analyse stakeholder influence, government responsibility, and industry-led initiatives, applying ethical theory to real-world food challenges.
Assessment is a 3000-word essay evaluating policy development and ethical dilemmas in food systems.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/bsc-ba-hons-environment-and-sustainability-video:
This particular programme is unique in the fact that you have two routes which students can choose to go for.
So if you are interested in environmental technology and innovation system syncing, you can decide to go for the BSc route; and if you're not interested in that, you are interested in activism, the society and food security, you can choose the BA route.
It's bringing together the big challenges that we face now and in the future and if you want to be part of that change then this degree is for you.
I knew I didn't want to go to a normal university I didn't want to be sat in a lecture hall the whole time.
A really big thing for me was having a beautiful surrounding.
The RAU is a great environment to study because we have the faculty and staff that provide supportive learning for our diverse number of students, and also because we have relationships with various organizations charities in the UK, and apart from getting the education, students are able to be put on placements.
The benefit of my placement was further cementing what I'd learned in the classroom and seeing how it was used in the real world.
The skills I learned from my work placement kind of really varied from really specific things to real teamwork and community.
Throughout your degree programme you will really be building your interest areas towards a subject area you want to really dive deep into, so that will be your dissertation project which you do in the third year.
My dissertation was on how Covid had an impact on food and security in the United Kingdom.
People were very interested in what I was writing about and why.
They wanted to give as much support as possible.
I did my dissertation on eco labels and the interactions that both consumers and farmers had with them.
I definitely feel ready to go out into the real world and I'm incredibly glad I came to the RAU, it's been an incredible experience.
The potential careers and outcomes for graduating in this course are numerous.
One can work with the environmental sector, for example DEFRA, forestry research, but you can also work as a consultant looking at sustainability both in the agriculture sector and in the real estate sector.
I'm extremely glad I came to the RAU, it was one of the best decisions I ever made.
As much as I don't want to leave I feel ready to leave and kind of on to the next chapter it just kind of feels like a progression.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-hons-countryside-management-top-up/video-transcript:
I'm so glad I came to the RAU because most of my course has been outside and for me that is such a big thing.
Honestly it's such an amazing place and such an amazing campus, it's absolutely beautiful here.
I like the fact that it's a very small university and I quite like the close-knitness that that gives.
I'm from London myself so the thought of getting out of the city and being more rural definitely appealed to me.
The wildlife environment and countryside courses entail just that, at a blend of academic applied and practical.
What we want students to be able to do by the end of these courses is secure employment in relevant organizations and businesses.
We really do value the land we have around, the brilliant campus that we have for field work.
Outside jobs get integrated all the time and we have people come in and talk to us about their job who are alumni, half of them.
It's a good mix, it's classroom based stuff but quite often then going out and seeing examples or doing.
What we're trying to do with the programs as well is to try and link in the learning that the students are doing with actual applied research work that's got relevance in the real world.
I'm doing a research project at the moment on the phenology of nectar in the blackthorn hedgerows around the RAU.
I have looked at the effect of different bracken management methods.
I'm currently doing a research project on reptiles to see whether a hibernacula that we installed has actually expanded the population.
There's also strong vocational elements where we blend our academic knowledge and understanding with the practical work.
I actually laid that hedge that we were looking at before a few weeks back as part of our training course.
It's really really enjoyable and you know kind of the processes that happen to get things done.
A lot of employment and would-be employers look for practical experience, which gives us the edge because we've been out and we've practiced it.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-wildlife-countryside-mgmt-top-up-modules:
Led by Cassie Newland, this module examines the management of heritage assets including buildings, landscapes, and archaeological sites.
Students explore conservation planning, policy, stakeholder roles, and sustainability.
Learning is supported by seminars, guest speakers, and site visits.
Assessment consists of two professional practice reports (each 1500 words), focusing on historical context, significance, and management recommendations.
Led by Jonathan Code, this module covers woodland creation, silviculture, and ecosystem services.
Students assess timber production alongside biodiversity, recreation, and climate mitigation.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars, and site visits.
Assessment comprises a 2000-word professional practice report and a portfolio of artefacts, evaluating woodland management planning and ecological appraisal.
Led by Ian Grange, this module explores contemporary countryside and environmental issues such as biodiversity loss, climate change, and rural poverty.
Students examine these topics through academic, technical, and operational lenses, using field visits and case studies.
Assessment includes a 1000-word literature review and two 1000-word problem sheets, focusing on project funding proposals and applied sector knowledge.
Led by Ian Grange, this employment-focused module develops professional skills for ecological consultancy.
Students learn to navigate ecological, legislative, and business frameworks, conduct protected species surveys, and produce client-ready reports.
Assessment includes a 1500-word literature review and a 1500-word professional field survey report, simulating real-world consultancy scenarios.
Led by Katharina Watson, this module explores faunal ecology and evolutionary processes across global ecosystems.
Students study feeding and reproductive behaviours, interspecific interactions, and ecological cycles.
Assessment includes a 15-minute group presentation and a 2000-word scientific report based on field-collected ecological data.
Module leader to be confirmed, this module introduces GIS and remote sensing for environmental, ecological, and agricultural analysis.
Students learn QGIS software and apply spatial data to real-world scenarios.
Assessment includes a 1000-word report on remote sensing techniques and a 2000-word report with maps analysing an environmental case study.
Led by Jessica Stokes, this module explores how civil society influences food and farming policy through advocacy and activism.
Students examine historical and contemporary movements, campaign strategies, and stakeholder dynamics.
Assessment includes a 1000-word essay critiquing an existing campaign and a 2000-word group project developing a new campaign.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/bsc-equine-health-welfare-top-up-modules:
Led by Andrew Hemmings, this module explores equine ethology, welfare science, and the neurobiology of behaviour.
Topics include herd dynamics, training ethics, stress-genotype interactions, and welfare legislation.
Students engage in seminars and debates supported by online materials.
Assessment is a 2500-word essay evaluating scientific and industry perspectives through structured argumentation.
Led by Simon Daniels, this module investigates equine digestive physiology, nutrient absorption, and the gut-brain axis.
Students critically evaluate feedstuffs, dietary needs, and the impact of nutrition on performance and behaviour.
Delivered via lectures, workshops, and practicals, the module is assessed through a 3000-word coursework assignment focusing on diet formulation and nutritional analysis.
Led by Dr Charlotte Sinclair, this module covers advanced equine diseases, immunology, respiratory conditions, and musculoskeletal injuries.
Students analyse veterinary diagnostics, pharmacology, and legal responsibilities in equine care.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars, and fieldwork.
Assessment is a problem sheet, evaluating disease management strategies and ethical considerations in veterinary procedures.
Led by Andrew Hemmings, this module examines reproductive physiology, breeding programme design, and advanced technologies such as AI and embryo transfer.
Students explore hormone manipulation, foal and stallion management, and international breeding practices.
Assessment is a 2000-word breeding plan, applying research to stud farm management for sport and thoroughbred horses.
Led by Tracy Bye, this module explores physiological adaptations to training across equestrian disciplines, with a focus on health, welfare, and ethics.
Students critically evaluate exercise physiology literature, assess athletic potential, and review technologies used in training and rehabilitation.
Assessment is via a 2-hour seen exam, testing application of research to modern training practices.
Led by Tracy Bye, this module explores recent scientific and industry developments in the equine sector.
Through guest lectures, workshops, and critical literature analysis, students evaluate research applications and contemporary issues.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional practice report, critically appraising a selected topic relevant to equine science and industry.
Students study negotiation phases, techniques, and alternative models, developing advanced cognitive, emotional, and linguistic competencies.
Led by Ian Evans, this module supports students in developing the skills to launch sustainable rural ventures.
Topics include idea generation, business modelling, marketing, finance, and risk analysis.
Assessment information is yet to be ratified.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/rau-rural-land-management:
I'm so happy I came to the RAU, the friends I've made here will be friends for life, the contacts I've made will be so useful for the future.
We're often asked, you know, what does the land agent do?
What does the rural land manager do?
What does an estate manager do?
You could go work on a large estate, you might be advising somebody who just owns an acre or two of land, you might want to go and work with one of the big national firms; Strutt and Parker, Bidwells, Savills.
But your character might actually be better placed going into a more local firm.
Having a course that had both valuation law as well as agriculture and rural land use was something that was really very, very interesting to me and something I was very passionate about.
It’s a very broad course, we cover everything from construction, project management, investment, valuations, planning, pretty much every aspect of property industry.
The location here at RAU is excellent because it means that our surveying students have got more of a general practice outlook, so they're not just looking at purely commercial office, industrial and retail type property.
I’m very happy with the area it's in because it's the Cotswolds, it offers such a wide range of different examples of what can be expected.
You will go out to a site which is potentially suitable for development, and then your coursework may well be based around actually preparing a planning application to do something with that particular site.
All my coursework has been designed where I’m producing something that I would be producing in the real world.
To actually see what we're learning one week, in practice the next week is really great.
Work experience is now a compulsory part of our course.
We also really work hard with them, on top of their studies, to get their CVs and their covering letters, and their applications, together so that they can put their strongest foot forward.
Last summer I actually did a work placement in London to go and experience in different fields, because it all helps with experience and then getting a job.
Our students go off to work for all sorts of different commercial real estate practices, and of course one of the real strengths of the RAU, is its alumni network.
The course is definitely preparing me for the choices I am making now, and what I will be making in the future.
I feel like I've learnt so much in the last few years here, that I am going to exceed in the workplace.
It's been one of the best decisions I've made throughout my life.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/raus-equestrian-centre-video:
Welcome to Fossehill, the equine enterprise, for the Royal Agricultural University.
We are a BHS Approved livery yard, which is open from dawn till dusk, 365 days a year to meet yours and your equestrian needs for both horse and rider.
We're only a short drive from campus or a twenty-minute walk.
You get to meet a lot of different students not only on equine courses but all across the board.
We offer stabling for up to seventy-two horses, great off-road hacking all across the RAU farms, it’s really great to facilitate different types of exercise for your horse all year round.
Facilities here at Fossehill are fantastic.
We've got our horse walker here.
Our arena is floodlit, so we can use it in the winter as well.
We're not time-constrained with it.
This is our student's barn, it's nice that we can have them all in together where they can get to know one another and can offer support and advice when needed.
We've got plenty of turnout available at the moment, now for the summer most of the horses are living out 24/7.
All the paddocks have electric fencing and automatic water drinkers.
This is our canter track, it is one mile long, circular the whole way around.
It's a wood chip surface so it weathers pretty well all year.
We're really lucky to have this, it's one of the only ones in the area.
What I love about Fossehill equestrian is that it's so relaxed and there's such good facilities on site and the fact that we can meet new people that have got similar interests.
It's so lovely to be here at Fossehill.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/rau-equestrian-centre/charges:
£139.30 Straw
£152.60 Shavings
(Refundable on full payment of all outstanding invoices on leaving)
Out of hours services (8pm -7:30am)
*Please note: prices to be reviewed in 2025

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/student-life/finance-scholarships-and-bursaries/sir-emrys-jones-memorial-trust-postgraduate-award:
For further information, please email scholarships@rau.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/gda-modules:
Led by Iris McCormick, this Level 4 module introduces the scientific principles underpinning animal and crop production.
Students explore anatomy, physiology, nutrition, and productivity, with practical lab work and field visits.
Assessment is a 3000-word portfolio, comprising at least five artefacts demonstrating understanding of key concepts and lab skills.
Led by Kat Watson, this Level 5 module explores frameworks for assessing farm animal health and welfare, ethical considerations, and regulatory standards.
Students engage with case studies and farm visits.
Assessment includes a 2000-word essay on a critical health and welfare challenge and a 15-minute group presentation, applying theory to practice.
Led by Nicola Cannon, this Level 5 module covers agronomic and economic factors in crop production, including cereals, legumes, oilseeds, and root crops.
Students examine variety selection, crop establishment, nutrition, and market requirements.
Assessment includes a portfolio (infographic, podcast, crop blueprint) and a 1-hour online test, evaluating both practical and theoretical knowledge.
Led by Ishwar Pun, this module addresses soil degradation and climate change impacts on global agriculture.
Students explore soil biodiversity, carbon sequestration, and sustainable management strategies.
Assessment is a 3000-word report (100%) requiring critical analysis and solution design.
Weekly seminars and lectures support student-led discussions and collaborative learning, with a focus on adaptation and resilience.
Led by Jonathan Code, this module explores the principles and practices of organic and regenerative agriculture in addressing food sovereignty, climate change, and environmental degradation.
Students engage in lectures, seminars, and farm visits.
Assessment is a 3000-word report (100%) synthesizing learning and proposing pathways for transitioning to sustainable food systems.
The module emphasizes systems thinking, peer learning, and policy analysis.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/msc-agricultural-technology-and-innovation-video:
The wonderful thing about where we are right now is that we are experiencing the unfolding of the fourth industrial revolution.
So when the students come and enrol in our programme with the university and our modules, they get to learn more about these technologies and they are equipped to go into various industries in agriculture and apply these technologies.
I’m extremely glad to have come to the RAU.
I’ve managed to make plenty of connections through fellow students and lecturers.
What I really enjoyed about my course was the multitude of farm visits we did, from livestock farms to arable, to regen.
We have students that have been paired with industry partners so the dissertations and the programmes that they embark on are actually used for policy implementation and also to advise the agricultural industry.
So, you don’t just come here to get the certificate, but you get the experience that comes with it which is lifelong.
I am now working as a research and process manager for a commercialised Asian company based in London.
At the practice I work in we specialise in agriculture, food and biotech, so the course not only primed me in the novel technology and the niche tech within the space, but also agriculture and business as a whole, so it primed me all round as the ideal candidate.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-agritech-and-innovation-modules:
Total of 180 credits
Led by Jonathan Code, this module examines the role of small-scale farming in sustainable food systems.
Topics include policy, agroecological initiatives, economics, and ethics.
Students engage with case studies and local food innovators.
Assessment includes a 1500-word case study and a 2000-word policy brief.
The module supports critical evaluation of farming scale, sustainability, and food security across diverse contexts.
Led by Emmanuel Zuza, this module introduces software and electronics for digital agriculture.
Students design circuits, write code, and assess IT applications in precision farming.
Assessment includes a circuit design exercise (25%), a coding task (25%), and a 1500-word essay (50%).
Delivered through lectures and lab work, the module encourages experimentation and supports applied project development.
Led by Dr Atenchong Talleh Nkobou, this module critically explores rural development theory and practice, emphasizing sustainability, decoloniality, and systemic approaches.
Students engage in team projects, scenario-based activities, and field visits.
Assessment includes a team presentation (30%) proposing solutions to rural development challenges and a 3000-word individual critical essay (70%).
The module builds competencies in project management, cross-cultural communication, and policy analysis.
Led by Emmanuel Zuza, this module addresses the causes, consequences, and solutions to climate change, focusing on sustainability and adaptation strategies.
Students critically evaluate mitigation approaches and design multidisciplinary responses.
Assessment is a 3000-word essay (100%), testing critical analysis and argumentation.
Weekly online lectures and seminars support student-led discussions and collaborative learning.
Led by Patricia Mathabe, this module explores advanced crop technologies including AI, robotics, IoT, and remote sensing.
Students critically assess their impact on food systems and environmental sustainability.
Assessment includes a 3000-word case study (70%) and a 20-minute presentation (30%).
Teaching combines blended learning, field activities, and seminars to develop innovation, synthesis, and communication skills.
Led by Lisa Morgans, this module focuses on precision livestock technologies and their application to welfare, yield, and sustainability.
Students evaluate current and emerging agritech solutions across global livestock systems.
Assessment includes a 2000-word professional practice report (80%) and a 10-minute presentation (20%).
Learning is supported by lectures, seminars, and field visits, with emphasis on evidence-based innovation.
Led by Emmanuel Zuza, this module examines the environmental impacts of agriculture and the role of technology in promoting sustainability.
Students analyse environmental factors, innovations, and policy frameworks.
Assessment is a 3000-word report (100%).
Learning includes lectures, seminars, and field sessions, fostering critical evaluation and proactive engagement with sustainability challenges.
Led by Karen Rial-Lovera, this module explores temperate and tropical farming systems, including agroforestry and aquaponics.
Students critically evaluate crop, livestock, and mixed enterprises under social, economic, and environmental pressures.
Assessment includes a group case study report (70%) and a 5-minute individual presentation (30%).
Learning is delivered through blended formats including seminars, farm walks, and group discussions.
Led by Philip Hudson, this module examines global policy mechanisms affecting the agri-food industry.
Students analyse climate agreements, trade policies, and development strategies, and propose innovative solutions.
Assessment is a 2500-word essay (100%) critically analysing a policy instrument.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars, and group work, fostering strategic thinking and policy engagement.
Led by Ian Evans, this module develops leadership capabilities through critical engagement with leadership theories and ethical practices.
Students reflect on personal and team skills in complex organisational contexts.
Assessment includes two reflective pieces: 1000 words (25%) and 2000 words (75%).
Learning is delivered through case-based discussions and blended teaching strategies.
Led by Ian Evans, this module explores the entrepreneurial process from opportunity recognition to business planning and pitching.
Students examine SME start-up strategies, financial forecasting, legal structures, and sustainable growth.
Assessment information is yet to be ratified.
Led by Atenchong Talleh Nkobou, this module develops core research competencies for postgraduate study and professional practice.
Students explore research philosophy, design, data analysis, and ethics, preparing for dissertation work.
Assessment includes a 1000-word self-reflection (30%) and a 2000-word research proposal (70%).
Teaching combines seminars and online learning to foster critical thinking and enquiry-based learning.
Led by Atenchong Talleh Nkobou, this summer variant of the dissertation module mirrors the autumn version.
Students conduct independent research, applying problem-solving and analytical skills developed throughout their programme.
Assessment is a 12,000–15,000 word dissertation (100%), showcasing their ability to investigate a topic in depth and contribute original insights.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/msc-agroecology-video:
There's quite a lot of dialogue these days around the fact that agriculture is largely impactful on the environment and possibly negatively impactful on the environment, so agroecology has a track record of being able to develop food systems that produce food for humans but also that support the environment at the same time.
We're really working to say is there a way that we can have as much benefit as we can.
We have a beautiful rural campus, we're within reach of quite a lot of innovative food systems activity, we're connected to farms, we're connected to woodlands, and we actually do link students in with all of those.
One of the USPs for the course is that we're working very closely with the Farm and Wildlife Advisory Group.
So they actually have a very active role working on farms with farmers, really to help this process along, so that it's based on fostering positive relationships both from farmers into how we might work in the education or the research realm but also from education and research into that farm environment.
As with many of our master's programmes the invitation is for students really at any points in their career.
What's interesting about master's level work and research and study is that you may not necessarily have an agricultural background, it would suit somebody who may have an environmental background or a policy background, so it has quite abroad appeal and yet it has a clear focus on developing resilient food and ecological environments.
We're an old or well established agricultural university, which gives us a certain foundation in the agricultural realm.
We're also an innovating university so we're looking at what is happening in the agricultural domain and how is that shifting.
So somebody who's coming here with an agricultural background I would say agroecology will encourage and invite and provide the possibility to think into that agricultural space in ways that are emerging.
Someone who's not been in an agricultural background I would say we're going to open that space up for you and give you possibilities to think into it in different ways.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-agroecology-modules:
Led by Dr Jonathan Code, this module introduces agroecology as a science, movement, and set of practices.
Students explore ecological, social, and governance dimensions of food systems through lectures, seminars, and field visits.
Assessment is a portfolio of five artefacts (3000 words total) combining written reflection and creative documentation.
The module supports critical thinking and experiential learning aligned with multiple UN SDGs.
Led by Professor Duncan Westbury, this module focuses on applying agroecological principles to design sustainable agricultural landscapes.
Topics include biodiversity conservation, Integrated Pest Management, and ecological intensification.
Assessment includes a 1500-word report (50%) and a 20-minute presentation (50%).
Students engage in lectures, field visits, and group activities to develop practical and theoretical competencies.
Led by Jenny Phelps MBE, this module applies ecological principles to farming systems, focusing on biodiversity, water management, and agroecological transitions.
Students analyse conventional farming impacts and propose regenerative solutions.
Assessment includes a 750-word literature review (25%) and a 2250-word report (75%).
Learning involves lectures, field visits, and case studies, with emphasis on contextual application and innovation.
Led by Kelly Hemmings, this module explores the ecological, economic, and regulatory aspects of managing woodland and farmland habitats.
Topics include ecosystem services, biodiversity net gain, woodland creation, timber production, and compliance with environmental legislation.
Assessment includes a 2500-word woodland management plan and a 1-hour seen exam, evaluating both practical and theoretical understanding of habitat management.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/msc-sustainable-agriculture-and-food-security-video:
We have in mind overlapping and complex emergencies that we are currently facing as a human species.
How do we think about these global challenges and suggest or propose solutions.
It’s a small specialist university that focuses on this specific issue and specific topic and therefore our resources are geared towards empowering students to accrue and have those competencies needed for the sector.
I choose to study this degree because before I came into RAU to the UK I was a farmer back at home, I'm originally from Nigeria.
As a young person who was involved in farming I wanted to add my voice to the global voice in terms of agriculture.
I also reached out to a lot of alumni, I reached out to them and everybody give me feedback that based on what you are doing, this is the place to be.
We attract students from diverse backgrounds.
This helps enrich the discussion that we have in the classroom.
Studying at the RAU gave me that global perspective to be able to meet with different people from different countries.
Everybody was supportive, RAU is a very small community that brings people together.
In terms of competencies what students need to be in the classroom, I think some knowledge on agriculture and policy may be important, but we also help students get to that level.
You should be able to think critically, that's what we really encourage our students to develop.
We have had students move on to work in international NGOs, also because of the interest that they gain within the program they are able to continue their academic career as PhD students or get into academic projects, we have students working as consultants and opening their own businesses.
RAU is a very good place to study sustainable agriculture and food security.
One of the things I really learnt in RAU was how to write a policy briefing, case studies.
This is the place to be if you really want to get hands on training.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-safs-modules:
Led by Philip Hudson, this module explores global challenges in poverty alleviation and food security, including food sovereignty, nutrition, and supply chain resilience.
Students critically evaluate international and local strategies and propose solutions.
Assessment is a three-part written report: a 750-word analysis, a 30-minute interview (750 words), and a 1000-word self-reflection.
Learning is supported by online resources and seminar discussions.
Led by Tosin Lagoke, this module explores strategic business models with a focus on sustainability, CSR, and competitive advantage.
Students analyse internal and external environments, evaluate strategic options, and integrate sustainability into operations.
Assessment is a 3000-word report (100%) on development options for a real organisation.
Learning includes seminars, case studies, and online resources.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-business-management-modules:
Led by Ian Evans, this module equips students to evaluate and plan profitable, sustainable farm businesses.
Topics include financial performance, benchmarking, and diversification.
Assessment includes a 3000-word group Farm Business Plan (50%) and a problem sheet (50%).
Learning is delivered through pre-recorded lectures and in-person seminars, with a focus on applying ELMS to commercial farm scenarios.
Led by Ayodeji Owoeye, this module develops financial decision-making skills across sectors.
Students explore investment strategies, financial instruments, risk management, and performance analysis.
Assessment includes a 15-minute individual presentation (40%) and a 2500-word case study essay (60%).
Teaching combines lectures, seminars, and interactive online resources to foster critical evaluation and practical application.
Led by Beverley Hill, this module explores strategic marketing frameworks, brand management, and consumer behaviour.
Students critically assess traditional and postmodern marketing approaches.
Assessment includes a 2000-word marketing report (70%) and a 1000-word theoretical critique essay (30%).
Learning is case-based and interactive, blending online materials with face-to-face teaching to develop analytical and decision-making skills.
Assessment is a 12,000–15,000 word dissertation (100%),

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/MBA-Food-and-Agriculture-video:
The food and agriculture supply side is under considerable pressure and it requires innovation thinking, it requires leaders to be able to respond to those challenges to ensure we have sustainable supply systems, resilient food systems and be able to respond to the climate action needs.
Food and agriculture is right at the heart of those issues.
The MBA programme is designed for those that have had a bit of experience and can build on that experience to develop their own leadership skills.
This programme particularly helps develop graduate skills that are valued in the workplace.
First of all a professional approach, that's ability to work in teams, communicate in teams, support teams develop their approach.
Sustainable mindset is very important because in the state of sustainable development how can we have a regenerative approach to business is very important.
Of course technically skilled, being able to understand the relevant digital and technical processes for thefood and agricultural sector, and lastly, very importantly, an innovative thinker.
MBA students need to be able to approach different challenges in an innovative way and that's what the programme delivers.
The MBA is particularly useful at the RAU because we have a very strong alumni network with very strong connections with the food and agriculture industries.
That network allows us to use real case examples to explore the challenges that are facing those sectors.
Also our other specialty is our social enterprise, that's working with students to develop new businesses such as the Cotswold Hills wine, and that very practical experience is very useful for our students.
This is about delivering you that extra edge in the workplace, giving you the personal leadership skills to help a food or agricultural business develop and thrive in the modern world.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/mba-food-and-agriculture-modules:
Led by Jonathan Code, this module examines the role of small-scale farming in sustainable food systems.
Students engage with case studies and local food innovators.
Assessment includes a 1500-word case study and a 2000-word policy brief.
The module supports critical evaluation of farming scale, sustainability, and food security across diverse contexts.
Led by Karen Rial-Lovera, this module explores temperate and tropical farming systems, including agroforestry and aquaponics.
Students critically evaluate crop, livestock, and mixed enterprises under social, economic, and environmental pressures.
Assessment includes a group case study report (70%) and a 5-minute individual presentation (30%).
Learning is delivered through blended formats including seminars, farm walks, and group discussions.
Led by Philip Hudson, this module examines global policy mechanisms affecting the agri-food industry.
Students analyse climate agreements, trade policies, and development strategies, and propose innovative solutions.
Assessment is a 2500-word essay (100%) critically analysing a policy instrument.
Teaching includes lectures, seminars, and group work, fostering strategic thinking and policy engagement.
Led by Ian Evans, this module develops critical understanding of ethical, inclusive leadership and communication in complex organisational settings.
Students explore leadership theories, team dynamics, facilitation, and resilience.
Led by Tosin Lagoke, this module focuses on embedding sustainability, inclusivity, and resilience into business strategy.
Topics include SDGs, CSR, supply chain management, and strategic decision-making.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional report (100%) based on a case study.
Teaching uses a flipped classroom model with interactive sessions, peer learning, and real-world applications.
Led by Ayodeji Owoeye, this module develops strategic financial literacy, focusing on financial statements, models, and performance analysis.
Students explore decision-making across sectors, including public and voluntary organisations.
Assessment is a 3000-word case study essay (100%).
Learning is delivered through flipped classroom sessions, scenario planning, and peer-led discussions to build confidence in financial communication and analysis.
Module leader to be confirmed, this module equips students with economic modelling skills to evaluate food production systems under resource constraints, policy shifts, and climate change.
Using Excel-based tools, students analyse profitability, investment decisions, and risk.
Assessment includes a 2400-word farm budgeting report and a 3600-word cost-benefit analysis report, both supported by quantitative models.
Led by Atenchong Talleh Nkobou, this module develops core research competencies for postgraduate study and professional practice.
Students explore research philosophy, design, data analysis, and ethics, preparing for dissertation work.
Assessment includes a 1000-word self-reflection (30%) and a 2000-word research proposal (70%).
Teaching combines seminars and online learning to foster critical thinking and enquiry-based learning.
Led by Atenchong Talleh Nkobou, this summer variant of the dissertation module mirrors the autumn version.
Students conduct independent research, applying problem-solving and analytical skills developed throughout their programme.
Assessment is a 12,000–15,000 word dissertation (100%), showcasing their ability to investigate a topic in depth and contribute original insights.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/mba-water-management-video:
We have this new novel MBA in water management driven by industry and practitioners looking at a holistic view of integrated water management and the importance of water resources.
What's unique about this new MBA in Water Management, with a collaboration between WRC and the RAU, is our 100 years of expertise in water and waste management, and also the RAU's focus on the interface with how that impacts the environment.
By taking part in this course you as an individual have a really unique opportunity to use your research and innovation to address some of the world's most challenging issues, such as climate change and water scarcity.
You also support in meeting the UK's ambitious target to become an innovation hub by 2035.
Students will look at sustainable water resources management and practices.
The technologies that water utilities need to be looking at, the economic and financial impact, both governments and government agencies have to deal with in addressing water scarcity, water resilience, wastewater management as a critical infrastructure across the globe.
The future is all about water management.
What's quite important for future leaders is to be aware of energy, water, food nexus, business, as well as environment mental strategies and use the alternative innovative solutions for the future.
Students will have access to fantastic facilities including the library, refurbished labs and Farm 491, learning from best practice and entrepreneurship where Farm 491 gives students those access to ongoing business, and at the WRC practices with ongoing projects working with engineers, scientists and operational managers on live case studies, and part of the MBA would also include stakeholders such as Wessex Water, Severn Trent, the Environment Agency.
Field trips to these critical infrastructure giving students the real case scenarios for this programme.
I think students who enrol in this MBA would be well placed to find employment within the water, wastewater utilities globally as well as the consultancy side and operational management side for various industries across the storm water sector the clean water portable water supply, as well as the wastewater industry globally.
What's really important is how we work together to come up with the solutions, so by joining this programme you're going to be equipped to be able to understand and have the knowledge to be able to make a difference for us and the planet.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/mba-water-management-modules:
Led by Ian Evans, this module develops critical understanding of ethical, inclusive leadership and communication in complex organisational settings.
Students explore leadership theories, team dynamics, facilitation, and resilience.
Led by Tosin Lagoke, this module focuses on embedding sustainability, inclusivity, and resilience into business strategy.
Topics include SDGs, CSR, supply chain management, and strategic decision-making.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional report (100%) based on a case study.
Teaching uses a flipped classroom model with interactive sessions, peer learning, and real-world applications.
Led by Ayodeji Owoeye, this module develops strategic financial literacy, focusing on financial statements, models, and performance analysis.
Students explore decision-making across sectors, including public and voluntary organisations.
Assessment is a 3000-word case study essay (100%).
Learning is delivered through flipped classroom sessions, scenario planning, and peer-led discussions to build confidence in financial communication and analysis.
Led by Kiran Tota-Maharaj, this 30-credit module explores integrated water resource management, including hydrosystems, infrastructure, water circularity, and transboundary challenges.
Students engage in field trips and case-based learning.
Assessment includes a skills portfolio (20%) and a 4800-word professional practice report (80%).
The module emphasizes strategic planning, risk analysis, and sustainable solutions for global water systems.
Led by Kiran Tota-Maharaj, this module critically examines global water policy frameworks, governance structures, and legal instruments.
Students analyse hydropolitics, stakeholder strategies, and resilience in water management.
Assessment includes a 1200-word essay (40%) and a 1800-word professional practice report (60%).
Teaching uses a flipped classroom model with interactive sessions and formative tasks to support applied learning.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-chi-swindon-modules:
Led by Cassie Newland, this 60-credit module enables students to design and execute an original research project in archaeology or heritage.
Outputs may include academic writing, professional reports, exhibitions, or media.
Assessment is a 15,000-word dissertation or equivalent (100%).
The module includes workshops, tutorials, and self-directed study, supporting career-focused or academic pathways.
Led by Annalisa Christie, this 30-credit module provides a professional grounding in landscape archaeology.
Students explore historic landscapes through desk-based and field methods including GIS, lidar, aerial imagery, and geophysics.
Assessment is a 6000-word professional practice report (100%), allowing learners to conduct landscape characterisation or analysis.
Teaching includes workshops, field visits, and blended learning formats.
Led by Annalisa Christie, this 30-credit module focuses on excavation techniques and artefact analysis.
Students learn to record contexts, interpret stratigraphy, and specialise in artefact classes.
Assessment includes a 2000-word Written Scheme of Investigation (30%) and a 4000-word artefact or site summary report (70%).
Learning is hands-on, with fieldwork, lab sessions, and blended delivery.
Led by Cassie Newland, this 30-credit module provides a professional grounding in historic buildings and landscapes.
Students explore architectural styles, materials, interiors, and exteriors, and learn recording techniques including photogrammetry and laser scanning.
Assessment is a 6000-word professional practice report (70%).
Teaching includes workshops, field trips, and blended learning, supporting career development in the built heritage sector.
Led by Cassie Newland, this 30-credit module explores how heritage is communicated and understood.
Students analyse audience engagement, interpretive narratives, and media strategies.
Assessment includes two professional practice reports: an audience analysis (1500–3000 words, 25%) and an interpretation or digital strategy plan (3000–4500 words, 75%).
Teaching combines workshops, field trips, and practical exercises to develop sector-ready skills.
Led by Annalisa Christie, this 30-credit module focuses on conservation planning and heritage management.
Students examine legal frameworks, threats to heritage, and concepts of significance and context.
Assessment is a 6000-word professional practice report (100%).
Learning includes case studies, field trips, and workshops, preparing students for roles in cultural heritage protection and sustainable development.
Led by Cassie Newland, this 30-credit module provides hands-on training in conservation materials, building pathology, and sustainable retrofitting.
Students engage with heritage craftspeople and diagnostic tools to assess and manage historic buildings.
Assessment is a 6000-word professional practice report (100%).
Teaching includes field visits and workshops, preparing learners for practical roles in conservation and sustainability.
Led by Cassie Newland, this 30-credit module explores heritage-led regeneration and placemaking in urban and rural contexts.
Students examine funding, governance, design, and community engagement.
Assessment is a 6000-word regeneration plan (100%).
Learning includes field trips, case studies, and workshops, equipping students to influence policy and lead sustainable heritage development.
Led by Cassie Newland, this flexible 30-credit module allows students to undertake a self-directed research or practice-based project aligned with their career goals.
Outputs may include reports, exhibitions, media, or academic writing.
Assessment is a 6000–10,000 word (or equivalent) project (100%).
The module supports independent study with workshops, tutorials, and peer feedback.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-real-estate-modules:
Led by Dean Bieganek, this module provides a critical overview of building inspection, construction technology, and sustainability in real estate.
Students explore building defects, energy performance, and regulatory frameworks.
Assessment is a portfolio (100%) requiring analysis and recommendations across various building scenarios.
Learning includes recorded lectures, readings, and group tutorials linking theory to industry practice.
Led by Paul Reed, this module introduces students to RICS standards and the Assessment of Professional Competence.
It focuses on ethics, communication, marketing, and digital technologies in property agency.
Assessment includes a 3000-word reflective essay (75%) and an open-book ethics quiz (25%).
Teaching combines recorded lectures, seminars, and self-directed study to prepare students for chartered surveyor status.
Led by Paul Reed, this module equips students with skills in financial and strategic appraisal of land and buildings.
Topics include investment theory, market analysis, valuation techniques, and funding strategies.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional practice report (100%) based on real-life development opportunities.
Students use Excel and market data to produce appraisals and recommendations.
Led by Steve Bucknell, this module focuses on strategic and operational management of corporate real estate assets.
Topics include portfolio tools, lease management, facilities planning, and sustainability.
Assessment is a 3000-word property management report (100%), submitted in two parts.
Learning combines recorded lectures, seminars, and team-based activities to develop professional judgement and strategic insight.
Led by Caroline Buffery, this module introduces the fundamentals of real estate and property law within the English legal system.
Students explore asset characteristics, market structures, and legal applications through reflective practice and case-based learning.
Assessment includes a 1500-word professional practice report (50%) and a problem sheet (50%).
Teaching is delivered via blended seminars and discussions.
Led by Steve Bucknell, this module introduces valuation principles, methods, and techniques essential for property professionals.
Students explore the five valuation methods, regulatory frameworks, and ethical standards.
Assessment is a 3000-word professional practice report and presentation (100%).
Learning includes seminars and applied exercises focused on development site appraisal and client reporting.
Led by William Leschallas, this module explores UK planning systems, policy evolution, and development constraints.
Students analyse spatial planning, sustainability, and legal frameworks through case studies and guest lectures.
Assessment is a 3000-word planning report (100%).
Learning includes recorded lectures, seminars, and team-based activities to develop professional judgement and strategic insight.
Led by Steve Bucknell, this module builds on foundational valuation skills, applying them to complex real-world scenarios including investment, compulsory purchase, and specialist properties.
Students produce an RICS-compliant valuation report (3000 words, 100%).
Teaching includes seminars, independent study, and formative feedback, preparing students for professional valuation practice.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-rural-estate-mgmt-modules:
Led by Caroline Buffery, this module covers legal principles relevant to rural estate management, including contract law, tort, landlord and tenant law, and conveyancing.
Students apply legal theory to practical case studies.
Assessment includes a 1500-word case study (50%) and a 1600-word problem sheet (50%).
Learning is supported by online materials, seminars, and guest lectures from legal professionals.
Led by David O’Connor, this module examines the societal role of rural land and property, focusing on policy, sustainability, and professional ethics.
Students critically evaluate current issues and forecast future challenges.
Assessment is a 3000-word literature review (100%), including a comparison with AI-generated content.
Learning includes lectures, seminars, and engagement with diverse resources.
Module leader to be confirmed, this module prepares students for rural valuation careers, covering capital valuations, landlord-tenant issues, and compulsory purchase.
Students apply valuation methodologies to real-world scenarios.
Assessment includes a 3000-word group valuation exercise and a compulsory purchase case study, both focused on statutory and commercial valuation contexts.
Led by Simon Smith, this module explores estate management strategy, tax planning, compliance, and professional ethics.
Students analyse landowner objectives and develop strategic plans.
Assessment includes a 1500-word tax planning briefing note (50%) and a 3000-word group report (50%).
Teaching involves lectures, seminars, and site visits, preparing students for MRICS qualification and professional practice.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/video-transcripts/phd-msc-by-research-video:
I chose to study the PhD at the RAU because of just the sheer number of connections they have.
I’ve met some amazing people so far and I just don’t think that I would have been able to get quite the same level of connections if I had chosen to take the PhD elsewhere.
When I wanted to put in for my PhD I started looking for universities in the UK.
The first school that popped up was the Royal Agricultural University.
The culture, the diversity of the University and their values actually enticed me.
It gave me the opportunity to study with like-minded people doing similar research.
I could see an opportunity at the RAU to take a kind of career change and find a new path.
At the Royal Agricultural University we have two main research subject areas.
So that’s Agricultural Science and Practice but also Sustainable Land and Property Management.
Research is pivotal for us to understand how to respond to the global complex challenges we face.
The PhD that I have started is looking at how we can better institutionalise well-being support for farmers within the UK red meat supply chain.
Presently I’m working on how to grow soya bean in a sustainable way in the UK.
In my PhD I’m doing research on the influence of rural women’s involvement in food business and its link with their health and well-being in Bangladesh.
I am looking at virtual livestock fencing, especially the livestock welfare in that context.
Here at the Royal Agricultural University we’re quite a small close knit research community so we all know each other really, really well and what we’re trying to do here is really empower students in their research learning experience.
One of the challenges that I have faced in the PhD is that I have chosen to explore a very sensitive topic, but I feel that the sort of support I’ve had from the staff here has given me the confidence that actually we can look at these sensitive topics that need to be explored.
Everyone’s door is open, I can go to my supervisor any time and just ask, like I really need you.
Not only my supervisor, all are really helpful here.
Everyone in the RAU is just ready to help.
Whether students want to work in the private sector or the public sector, skill sets that they’re developing will take them out into being able to be part of the change we need to see in the future food and farming system.
I feel the second home in RAU, more like a family, not that much lonely anymore in RAU!

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-nicola-cannon:
Professor in Agriculture.
Nicola Cannon is a dedicated educator and researcher.
As an agronomist she understands the challenges of arable cropping systems and the complex issues that impact on yield and quality of crops.
Nicola has a strong appreciation of the current research needs of the agricultural community and also the challenges of adoption by having a grounded agricultural background and professional understanding.
The Agricultural Educators Award 2024 to investigate opportunities for climate smart agriculture.
The Farmers Club, London.
Professor of Agriculture
BSc (Wye), PhD (Reading), PGCAP (Open), PMIAgrM, SFHEA, BASIS, FACTS, NSch, MRAC, FRAgS
My particular research and knowledge exchange is focused within the field of organic and low-input cropping systems as evidenced by my publications and KE events organised.
I have a strong interest in crop management techniques which can enhance soil health, weed control, crop yield and therefore the sustainability of cropping systems.
I have conducted field trials over a number of years looking at variety or systems interactions on yield and quality as well as studies into precision farming.
In 2010 I set up the Quarry Field trial which is now registered as a recognised European long term field experiment.
I have developed a detailed knowledge of weed challenges, crop and weed interactions and investigated techniques for reducing reliance on chemical weed control.
I am an enthusiastic, dedicated and realistic educator and researcher who understands the needs of the farming community.
Current projects include:
Other research interests:
Google Scholar:       Google scholar profile   H-index 14
ResearchGate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Nicola-Cannon-2
Orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7956-8747
Twitter:                     Nicola Cannon @nickydcannon

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-xianmin-chang:
Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor (China Programmes).
Reviewer for several journals:
Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor (China Programmes)
MSc (Beijing), MSc (Poland), PhD (Nottingham), PGCAP (Glos), FHEA, FRSB

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-katharina-watson-nee-giebel:
Dr Katharina Watson is an Associate Professor in Animal Science.
She holds a PhD in Veterinary Epidemiology from the University of Warwick.
Before joining the RAU in 2020 she spent four years as a postdoctoral researcher working in the areas of livestock disease, antimicrobial resistance and livestock precision technologies.
She is an active researcher and research grant holder of a range of research projects in the areas of animal science, veterinary epidemiology, AgriTech and environmental sciences.
Associate Professor in Animal Science.
Research Culture Coordinator.
2021: Fellow of the Higher Education Academy
PhD in Life Sciences (Veterinary Epidemiology), PgCert in Academic Practice, University of Gloucestershire, 2021, PgCert in Academic Practice, University of Gloucestershire, 2021, Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Animal Health and welfare, infectious diseases of wild, domestic and farm animals, epidemiology, antimicrobial resistance, microbiology, molecular biology, proteomics/mass spectrometry, precision livestock technologies.
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6037-0618

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-ian-grange:
Associate Professor in Environment & Countryside Management.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/kelly-swallow:
Associate Professor in Ecology and Agroecosystems.
Kelly joined the Royal Agricultural University as a Lecturer in 2014.
Prior to this, she was  Lecturer in Earth Sciences at Cirencester Sixth Form College between 2007 and 2014.
Kelly has further industry experience including arboretum and horticultural positions.
Natural history and plant ecology.
BSc (Glos), PGCE (Glos), MSc (London), PhD (Glos), PGCAP (Glos), FHEA (Higher Education Academy)
Ecology; natural history; plant ecology; vegetation science; ancient woodland; herbarium
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7658-7803
Agricultural management educational & training resources.
No-mow amenity grassland case study: phenology of floral abundance and nectar resource.
Relative contribution of ancient woodland indicator and non-indicator species to herb layer distinctiveness in ancient semi-natural, ancient replanted, and recent woodland.
Seasonal constraints or opportunities?
Teaching field ecology skills through the academic year.
Bracken treatments for grassland restoration.
MScR first supervisor 2020-2022.
Helen King.
‘Pollinator-plant interactions within semi-natural species-rich grassland versus agri-environmental wildflower seed mixes’.
Minor corrections
External Examiner MScR Tamara White, University of Gloucestershire.
'Embedding citizen science within landscape-scale nature-based recovery: a case study of hedgerows' 17 May 2024.
Hemmings, K .
& Rollings, P.
Environment and History.
https://doi.org/10.3828/whpeh.63861480327345
Ancient woodland indicators: can historic herbarium data supplement recent records to inform ecological management?
Webbia: Journal of Plant Ecology and Geography.
(77) 2.
327-336.
https://doi.org/10.36253/jopt-13400

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/governance/philip-hudson:
Senior Lecturer: Food Quality and Security & Student Exchange Academic Lead.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/Dharm-Kapletia:
Visiting Fellow.
Dr Dharm Kapletia is an established senior researcher, manager and consultant, with over 15 years’ experience across a range of innovation projects, working at the nexus of government, industry and academia.
His career has specialised in complex systems, delivering research and insights to advance solutions (technologies, managerial tools, policy) in defence, healthcare, sustainability and farming.
Dharm is now investigating actions required by business to address the nature crisis.
He has led the development of successful research proposals in the EU and UK.
Dharm's current interests span: working with nature; environment and biodiversity; regenerative and biodynamic farming; transdisciplinary innovation; wicked problems (economic, environmental, political/security).
Visiting Fellow
PhD, MSc, BA (Hons)
Business Models and Sustainability
Innovation and Technology Management
Systems Thinking and Complex Systems
Fellow of The Schumacher Institute

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/professor-tom-macmillan:
Honorary visiting Professor.
Tom is a founding Director of the Centre for Effective Innovation in Agriculture (CEIA) and Deputy Director of The National Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise (NICRE).
With CEIA colleagues he supports the Agricultural Universities Council .
He is expert advisor to the Food, Farming & Countryside Commission and was one of the team who supported Henry Dimbleby to develop the National Food Strategy .
He a trustee of the Nuffield Farming Scholarships Trust .
Tom has previously worked at the Soil Association , where he was Director of Innovation.
There, he founded the Innovative Farmers network, which supports practical 'field labs' by farmers and led an overhaul of organic standards.
From 2003-2011 he was Executive Director of the Food Ethics Council , which received the BBC Food & Farming Derek Cooper Award for its Food & Fairness Inquiry.
He has served on various advisory groups and boards, including for the Cabinet Office Food Matters report, ScienceWise , the BBSRC , Sustain and the Brighton & Hove Food Partnership .
He has a PhD in geography from the University of Manchester, where he investigated the use and abuse of science in food regulation.
Honorary Visiting Professor.
PhD Geography, University of Manchester, BA (Hons) First class, Geography, University of Oxford
Keywords: Land use, Food policy, Farmer-led innovation, Strategy
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2893-6981
Guest lecturer on a range of undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
https://rau.repository.guildhe.ac.uk/view/creators/MacMillan=3ATom=3A=3A.html

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/professor-david-main:
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor of Production Animal Health and Welfare.
David Main is a veterinary surgeon and Professor of Production of Animal Health and Welfare at the Royal Agricultural University.
He has research interests in science and practice of knowledge exchange, animal welfare assessment and improvement strategies and animal welfare education.
Former member of the Farm Animal Welfare Council, Food Ethics Council and Soil Association Council.
He is chair of Home Office Animals in Science Committee and member of McDonald’s Global Chicken Sustainability Advisory Council.
Previous initiatives include the AssureWel project, a collaboration with RSPCA and Soil Association that introduced welfare outcomes into certification schemes and the Healthy Feet Project that has been widely adopted by the UK dairy industry.
He was also project co-ordinator for Hennovation, an EU H2020 project that investigated the value of participatory approaches to innovation in the laying hen sector.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor of Production Animal Health and Welfare
BVetMed, PhD, CertVR, DWEL, DipECAWBM (AWSEL), MRCVS

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-patricia-mathabe:
Dr Mathabe is a South African and she holds a PhD in Plant Sciences from Montana State University in the United States, a MPhil in Biochemistry from University of Cambridge and a Bachelors of Technology from Vaal University of Technology in Biotechnology in South Africa.
She has over 20 years of experience working in academia, agricultural industry and government in South Africa, United States and United Kingdom.
She has experience in agricultural research proteomics, technology diffusion to small scale farmers, technology development, food security and nutrition and agri-business management.
She has graduated Undergraduate, Masters and PhD students from Kenya, South Africa and the United Kingdom.
MPDI’s ''Trends in Post-Harvest Technology and Innovation for Perishable Crops''
Mabizela G.
S, Van der Rijst M, Slabbert MM, Mathabe P.M.K, Mulle M, De Beer D, Stander M, Collin J and Bester C.
Response of Cyclopia subternata to drought stress – assessment of leaf composition, proteomics and product quality.
2023.
SAJB.
Itumeleng E.Kgang; Patricia M.K Mathabe, Ashwil Klein; Lonji Kalombo; Zinash A.
Belay, and Oluwafemi J.
Caleb.
Effects of lemon (Citrus limon L.), lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus) and peppermint (Mentha piperita L.) essential oils against of Botrytis cinerea and Penicillium expansum.
JFSA Reports.
Daniel Gaichu, Patricia Mathabe and Mathew Ngugi.
Evaluation of cardiopreventive effects of Ximenia americana (Linn.) and Pappea capensis (Eckl.
and Zeyh.) leaf aqueous extracts in rat models with myocardial infarction.
Future Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Daniel Gaichu, Patricia MK Mathabe and Mathew P Ngugi,  Cardiocurative effects of aqueous leaf extracts of Ximenia americana (Linn.) and Pappea capensis (Eckl.
and Zeyh.) in rats induced with myocardial infarction, 2023.
JEBIM.
Bioassays and proteomics as early detection tools in postharvest management of table grapes (Vitis vinifera L.) diseases – A Review, 2023.
Food Bioscience.
Bongolwethu P.
Mabusela, Zinash A.
Belay, Buntu Godongwana , Namrata Pathak Pramod V.
Mahajan, Patricia M.
Mathabe and Oluwafemi J.
Caleb Ethylene management technologies: Mitigating losses along the postharvest value chain of fresh produce.
A Review.
2021 South African Journal of Plant and Soil.
Patricia M.
Mathabe, Thulile Ndlovu, Zenash Belay and Oluwafemi J.
Progress in proteomic profiling of horticultural commodities during postharvest handling and storage.
2019.
Scientia Horticulturae.
Patricia MK Mathabe.
The role of technology in Agriculture.
Kenyatta University Biochemistry annual conference
Neliswa Matrose, Patricia M.
Mathabe, Kenechukwu Obikeze and Oluwafemi Caleb.
Antimicrobial efficacy of (Helichrysum spp.) on post-harvest disease of pomegranate fruit.
1st African Traditional and Natural Product Medicine conference, University of Limpopo, Conference Proceedings.
Mathabe, Pan African Society for Agricultural Engineers Conference.
Essential Oils as fumigants against Post-Harvest pathogens on Table Grapes.
Nairobi, 2018.
Mathabe, National Science Week Kenya: Proteomics and contained laboratory assessment of locally developed transgenic drought tolerant maize.
Nairobi, 2017.
Mathabe.
Science Forum South Africa: Igniting conversation about science: Diaspora Communities Supporting Mobility in Early Researchers.
CSIR Convention Centre, SA 2016
Proteomics Application for crop protection.
Kenyatta University, Kenya, 2016 (Invited Speaker)
ICEPE.
Kenya, 2016 University Responsibilities Patricia M.
K Mathabe
Patricia MK Mathabe, Sindisiwe Buthelezi and Dalu Mancama.
2010.
Development and application of approaches in protein profiling for Nguni cattle.
CSIR 3rd Biennial Conference
Patricia M.K.
Mathabe, Marcelo Segura, Kathryn Lilley and Paul Dupree.
2008.
Protein Complex Detection using
Sedimentation.
Annual Main Meeting of the Society of Experimental Biology.
Marseille, France
Patricia M.K Mathabe, Dalu Mancama, Ereck CHakauya and Rachel Chikwamba.
2009.
Expression of rabies antibodies on tobacco leaves.
8th Annual World Congress.
Toronto, Canada
Patricia M.K Mathabe (2023) The role of emerging technologies in agricultue Sustainable Society Digital Collective
Patricia M.K Mathabe (2023) Agricultural Technology BBC Gloucestershire Radio

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-lisa-morgans:
Lisa is a veterinarian, trained facilitator and participatory action researcher with interests in Just Transitions in animal agriculture, Farm Animal Health & Welfare, Medicine stewardship and Technology use.
Lisa leads several modules on livestock and is the programme leader for the Graduate Diploma in Agriculture.
Lisa is currently involved in various research projects ranging from Innovate UK funded industry collaborations on composting dairy farm waste and exploring waste water filtration solutions, to co-designing livestock breeding strategies that contribute to Net Zero targets but are also ethical, practical and economic for farmers to implement.
Lisa is also a work package leader in a Horizon Europe funded project called BroilerNet, which aims to improve the sustainability of the chicken meat sector across Europe through collaborative and facilitated innovation networks.
Lisa is a firm believer in farmer-led innovation to tackle the challenges facing our food system and is leading a training & support programme for researchers to improve capacity & confidence in participatory approaches in agricultural research.
See https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022030220309735
Recent work includes leading the qualitative investigation of UK farmers’ perceptions of cultured meat for the Cultured Meat & Farmers project, which ended in 2024.
Lisa has also worked on mapping evidence around co-production techniques in food systems transformation as well as co-founding a Transdisciplinary Network on tackling Antimicrobial Resistance in the Food System (AMAST) funded by the BBSRC.
Knowledge Exchange, Facilitation, Participatory approaches, Farmer-led innovation, Regenerative agriculture, Farm animal health & welfare, Antimicrobial Resistance, Medicine use.
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8269-7061
Previous research projects
Current PhD students
Jennifer Howse – understanding landscapes of support for famer wellbeing in the ruminant sector.
Completed PhD students
Mukhtar Mohammad – social discourse & narratives around positive animal welfare https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36230322/
PhD examining experience
First one planned for 2025, University of Reading PhD candidate.
Module leader for:
External engagement and impact
https://rau.repository.guildhe.ac.uk/id/user/45

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/node/15006:
Lecturer in Agricultural Sciences
Lindah Muzangwa is a dedicated crop scientist and agronomist with over 15 years of expertise in open-field agronomy, crop experimentation, laboratory analysis and teaching.
Her extensive body of work, primarily focused in Africa, has significantly advanced the implementation of sustainable cropping systems in the face of evolving climate conditions.
She tailors her efforts to cater to the needs of both small-scale and commercial farming environments.
PhD Agriculture Crop Science, University of Fort Hare, South Africa; MSc Agriculture Crop Science, University of Fort Hare, South Africa; BSc (Hons) Agriculture Crop Science, University of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/lindah-muzangwa-4a4345134/
Google scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=B3fxlCsAAAAJ&hl=en
Research gate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Lindah-Muzangwa
X (twitter): https://twitter.com/Dr_LMuzangwa
Open-field agronomy, sustainable cropping systems, climate-smart agriculture, soil health, low-input cropping systems.
Program leader for crop science and crop production modules

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/karen-rial-lovera:
Dr Karen Rial-Lovera is an Associate Professor in Agriculture and the Course Lead for the BSc (Hons) in Agriculture and the BSc(Hons) Agricultural Management (Top-Up).
Karen graduated as Agricultural Engineer and holds an MSc in Agriculture and Forestry Research from the University of Santiago de Compostela (Spain).
Following this, Karen completed her PhD in Crop Systems in collaboration with the RAU and Coventry University, focusing on how soil cultivations, nutrient management and intercropping affected soil health and crop productivity.
After completing her PhD, Karen worked as a consultant in agricultural development projects in Sub-Saharan Africa.
She then worked as Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in Agricultural Engineering at the RAU as the Douglas Bomford Trust Chair until 2019.
She then moved to Nottingham Trent University where she led the BSc (Hons) in Agriculture course and taught across UG and PG courses.
Karen returned to RAU in October 2023.
Associate Professor in Agriculture
Co-Dean Agricultural Science and Practice
PhD (Coventry University), MSc (University of Santiago de Compostela), BSc (Hons) Agricultural Engineering (University of Santiago de Compostela)
Karen’s current research focuses on agroecological practices and their effects on crop growth and quality and their ecosystem services.
She has previously worked in agricultural development and agroforestry in Europe and Africa and has led research in sustainable intensification with the adoption of agri-tech technologies for smallholder farmers.
Karen is also working on changes in agrifood systems and the importance of inclusion in agricultural education.
Contributions to conferences

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-jessica-stokes:
Associate Professor in Farm Animal Welfare Science and Policy.
Associate Professor in Farm Animal Welfare Science and Policy
BSc (Hons) (Exeter), MSc (Exeter), PhD (Bristol), PGCAP (Gloucestershire), Fellow (FHEA)
Jessica’s research and policy development focusses on collaborating with researchers, farmers and industry to reduce negative welfare and promote positive welfare frameworks which facilitate ‘good life’ opportunities for the major livestock species.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-atenchong-talleh-nkobou:
I am Lecturer in International Rural Development at the Royal Agricultural University.
I hold a BSc in Biochemistry (University of Buea), BHon in Agribusiness and Business Administration (CAH Vilentum University of Applied Sciences), MSc Agricultural Food Production and Environmental Protections (Uni Hohenheim), and a PhD in International and Rural Development (University of Reading).
My research focuses on the political economy of agrarian systems, land tenure and food security, including human rights-based approaches to development.
I am also interested in interdisciplinary research, which focuses on critiquing contemporary approaches to development theory and practice.
I have teaching and independent research consultancy experience in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands and East Africa.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-henry-webber:
Research Fellow in Crop Technology.
I am a part time lecturer in crop production and agronomy at the RAU, which I combine with a role as a policy adviser in Defra and work on the family run farm in Essex.
My PhD was from the Universities of Bristol and Reading (in collaboration with Historic England), focusing on Precision Farming and Archaeology, studying the impacts that humans have had on the landscape for thousands of years and why this is important for land managers today and in the future.
Research Fellow in Crop Technology
My research interests lie in how humans impact landscapes, with a focus around agricultural systems and sustainability.
I have a broad experience in both agriculture and archaeology which enable me to work across-disciplines utilising the latest science and technology to help answer questions about past agriculture and contribute to debates on future sustainability of landscape management.
I have worked on several research projects in the UK, as well as internationally (Mongolia, East Africa, United States, Hungary, Finland) and specialised in landscape survey techniques, soil mapping, portable X-Ray Fluorescence, remote sensing technology and ground penetrating radar.
I will be teaching modules this year on natural resource management and agri-technology under the MSc in Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security, and the MSc in Agricultural Technology and Innovation.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/node/14991:
Professor Lianhai Wu is interested in the areas of the interaction of plants with their physical environment, climate change, carbon sequestration, nutrient and water use efficiencies, mitigation of nitrogen pollution and systems modelling.
He has published over 130 peer-reviewed papers and developed a process-based model – SPACSYS.
Lianhai retired from Rothamsted Research in 2023.
Honorary Professor Agriculture, Food and the Environment.
PhD Soil Science, Beijing Agricultural University; MSc Agrometerorology, Beijing Agricultural University; BSc Agrometerorology; Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-emmanuel-zuza:
Emmanuel is passionate about sustainable rural development and smallholder farmers, my objective is to contribute to the Agriculture and Food Security industry by enhancing smallholder crop productivity, food and nutrition security, and incomes.
I am committed to promoting gender justice and addressing the challenges posed by climate change and information technology.
I am a skilled trainer and researcher in climate and environmental sciences, specializing in various crop life cycle assessment chains in Africa.
With expertise in managing international development projects, I have successfully designed, developed, and overseen long-term crop value chain programs, particularly tailored for smallholder farmer setups.
My experience includes working on projects funded by DFID, USAID, and GIZ, such as the Global Poverty Action Fund Project, Integrated Nutrition in Value Chains, Feed the Future - Peanut and Mycotoxin Innovation Lab, Malawi Improved Seed Systems and Technologies Project/Aflasafe, and MIERA project in Malawi.
As a storyteller, I focus on highlighting the impacts of climate change on crop production, with a special emphasis on smallholders' experiences and their adoption of natural-based solutions for adaptation.
My Ph.D.
research centered on climate-smart macadamia agroforestry managed by smallholders.
Emmanuel’s research focuses on food systems transformations, sustainable agricultural practices, with an emphasis on just transitions and climate suitability modelling.
Looking for PhD students to supervise.

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/professor-mark-horton:
Pro Vice-Chancellor, Research & Enterprise.
I am an archaeologist with global interests and a passion to understand and to communicate how the modern world was formed through historical process.
My research employs field and scientific methodologies, and an eagerness to discover new information through investigation.
I believe that as scientists, we have a mission to inform, communicate, educate, and through our research make the world a better place for all its inhabitants.
My research as an archaeologist has taken me on fieldwork to East Africa, Sri Lanka, Mongolia, the Caribbean, Panama, Eastern US, France and the UK.
I have a keen interest in field methods, especially in extreme and difficult environments, and to work with archaeological scientists to generate new data from often hard to reach locations.
I also specialise in landscape approaches to archaeology, to look beyond the site, to develop ways of recording and understanding the wider context.
In this work, I have been an early adopter of UAV/drone technology and exploring the potential new imaging methods, both in the UK and overseas.
Throughout my career, I have been a passionate advocate for the public understanding of the past – through TV, radio and media.
I was closely involved in the early series of Time Team (Channel 4), and presented Time Flyers (BBC2, 2002-4), and Coast (BBC2 2005-2016) and have worked with the History, National Geographic and Discovery channels.
I am currently appearing on Science Channel’s What on Earth.
As Director of Research for the RAU, I am passionate about preserving our environment (both green and historic) and rural communities while we move towards a more resilient and sustainable system of food production.
My hope is that the research that we do at the RAU will help make the world a better place for humans and animals in the uncertain future of climate change and biodiversity loss.
Pro Vice-Chancellor, Research & Enterprise
Research Projects
I have been appointed to be part of the new RAU Cultural Heritage Institute .
Here we will be offering MSc programmes in archaeology and cultural heritage, from 2020 onwards, at the Swindon Hub, as well as CPD and day schools.
I will be closely involved delivering these programmes
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
In press

New sentences found on https://rau.ac.uk/about-rau/our-staff/dr-david-o-connor:
Dr O’Connor is a lecturer in sustainable land management at the Royal Agricultural University, Cirencester, UK.
He gained his PhD from Cambridge University where he also worked as a postdoctoral researcher.
Between 2016 and 2020 he worked at Tsinghua University, Beijing.
David’s research involves pollution issues relating to brownfield development as well as agricultural land degradation.
His principle is that land requires careful stewardship in order to achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
David’s research in this subject has led to 49 SCI articles in journals including Nature , Science , Nature Sustainability, Nature Reviews: Earth & Environment .
He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for Soil Use and Management , and as an editorial board member for the Journal of Hazardous Materials and Science of the Total Environment .