# Site: https://www.ravensbourne.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 494
# --------

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk:
Please enable JavaScript in your web browser to get the best experience.
Chicago X London creative exchange video
We are a diverse, close-knit community of creators, makers and innovators.
Based in London’s Design District, Ravensbourne is renowned for its strong links to industry.
From day one, our students are building connections with practitioners and working on real-life projects with recognised brands.
July 2024
Two sets of Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students won industry-renowned 'pencils' at the 2024 D&AD New Blood Awards.
Read the article
Meet Tony, a freelance creative producer specialising in film and promos.
Tony has built a name for himself as being a versatile creative, delivering impactful projects across various mediums.
Sustainability Co-ordinator for ethical clothing brand, Lucy & Yak BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management, 2019
Graduating in 2017, Ophelia has gone on to become an award-winning make-up artist with over 600k instagram followers.
Meet Seth, a motion graphics designer who graduated from the BA (Hons) Motion Graphics course in 2015.
Animator at design studio, Animade.
Meet Ester, an international alumna who from just 12-years-old knew she wanted to make her mark in the creative world.
Freelance photographer and influencer with over 85k followers on Instagram.
Worked with the likes of Adidas, Huawei, Puma, Timberland, Nokia and BMW.
BA (Hons) Digital Photography, 2013
Self-employed photographer and videographer, Emily has founded her own business with a fellow course mate.
Putting her creative talents to the test, working as a graphic designer at a creative agency in Sydney, Australia.
Choose your level of study
Ravensbourne University London 6 Penrose Way Greenwich Peninsula London SE10 0EW
Copyright © 2025 - Ravensbourne University London

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study:
Currently reading: Study level
Our courses are some of the most exciting and innovative in the country.
Transform your passion into real-world skills with our range of further education, undergraduate and postgraduate courses
What's it like to study at Ravensbourne?”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/undergraduate-prospectus:
The best way to experience Ravensbourne is to visit us .
But until then, you'll find out all you need to know within our undergraduate prospectus 2026-27 .
Our new digital prospectus is packed with interactive features, including student work showcases and testimonials, giving you a glimpse into what Ravensbourne life is really like.
Just complete this short form for instant access to the digital prospectus, we'll also email you a link so you can come back at any time.
If you'd like a print copy please request one on the form and we'll put it in the post to you.
Further information on our courses , location , and ethos can be found on our website or please contact us with any questions.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/open-days:
Open days and building tours are a great opportunity to discover what it’s like to study at Ravensbourne University London and help you choose the right course for your future.
Please find below our upcoming Open Days:
Saturday 11 October 2025 11am-4pm
Saturday 22 November 2025 11am-4pm
Saturday 18 April 2026 11am-4pm
If you would like to visit Ravensbourne in the meantime, please book a building tour .
During our Open Days you’ll be able to:
​To secure your place, please book in advance.
Booking for these events will be available by end of July.
Before the event we will email you a schedule of the talks and drop-in sessions available.
Plus, what to expect on the day and directions.
If you have any questions about our Open Days, please email us .
Ravensbourne was just so welcoming.
Me and my mum went on a few other open days to other universities and we just ended up comparing everything back to Ravensbourne.”
Niamh Duffy , BA (Hons) Digital Television Production
Yes, our Open Days are exclusive to those that register and so you must sign up to receive updates and further information about the event.
Please visit the event page for the Open Day date you wish to attend and click ‘Book Now’ to complete our registration form.
You will then receive an email confirmation of your booking.
Further information and reminders will be sent nearer the event date.
None of our talks and activities require booking.
Just show up to the talks you want to attend and come to the area of the activities you are interested in.
Open Days are aimed at prospective students but parents, partners, teachers or advisors are welcome too.
Unfortunately, we have limited car parking spaces at our University.
We recommend utilising public transport when visiting the University, as we are 2 minutes walk away from the North Greenwich tube station.
There is parking offered by the O2 shopping centre.
If you require a disabled car parking space, please get in contact with [email protected] .
There's so much to discover on the Greenwich Peninsula.
We have an eclectic mix of eateries, shops, entertainment and culture right on our doorstep so you can easily make your visit to Ravensbourne a fun day out!
From museums to art exhibitions and food markets, Greenwich offers a range of exciting activities to explore with your family or your friends.
Choose from Italian, Latin American, Mexican, Pan-Asian cuisine and more from the mouth-watering restaurants right on our doorstep at the O2.
The IFS Cloud Cable car is a wonderful way to get an aerial view of the Greenwich Peninsula, the River Thames and the surrounding areas.
We aim to make your visit as easy and enjoyable as possible.
If you require help to access our event, let us know by emailing [email protected] and we'd be happy to help.
Both of our buildings have step-free access and so does the nearest station, North Greenwich.
If you require parking on the day please contact us ahead of time.
On the day there will be quiet spaces available to all.
If the Open Day dates do not work for you, we also offer Building Tours on-site and Virtual Tour online.
We also have more online and in-person events at which we would love to see you.
If you are a teacher and would like to bring a group of students to the Open Day, please email us at [email protected] with the following information:
We will get in touch to confirm your booking.
We hope these FAQs answer any questions you may have, but we are always happy to hear from you!
Simply email [email protected] .
Ravensbourne was the first and only open day I attended!
Ask lots of questions, take in all the cool work and imagine yourself having the best time for three years.
Ravensbourne definitely ticks all those boxes.
”
Molly Smith , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design alumna

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/search:
All the latest Ravensbourne news - don't miss out!
Highlighting the challenges and opportunities faced by the future workforce.
Research report: How can today's young people meet the shifting skills needs of tomorrow?
Welcome information for Ravensbourne University London, September new starters, BA (Hons) Games Art with year 0
Dr.
Noman Sultan is a cybersecurity academic and governance expert with a strong interdisciplinary background that bridges higher education and fintech
Dr Dababrata Chowdhury is Associate Professor in Entrepreneurship and Knowledge Management at Ravensbourne University
Welcome information for MA Luxury Brand Management Ravensbourne University London, September new starters,

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/industry-innovation-enterprise/creative-lab:
Currently reading: Our work
Creative Lab is an agency, a studio, a network and a community.
We challenge established thinking to understand emerging culture.
We explore, analyse, define, test and refine to shape strategy, organise events, create products,  design services and facilitate creative communication.
We deliver impactful solutions through shared intelligence & collaboration.
We worked with Kopparberg to create a design competition and launch event for a series of limited-edition label designs for the Swedish cider brand.
The winning student had their course fees paid for a year and their work featured on 4.5 million bottles around the world.
The competition has run for two years, and the 2022 winner has recently been employed by Kopparberg’s creative agency Neverland.
Video project sizzles created by interns Luis Ramsey and Harriet Power.
Find out more
We worked with the Obama Foundation to create a cultural Exchange between London and Chicago.
Young people from both cities then worked with Air Jordan to create exclusive basketball uniforms for the Nike Future Forward Festival in Brixton.
The exchange included special guest appearances by the likes of Tinker Hatfield, Colin Kaerpernick and NBA apparel legend Don C.
Students from our BA (Hons) Advertising & Brand Design course were asked to connect with an unsigned recording artist, understand their story and then share their understanding with the world.
Apple provided them with iPads, Apple pencils and MacBook Pros to help them do this and the work they created was exhibited at the Apple Europe headquarters in Central London.
A limited-edition publication was created to mark the occasion and selected students were offered placements with the Apple Design team and their creative agency, TBWA Media Arts Lab.
We helped Barclays investigate the future of student finance.
Students from our design department prototyped apps and digital products and pitched their ideas in the board room.
The augmented piggy bank idea was taken on by their experience design team for further development.
“Students … are equipped with a highly professional attitude.
They have the sorts of skills we need to help us transform our business by producing exciting customer experiences and communication.” – Robert Williams, Design Principal,  Experience Design Team, Barclays Bank.
Creative Lab is the space where industry and education can discover together.
We work with a community of alumni, students, practitioners and industry partners to provide creative services for brands and public institutions.
We make films, curate events, prototype digital products, facilitate insight and design communication strategies.
Over the last five years we have worked global brands such as Apple, Nike, Barclays, Deloitte, Kopparberg and Atlantic and public organisations like the Obama Foundation and the NHS.
We connect to the next generation of creative leaders to challenge convention and deliver impactful solutions.
Through this shared intelligence we connect to emerging cultures to understand new technologies and analyse developing trends.
In it together Creative Lab is the space where industry and education can discover together.
Industry collaboration is part of the DNA at Ravensbourne.
Our aim is to ‘learn with industry’ and we are pioneering a unique approach that is designed to drive innovation and support employability.
Creative Lab is a key driver for this approach and sits at the heart of an integrated network of student support hubs designed to build professional skills and support our professional life practice modules.
If you are interested in collaborating with Creative Lab, please contact [email protected] .
All students are welcome to work with Creative Lab.
If you are keen to get involved, you can find more information on the Creative Lab AULA page.
We regularly work with students as part of our Creative Lab internship scheme and all interns are paid the London Living Wage.
Please contact Derek Yates if you have any questions about getting involved.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-strategy:
Ravensbourne University London is in the midst of a metamorphosis.
One that has seen us transform from being a centre of creative excellence, to one of the UK’s leading universities at the intersection of the technology, creative and business disciplines.
A convention-defying space for world-changing collaboration.
We create bold new thinkers who shape industries at the intersection of business, creativity and technology.
A university that challenges convention to meet the needs of students and industries in a changing world.
We learn with industry, industry learns with us and together we transform lives.
PDF – 13.31MB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
Currently reading: Equality, Diversity & Inclusion committee
As a university situated in the heart of London, diversity is in our DNA.
We are proud of the many ethnicities, identities, cultures and religions that make up our creative community.
Our students, staff, alumni and collaborators are dynamic, diverse and exceptionally talented.
We’re proud of our legacy as a south-east London university that serves the local area and welcomes students from around the world.
We understand that universities have a historic position of power and privilege.
It makes sense that we must play an active role in helping to dismantle structural inequality and address how we can transform the future.
It’s critical that we continually ask questions about power, representation and how we include our entire community.
We are committed to doing the long-term work that is needed for genuine change.
As well as celebrating and sharing experiences we continue to invest in learning, developing our understanding and skills to be better allies and friends, working together to demand a fairer society for us all.
Ravensbourne staff, students, alumni and partners operate within the global creative economy.
We believe a diverse workforce and inclusive approach is key to sustainability and innovative thinking within this area, and beyond.
With this in mind we are committed to breaking down barriers faced among our community.
We have a set of organisational objectives and priority actions in line with our requirements under the Equality Act 2021.
These actions were consulted on with staff and students.
They guide us as we promote equality, diversity and inclusion, moving towards an equitable future where our community leads and thrives.
Download the EDI Action Plan
At Ravensbourne University London we mark and celebrate a number of equality, diversity and inclusion events throughout the year.
Our Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Calendar for 2025 contains some notable dates in the calendar.
EDI Calendar for 2025
Our Access and Participation Plan is designed to increase access to learning and reduce attainment and continuation gaps across our student body.
Read about our commitment to fair access and participation for students, and to addressing educational inequality in our access and participation plan page.
Access and Participation Plan
Ravensbourne measures and reports on Gender Pay Gap in line with requirements under the Equality Act.
These are published annually on the governments gender pay gap reporting service website.
In 2024 we are reporting a median gender pay gap of 0% which remains as reported in 2023.
We are reporting a mean gender pay gap of 6.4% which is a reduction from 8.1% reported in 2023
Inclusion is one of our organisational values, developed in consultation with our staff community, these values are:
We celebrate our diversity and we embrace difference as a source of strength.
We strive for an inclusive Ravensbourne community, removing barriers and challenging exclusionary and discriminatory practice.
Ravensbourne Values
We aim to support all of our staff and students and acknowledge all protected characteristics as outlined by the Equality Act 2010:
The committee is Chaired by our Vice-Chancellor and made up of staff from across our academic and professional services, and students’ union representatives, who give their time and expertise  to driving forward our efforts to make our community a more inclusive place.
PDF – 2.80MB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/sustainability-ravensbourne:
Welcome to our sustainability hub, where we shout about the exciting initiatives taking place across the university.
In 2010 we moved to our new home in North Greenwich, into a purpose-built building designed to cut carbon emissions and improve our facilities.
As we have expanded, the green agenda has remained a core consideration, so much so that are exceeding our own targets by seven years.
In 2022 we set a target date of 2030 to switch to a 100% renewable energy tariff, which, by the end of 2023, we will have already done.
By introducing a renewable tariff, we will reduce our emissions by 51%, which will mean a reduction of 428 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
For context, this is equivalent to emissions produced by 90 UK households an entire year.*
*Climate change insights, families and households, UK: August 2023 (Office for National Statistics, 11 Aug 2023)
Emissions Dashboard (UK Gov, 03 Apr 2023)
We are already well on our way to meeting, and exceeding, targets set for the City of London, outlined in the London Environment Strategy 2050 Net Zero Roadmap.
But we are always committed to doing more.
We are working hard to improve our sustainable infrastructure; this means updating the likes of hand dryers and water fountains inside the building, assembling solar panels and working with our community to plant more trees.
We are a small university with only one campus, meaning our green footprint is already much smaller than larger institutions with multiple buildings and campuses.
Rooftop terrace in Ravensbourne's R1 building.
Designed by Farshid Moussavi from the acclaimed Foreign Office Architects in 2010, thanks to its eco-friendly design and dazzling good looks, the building swiftly won the RIBA award for best Higher Education building in 2011.
The building is also extremely clever, scoring a BREEAM qualification of environmental excellence.
BREEAM Excellent is one of the highest accreditations that can be awarded to a building or project, demonstrating that a project is sustainable and environment-friendly in design and operation.
The building is cooled by a chilled beam system that efficiently heats and cools the building by channelling energy through the floor.
Each studio space comes with a double row of circular windows that provides ample daylight and offsets the need for artificial lighting.
Ravensbourne has a green roof which provides a rainwater buffer, purifies the air, reduces the ambient temperature, regulates the indoor temperature, saves energy, and encourages biodiversity within the local area.
A 100% Renewable Energy Source: Biomass energy is renewable.
Trees are used as fuel, and they are replanted to ensure a reliable, sustainable and continuous supply.
At Ravensbourne, our sustainable practices go a lot deeper than what can be measured in carbon emissions.
It is about empowering the next generation of thinkers to create change and build a more hopeful future.
This is why sustainability is embedded deep within the curriculum.
Across the full spectrum of our courses, students will learn how to build sustainability into their own practices.
They will find themselves working on live-project briefs with real clients to find creative ways to solve problems.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/meet-team:
Our staff aren’t just highly regarded academics.
They’re doers, still working in industry.
Many of them bring with them years of experience with industry greats, from Vogue to Walt Disney Company, the BBC and more.
So you’ll be learning from the experts.
They are committed to the students during their studies and beyond, encouraging them to learn from the past and experiment in the present, but to always ask: what’s next?
We hope you will choose Ravensbourne and become a member of this hugely talented community of staff, students and creative businesses based in the heart of the Greenwich Peninsula, in London.
View staff vacancies

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/contact-us:
Need a prospectus?
Want to find out about tuition fees, funding, accommodation, hiring facilities or a student?
You've come to the right place.
Simply complete this short form and someone will be in touch in one or two working days.
General enquiries: T: +44 (0) 20 3040 3500 E: [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/knowledge-exchange-research:
Currently reading: What we do
At Ravensbourne, knowledge exchange is embedded in everything we do.
We are dedicated to building partnerships with other institutions, industry partners and the wider community.
This is what we do:
Deliver impactful knowledge exchange and research projects that focus on collaborative and inclusive exchanges with industry, academia, public sector and the community
Ensure our knowledge exchange and research positively impacts society and the economy
Support staff, students, graduates and partners in their knowledge exchange and research ambitions
Work with local, national and international communities on innovative knowledge exchange and research initiatives
Pursue funding opportunities that foster innovation and celebrate excellence.
Our specialisms include:
Our reach extends widely into sectors including mental health, engineering, construction, sport and entertainment.
Our technology specialists and extensive community of partners are committed to merging theory with practice-based knowledge exchange and research, with the aim of turning experiments into impactful reality.
Our experimental research community explores the potential of existing and emerging creative technologies – in, and not limited to:
We have an international reputation as a knowledge exchange and research partner on innovative projects, working with industry, academia, the community and government in the UK and beyond.
At Ravensbourne, we embed knowledge exchange and research within the culture of the university by encouraging staff and students to engage in both academic and practice-based work.
We focus on new approaches to interactivity and immersive technology, social innovation applied to design and culture, and commercial knowledge exchange and research in the creative industries and beyond.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/news/pr-led-research-campaigns:
Currently reading: Mission
In line with our 2030 framework, as well as the UK’s new Modern Industrial Strategy, Ravensbourne University London are committed to facilitating conversations between educators and industry for the benefit of the creative, technology and business sectors.
PR-led campaigns are a core part of this effort, with the goal of raising awareness of the latest and most pressing issues impacting the workforce of the future.
Through our thorough research and unique insights, these campaigns will demonstrate crucial thought leadership by sharing industry insights and academic expertise.
Our aim is to steer conversations towards solutions which start with productive collaboration between education and industry and end by transforming the world around us.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/ravensbourne-record:
Introducing our brand new industry podcast, 'Ravensbourne on Record'.
This series will focus on topical issues such as education, skills development, employment and social justice, with a range of high-profile guests joining us to consider the challenges and potential solutions.”
Andy Cook, Vice Chancellor of Ravensbourne University London , Episode 1, Ravensbourne on Record
Ravensbourne on Record brings educators and industry experts together to discuss key issues within the creative, business and technology sectors, as well as the role higher education institutions, policymakers and researchers should have in shaping the future of industry.
The first episode explores how higher education can be a driving force for social mobility, addressing its critical role in enabling individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds to progress into higher income brackets.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/media:
We're making waves in the media, for the expertise of our staff body, the quality of our student's work and the innovative industry-led projects we develop together.
Take a look at our impact in the press...
In this piece for Design Week, our Director of Innovation, Industry and Enterprise, Lawrence Lartey, argues that access is the biggest issue to the creative industries.
Read more here.
John Taylor from Ravensbourne University London discusses the transition from classroom to career in this piece for Open Access Government, emphasising the need to rethink STEM education for a more inclusive and hands-on future.
Read the full article here.
Naureen Farhan, Course Leader for MSc Information Technology Management at Ravensbourne, shares her story of what time management looks like for a working academic mum.
Read the piece here.
Sein Tin, Business Lecturer at Ravensbourne University, discusses the latest trends across digital transformation in this piece for Architecture and Governance Magazine.
Read here for more details.
In this piece for the AI Journal, Ravensbourne's Deputy Vice Chancellor, Simon Robertshaw, argues that, with AI growing bigger than ever before, higher education institutions have a responsibility to equip students with the tools needed to shape the industries of tomorrow.
Andy Rees, Dean of Ravensbourne University London, thinks the transformation of arts and design education is a long-term shift that will shape the next generation of creative courses.
Our former Vice Chancellor, Andy Cook, had a piece published in Times Higher Education (THE), arguing that fixing the creative arts industries will turbocharge the UK economy.
Nosheen Gul, Course Leader in Computer Science at Ravensbourne University London, has shared her inspiring journey as a woman in tech.
Dario Llinares, Course Leader & Associate Professor in the Department of Film & TV Production, had a piece published in Arts Professional about the uncharted terrain of the AI age.
Kopparberg's iconic Core range bottles have been designed by a Ravensbourne student
Read the full article here
Ravensbourne alumna Hannah Coffin talks Needle & Thread, celebrating success and the importance of asking for help.
Read the full article.
Ten architecture master's courses on Dezeen Courses
Read the full article
Kopparberg’s Iconic Ciders Get First Ever Limited-edition Makeover
Kopparberg’s best-sellers get their first ever limited-edition makeover, designed by a university student
London has a new design district in Greenwich and you could live right by it.
Ten most popular Dezeen School Shows of 2021
This new app wants to help you build a brand with purpose
Stephen Lloyd, an educator of advertising and brand design at Ravensbourne University, tries to integrate technology and design thinking into his work.
Eight architecture degree courses on Dezeen Courses
Read the full story here.
Six product design courses on Dezeen courses
Green Rock, the London-based end-to-end creative content studio, and Ravensbourne University London have struck a partnership to accelerate the next generation of young creators into the UK’s content production industry.
Greenwich Design District opens its diverse doors
After lots of anticipation, high-profile design reveals, and an enviable collection of contributors and tenants, the Greenwich Design District is officially open.
London's Design District officially opens to the public
The Design District on London's Greenwich Peninsula has officially opened, with buildings designed by SelgasCano, 6a Architects, Adam Khan Architects, Architecture 00, HNNA, Barozzi Veiga, David Kohn Architects and Mole Architects.
Catalan ballet dancers perform at Ravensbourne University as part of the Greenwich and Docklands international festival
A project that explores rituals around death through the use of mycelium and a dance studio are included in Dezeen's latest school show by students at Ravensbourne University London.
Net Gains: Architecture 00’s building for the Greenwich Design District
London Design District launches first building by Barozzi Veiga
Ravensbourne’s brand new Institute for Creativity and Technology by Spanish-Italian architects Barozzi Veiga is the first building to launch at London’s Design District.
Barozzi Veiga designs reflective university building at London's Design District
Spanish studio Barozzi Veiga has completed an aluminium-clad building for Ravensbourne University London at the Design District in Greenwich.
‘An architectural fashion show’: Greenwich peninsula’s Design District
From a rooftop basketball court to a caterpillar-shaped food hall, the souk-like London development is architecture at its trendiest.
Can its eye-popping buildings lure young creatives – and bring the buzz?
Tenants move in as London’s Greenwich Design District nears completion
In September 2017, plans for L ondon’s first purpose-built ‘Design District’ were unveiled.
The project is nearing completion as the district readies itself for its first tenants moving in spring this year.
These include Ravensbourne University, which is moving into a shimmering silver cube designed by Barozzi Veiga (A1), with interiors by Brinkworth.
Designing the Greenwich Peninsula’s Design District
At the end of May the first ‘creatives’ will begin moving into the almost-complete Design District on a car-free 1ha site next to the O2 on the Greenwich Peninsula.
Pentland Brands partners with UK students to help launch careers
Pentland Brands, which owns Speedo, Berghaus, and other sports and outdoor lifestyle brands, announced it has partnered with academic institutions across the UK to nurture design students through mentoring workshops, career opportunities, and fabric donations.
Returning to education is best decision ever!
Decision to return to education has set 27-year-old Genna Holliss on a path to a successful career in STEM.
Ravensbourne to launch digital technology for fashion course
As digital fashion becomes the new frontier, students will be able to learn how to make virtual sneakers and digital arts at Ravensbourne.
Interior inspiration: Design Week’s picks:
Ahead of its opening later this year, interior design consultancy Brinkworth has released renders of what the Institute for Creativity and Technology will look like.
Housed in the incoming Design District, the space will be operated by Ravensbourne University London.
GMI Post met with Emma Shailer, the Director of Student Recruitment and Success of Ravensbourne, to find out how the university is adapting to rapid globalisation and to the disruption wrought by the global pandemic.
Though last year was hardly an easy ride for fashions students, it was also a year in which they, and the institutions they studied at, demonstrated the power of creativity, innovation and resilience in the face of challenges none of us could have foreseen.
Among the most memorable examples of this is the initiative launched by Ravensbourne University London under the direction of Programme Director, Lee Lapthorne, a collaboration between the institution’s BA Fashion and gaming courses to showcase graduate collections via a downloadable game.
Find out more.
‘Click here’ & ‘try this key command’ –Thoughts on empowering a creative community
A community of learners has always been key to learning in creative higher education.
Unfortunately, even before lockdown, successfully establishing such a community had become more and more challenging.
On the BA Hons Advertising & Brand Design at Ravensbourne, they bucked this trend and in the 2020 publication, We Are 906!
course leader Derek Yates used the Foreword to pay tribute to what the class had achieved.
Barcelona-based architecture duo Barozzi Veiga have created a dark and moody, and a light and bright design, respectively, for their own homes.
They recently designed our very own Institute for Creativity and Technology.
Dezeen's top 10 student and graduate projects of 2020
Dissolvable noodle packaging by Holly Grounds
Ravensbourne University student Holly Grounds has infused an edible biofilm with dried herbs and spices to create a ramen wrapper that dissolves and flavours the noodles when boiled alongside them.
The aim is to replace the many plastic sachets that normally accompany the ready-meal and take decades to decompose, while the dish itself is designed to be cooked and eaten in a matter of minutes.
A New Angle: Marice Cumber on how creativity can empower the homeless
The founder of Accumulate, the Art School for the Homeless, and Work Based Learning Co-ordinator at Ravensbourne wants to open up access to the positive effects of creative education still widely reserved for the privileged.
Ravensbourne University London launches new Institute for Creativity and Technology to kick-start careers
The brand new Institute for Creativity and Technology will occupy one of two Barozzi Veiga buildings at Design District from April 2021.
Design District is London’s first ever dedicated permanent hub for the creative industries and has been designed to provide workspace for up to 1,800 people across its 16 buildings.
From individual designers and makers to burgeoning start-ups and established studios, the district will house creative enterprises of all sizes and has been designed to encourage interaction, co-working and collaboration – the ingredients of a thriving creative ecosystem.
Experiences with homelessness retold in graphic novel form
London-based charity Accumulate supports young homeless people through creative education and workshops covering fields such as photography, sculpture and graphic design.
The charity previously launched Sound Judgement , the UK’s first radio station written, produced and run by people who have been affected by homelessness, and has helped people gain a formal education at London’s Ravensbourne University through scholarships.
So far, 20 Accumulate students have received scholarships, and eight have gone on to study degree courses.
FOLLOWING FASHION'S METEORIC RISE IN THE GAMING WORLD
From Twitch streams to esports apparel and everything in between, the gamification of fashion has only just begun.
Find out more
The Book of Homelessness is the first graphic novel made by homeless creatives
The Accumulate Art School for the Homeless was founded five years ago by Marice Cumber, and does incredible work to help young homeless people move forward positively in their lives through creative projects.
It runs courses in graphic design, illustration, fashion, photography, sculpture and more, building skills to enter education, employment or training, and even has a scholarship through which 20 of the course’s participants have gone on to study at Ravensbourne University.
Now it has published what it states is the world’s first graphic novel made by homeless people, The Book of Homelessness : an anthology of drawings and written work that gives its creators a platform to relay their life stories and experiences from their perspective.
Could dissolvable packaging be the key to ending our reliance on plastic?
Innovative designers are working to create packaging materials that simply disappear in water — here, Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Product Design student Holly Grounds talks methods, potential and uses.
Read more
Inside Twitch’s play for fashion
Ravensbourne programme director Lee Lapthorne discusses whether Twitch could be the new platform for luxury brands.
The Graduates continued!
Meet some more of the class of 2020
Kemi Adeeko
A recent graduate from Ravensbourne University, Kemi studied Advertising and Brand Design and now classifies herself as a visual storyteller with a focus on film and design.
Creating inclusive work which tells stories of diversity from around the world, Kemi’s work spans design, music and fashion.
She’s collaborated with Apple and artist Shamiya Battles, exploring the narrative of an unsigned artist, and devised a digital concept to share stories of Black people in everyday positive ways.
Ravensbourne gives acting vice-chancellor top job
Ravensbourne University London was pleased to announce that after a rigorous recruitment and selection process it has successfully appointed the new Vice-Chancellor, Andy Cook.
Digital approach for Ravensbourne students’ final collections
Final-year fashion design students at Ravensbourne University London have collaborated with fellow students of gaming studies to design their final collections on digital avatars.
Visionary fashion school creates interactive online game to showcase graduates’ collections
For most fashion education institutions, the closure of campuses due to Covid-19 spelled disaster for delivering curriculums centered on physical cutting and construction of garments and accessories.
But Ravensbourne University took a completely different approach, entering into the world of online gaming to provide graduating fashion students an opportunity to build their own fashion world and develop 3D digital design skills fit for a rapidly changing global industry.
Ravensbourne University: Rave Digital Première
For the first time, Ravensbourne University in London collaborated with the Twitch live streaming platform for the launch of Rave Digital , a downloadable video game designed by the students of the London Institute.
Meet the Ravensbourne class of 2020
Although Ravensbourne University London was unable to provide a physical degree showcase for its students, the South London institution has come up with the next best thing.
Teaming up with live-streaming platform Twitch .
Holly Grounds develops dissolvable ramen packaging that turns into sauce
Ravensbourne Product design student Holly Grounds has replaced the many plastic sachets that accompany a pack of instant noodles with an edible, spice-infused wrapper that breaks down when cooked to season the broth.
Ravensbourne University takes Graduate Fashion Show to Twitch
Ravensbourne partners final-year fashion design students with gaming students to realize their graduate works on digital avatars.
CLASS OF 2020
In response to the cancellation of Graduate Fashion Week due to the coronavirus pandemic, SHOWstudio created an online showcase for 2020's UK fashion graduates.
Towards happy and healthy students: digital wellbeing and COVID-19
Brad Miller, a student at Ravensbourne University London, has been both an FE and HE learner at the university, and explains how learners in both sectors are keen to know what effect the pandemic will have on their courses.
Ravensbourne University showcases fashion accessory and textile design course
Ravensbourne University is spotlighting its BA (Hons) Fashion Accessory & Textile Futures programme as part of the VDF x Ventura Projects collaboration.
Foundations of Graphic Design
Through talks and practical tasks, Art Director, Ansel Neckles leads attendees through the foundations of graphic design.
Helping to shape the future creative industry, Ansel has been a Black & Yellow Pencil Judge at D&AD, is an associate lecturer at Ravensbourne University, and a regular guest lecturer at UAL.
RetailEXPO Student Design Awards judging starts online
Judging for this year's Retail Expo Student Design Awards took place in March.
The scheme sees students from six colleges tackle briefs from major retailers and brands.
This year, Ravensbourne University were served a brief by Pizza Express .
Accumulate launches new radio show created by young homeless people
In 2017, charity Accumulate launched a three year-long scholarship programmes for people to work towards Ravensbourne’s Diploma in Design and Digital Media.
This was aimed at those who might not have taken school qualifications to help get them to a level where they could apply for a full degree course.
Multicoloured brilliance from a French artist who has transformed a corner of east London
Artist Emmanuelle Moureaux’s new installation brings colour and complexity to North Greenwich.
Dwindling creative education must be our industry's next frontier - a view from Ollie Olanipekun
Ollie Olanipekun discusses why his creative agency, Superimpose, has partnered with institutions including Ravensbourne to provide inspiration and guidance for subjects that extend beyond the classroom.
How public art can enrich the urban realm
The award-winning Ravensbourne University building is a shining example of how a new building can fit harmoniously into the surrounding area as a piece of art, says Riba Journal, inspiring the public and students alike.
UK’s first radio station run by homeless youngsters launches today
The UK’s first radio station run by homeless people has been launched to give homeless people a sustained voice on the airwaves.
Organisers Accumulate also partnered with tutors from Ravensbourne University London to share their digital expertise while students helped with branding and visualisation.
Ravensbourne University unveils student-run TV channel
Ravensbourne University London has launched a pop-up TV channel called RaveTV with the tagline, ‘By students, for students’.
The channel is being run by BA (Hons) Digital Television Production and BSc (Hons) Digital Television Technology students and will broadcast online at RaveTV and on Freeview channel 792.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/our-successes:
Our students and alumni create world-class work.
We encourage students to go for awards and work closely with industry, as this is one of the best ways to get experience.
Here are some of the latest successes, awards, and nominations achieved by our talented community.
Londnr 'Summer in the City' competition 2023 (shortlisted) - Read more
Creative Conscience Awards 2023 (shortlisted)
Present their work at an official London Fashion Week event - Read more
Bewaji Oyesanya - BA (Hons) Architecture Diversity in Design Gensler Award (Micro prize winner) - Read more
Animation goes viral on Instagram - Read more
D&AD New Blood Awards 2023 (white pencil and wood pencil winners) - Read more
Designs limited edition Kopparberg bottles - Read more
Organise and host the National Student Television Awards (NaSTAs) 2023 - Read more
Lens Culture Portrait Awards 2023 (Winner)
Students designed graphics in a brief set by ITV - Read more
Sony World Photography Awards – Student Competition (Shortlisted) - Read more
Sundance Film Festival 2023 – World Cinema Dramatic Grand Jury Prize (Winner)
Makers & Mentors Design Mentorship - Read more
Educational Writer's Award 2022 (Winner) - Read more
Employed to film COP27 in Egypt - Read more
Young Arrows Awards - Best Colourist (Winner)
Young Arrows Awards - Best Editor (Winner) - Read more
Enrolls in a Master's degree at University of Cambridge - Read more
Final major projects featured in Dezeen magazine - Read more
Designed for Nike Jordan in collaboration with the Obama Foundation - Read more
New Designers Awards - Pentland Brands Award (Winner) - Read more
PIDA UK competition 2022 - Gold Award (Winner)
PIDA UK competition 2022 - Highest Level of User-friendliness Award (Winner)
PIDA UK competition 2022 - Highest Level of Sustainability Award (Winner) - Read more
Shania Burrage, Agniezska Cybulska, and Maggie Law - BA (Hons) Architecture
The Concrete Centre Student Competition winners - Read more
Starpack Students competition 2022 - Silver Award (Winner)
Starpack Students competition 2022 - Silver Award (Winner) - Read more
Helen Hamlyn Fixperts Award 2022 (Nominated) - Read more
Graduate Fashion Week - Accessories Award (Winner), The FACE Excellence Prize (Winner)
Graduate Fashion Week - Fashion Marketing Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - Media Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - Culture and Heritage Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - Considered Fashion Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - Footwear Award (Shortlisted), The FACE Excellence Prize Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - The FACE Excellence Prize Award (Shortlisted)
Graduate Fashion Week - Accessories Award (Shortlisted), Fashion Concept Award (Shortlisted)
Shelter x Graduate Fashion Week competition (Finalist) - Read more
Presented their collections at London Fashion Week 2023 - Read more
D&AD New Blood Awards - Pencil Awards (Winners) - Read more
National Student Television Association (NaSTA) Awards - Title Sequence (Gold winner), On-Screen Talent (Silver winner), Mars Elkins El-Brogy Award for Multimedia Content (Bronze winner) - Read more
Collaborates with Netflix to design suits for Bridgerton cast - Read more
Designed limited edition labels for Kopparberg - Read more
Competed as a contestant on Sky Arts' 'The Big Design Challenge' - Read more
BAFTAs 2022 - Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer (Nominated) - Read more

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog:
Our creative community is what makes Ravensbourne truly special.
A vibrant mix of students, award-winning lecturers and industry professionals from all walks of life, we're united by a fiery creativity and a passion for industry.
Here's what we've got to say

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/international-how-apply:
Currently reading: Application process
We offer everything you could want from your course, whether you're applying for a foundation, undergraduate, or postgraduate course.
International students have always had a strong presence at Ravensbourne - last year's undergraduates came from dozens of different countries.
Each year we hope to welcome many more.
If you wish to join our international student community, please follow the three-stage process below.
Please note that the process is the same for foundation, undergraduate, and postgraduate students.
You will then need to submit your application (including your portfolio and personal statement where required) by the required deadlines.
If you meet the initial requirements, you will be invited to interview for the majority of our courses.
The application process breaks down into three stages.
It is the same process for both undergraduate and postgraduate students
Before you apply, here are some things you can do to make sure that you have all the information you need:
Start your application as early as possible by finding your course on the Ravensbourne website Study page and apply directly from your chosen course page.
Your online application will ask you to attach the following documents for review:
Be sure to answer every question on the application form with as much detail as possible, so that our admissions officers can review your application.
Your application will be checked to verify that you have submitted all the required documents as well as your portfolio/showreel.
If your application is successful at this stage, we will contact you regarding the next steps, for example by inviting you to book an interview.
Please check your emails regularly to ensure you don't miss any communications from us.
You can usually expect to receive an outcome of your application within 5 working days of an interview.
Find your course on the Ravensbourne website Study page and apply directly to us.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/industry/startup-lab:
For all our current students and alumni we offer a space where founders can thrive.
With practical support for business planning and a professional sounding board from the start up team at Ravensbourne, students can work alongside founders & businesses in the space to network, collaborate & gain valuable experience.
The door is open to any student to pop in and share their business ideas even if you are just at that lightbulb moment.
we respect what drives young entrepreneurs & offer them an environment where they can meet their goals realistically.
We value all students’ entrepreneurial goals & allow them to experience enterprise opportunities from the moment they start to long after they graduate.
Jess Lewis , Head of Commercial Partnerships
StartUp Lab has a brand new dynamic space that can be used for business meetings and networking opportunities.
We have facilities to create content, podcasts and collateral to elevate your businesses.
Fail Forward Games is a roleplaying game studio founded by Daryl Vincent, in 2023.
We are innovating in the RPG scene with our own MYTHE system.
Our first video game "Sea Beyond" is slated for a PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox release, with a MYTHE tabletop game system to follow.
Adam Pun is a luxury menswear label weaving together the journey of Nepali and British upbringings, harmoniously blending these two vibrant cultures.
It narrates stories from humble village life in Nepal to the transformative experiences of relocating to the UK.
Folve is a smart jewellery brand founded by Natalie Yuan, in 2023.
Our mission is to disrupt the existing fitness tracker industry by bringing about a seamless wearable experience to blend in with your everyday accessories, allowing you to take charge of your wellness in style.
816 is a streetwear fashion brand founded by Emma Parret.
Focusing on ‘neo-sustainability’ through innovation in textile production and ‘direct-to-fabric’ 3D printed design detail.
Our focal point us sustainability through responsible manufacturing and purchasing.
Please contact Start-Up Lab if you have any questions about getting involved.
Or follow us on LinkedIn .
Andy Ayim from Angel Investing School
We are excited to announce that Angel investing School are partnering with the StartUp Lab’s founder program from September 2024 to March 2025.
This partnership will provide endless exciting opportunities for our student and alumni founders to engage with investors and to find the right funding pathway for their business.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/industry/partnerships:
We value a rich and sustained engagement with our industry partners.
We support creative leadership and innovation through partnerships, conversations and connections with industry.
We deliver seamless purpose led collaborations that spearhead students insights and creativity to create change for the industry and your organisation.
With the support of Ravensbourne, our partners strive to make the industry a more inclusive and diverse space that ensures future generations can thrive.
We give students a voice, an opportunity and real authentic experiences that can make a difference for themselves and their peers.
We offer invaluable insights & research.
Access to raw diverse talent.
You can offer the next generation the chance to change the world around them
We measure success based on organic impact and actionable change that aligns with your objectives
We are different to other institutions because we are consistently driving an innovative and transformative way of thinking.
We get the industry because we’re from it.
We have a bespoke, strategic and multi layered approach to all our partnerships.
This includes opportunities across;
• Creative Lab
• Knowledge Exchange and Research
• StartUp Lab
• Kick Start Online courses (more information coming soon)
• Work Based Learning (more information coming soon)
• Student & course sponsorship (more information coming soon)
Please contact Luke Whitehead if you have any questions about getting involved.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/industry/seeds:
Currently reading: #mentees
Ravensbourne University London's Self-Employment Entrepreneurship Diversity Scheme (SEEDS) is designed to support the natural enterprise skills of our dyslexic neurodivergent students and those from diverse backgrounds in setting up their own business or freelance career.
SEEDS takes a holistic approach to helping its participants build confidence and contacts.
Participants work with business and career specialists throughout the six-month programme to help find a career path and pursue it.
Students : SEEDS recruits by application form and interview only.
If you have any questions please email Yvonne Halloran , the programme leader.
The SEEDS programme runs annually and is only available to students and graduates of Ravensbourne University.
The next programme will commence in October 2025.
The closing date for applications is Friday 25th April 2025.
Apply below.
If you are a prospective industry mentors, we would love to hear from you.
Please contact Yvonne Halloran .
SEEDS really pushed me to grow.
I learnt how to get things done, how to put those important milestones in place, and how to motivate myself.
As a person with dyslexia, it was also really inspiring to meet other dyslexic individuals that were thriving.
It showed me it isn’t a limitation – that was so encouraging.”
Adriya Sheikh , Founder of Vizuri Denim
My SEEDS mentor was a match made in heaven.
We are still in regular contact now.
He taught me the ethical side of business.
He taught me that before you do anything, you need to make sure you are grounded.
He made me create my own manifestation of my own ethics, and my core values.
And he said, everything that you do for your business has to relate back to these values.
It taught me that my business is something that I can take ownership of.”
Nihal Shah , Founder of Nihal Shah Homeware and Interiors
Funding for this scheme is targeted at final-year students or recent graduates who are dyslexic or neuro-diverse*.
The scheme is, however, open to other students from diverse backgrounds* who can demonstrate that they can make the most of the opportunity.
We expect there to be much competition for the limited number of places available, so please complete the form fully to show how you meet the criteria.
* Groups of students who share the following particular characteristics where data shows gaps in equality of opportunity in relation to access, success or progression:
Before we were introduced to SEEDS, painting murals was just an idea to us, but with the right support we were able to launch K&B Design, and now were proud to say that our business is thriving!
SEEDS gave us access to the connections and support we needed to really get our business off the ground.
Kirsty Langston and Brittany Abbott-Trangmar , Founders of K&B Design
Kaleidoscope is a collaborative project between a group of SEEDS participants.
PDF – 16.20MB
Since completing the SEEDS programme, I have so much more confidence and awareness from a business and entrepreneurial standpoint.
By the end of my time at SEEDS I had a really clear vision of my path and my future – I knew I wanted to pursue a career as a film director.”
Charles Whiteley , SEEDS graduate and founder of Future Generations Film Festival
Could you contribute one hour a month for five months?
We know our mentors have busy schedules, so we are very flexible in how the time is delivered.
The mentee will meet you at a time and place that works for you.
They will arrange everything, along with a plan of how to use each hour with you.
Meetings can also take place online.
We have a wonderful group of industry mentors and we offer lots of support if any mentor ever needs it, along with a short training evening at the start of the programme.
The fact that we have so much interest in our mentor programme repeatedly shows that this is a learning and development opportunity not just for mentees, but mentors too.
Alongside your mentoring, we offer the SEEDS mentees a range of workshops and business advice designed to accelerate their progress over the six months.
In the end, it will be very rewarding when you see how you have influenced their professional and personal development.
We ask that mentors have at least five years of relevant industry experience, an eagerness to invest in others and the ability to listen, empathise and give honest feedback.
We first interview prospective mentees to establish their career plans and then find suitable mentors to match their aspirations.
This may mean that we cannot match you with someone straight away, but it's important that we use your time for maximum effect.
We will retain your details (with your consent), so we can approach you about mentoring when the right fit is found.
You can also become involved in SEEDS:
Please contact Yvonne Halloran , the programme leader, if you would like to explore opportunities over an informal chat.
It’s satisfying to know that the knowledge and experience you’ve gained throughout your career is of value to somebody else.”
Beth Parker , Mentor

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/culture:
At Ravensbourne, we do things differently.
Just take a look at our award-winning building - there's nowhere else quite like it in London.
Within its walls lives a community bursting with creativity.
Like-minds, who don’t believe there are silly ideas - just ideas - and who are brave enough to take creative risks.
It's a place where ideas collide, people connect and disciplines unite.
Our diverse community means you’ll have the freedom to be yourself, to find your voice and discover what creativity truly means to you.
Here's what our students have to say...
Anytime you step into the building, 95% of people are doing something creative and getting closer to their dream.
I love seeing people running across the footbridge on level five, focussed and inspired.
It's just an infectious state of creativity, all of the time.”
Fernando Modino , Digital Film Production alumnus and Student Union President

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities:
From our TV studio, to our well-equipped fashion atelier and prototyping suite, our students have free reign to use any of our creative facilities, whatever their discipline
At Ravensbourne, there's no such thing as a silly idea.
Whether you're a product design student in need of a 3D printer, or a fashion student in need of a knitting machine, one of our friendly technicians will help to bring your idea to life.
Our expert crew includes a garment construction expert from Alexander McQueen and an award-winning glass designer, so whatever your creative ambition: you'll be in good hands.
It was important for me to find a place where I can creatively experiment, and the facilities at this institution offer exactly that.
Sofi Chetrar , BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/our-building:
Swathed in a mosaic of 28,000 gleaming tiles, our building plays a standout role on the Greenwich Peninsula.
Bold, brave and built for 21st-century learning, it perfectly encapsulates all that is Ravensbourne
Designed by Farshid Moussavi from the acclaimed Foreign Office Architects in 2010, the Ravensbourne building has been hailed as a masterclass in functional design and public art by RIBA magazine .
Holding its own against the iconic O2 arena, the building is swathed in different coloured, tesellated aluminium tiles and circular windows of different sizes.
Together, they create a sense of movement, reflecting our boundless creativity, diversity, experimental nature and our focus on creative design and technology.
Thanks to its eco-friendly design and dazzling good looks, the building swiftly won the RIBA award for best Higher Education building in 2011.
As you'd expect of a college focusing on design, it's a beautiful building inside and out, and a real contrast to the slightly corporate O2 and surrounding area.
Inside, it's airy and innovatively designed to make the most of the space; lucky students!”
Sarah Drinkwater , Google Community Manager
View of Level 7 teaching spaces in Ravensbourne's R1 building.
Equally impressive inside, the building is arranged around a vast, sweeping atrium, the building is made up of four interconnected storeys, split floors and open-studio learning.
It was design is to encourage collaboration between the different disciplines and practices within Ravensbourne, and to stimulate the work of creative professionals.
Featuring a variety of workspaces, including social and quiet areas, high-tech creative suites, technology hubs, design studios and more, it has:
This variety of formal and informal learning spaces, together with the flexible studio spaces, have provided Ravensbourne with a 21st century learning environment which is no longer focused on the teacher-centred paradigm but a learner-centred paradigm.”
Farshid Moussavi , Architect
Last but not least, the building is also extremely clever, scoring a BREEAM qualification of environmental excellence.
The enormous atrium connecting the university to the outside world provides air-flow to the rest of the building.
And the building is cooled by a chilled beam system that efficiently heats and cools the building by channelling energy through the floor.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/our-local-area:
Currently reading: The Tide
Ravensbourne University is located in the heart of the Design District on Greenwich Peninsula, with views stretching across the River Thames, to Canary Wharf, Maritime Greenwich and beyond.
This stretch of London's riverside is a thriving public space, filled with creative businesses, a 3km art trail, restaurants, cafes, hotels, and entertainment juggernaut, the O2 arena.
There's also plenty of open space to wander by the river, and parks to sit and watch the world go by.
Flooded with bright light, the peninsula is the perfect place to get creative and inspired.
The Tide is London's first-ever elevated riverside linear park, and it's right on our doorstep.
Running from Peninsula Square and along the riverside, it's currently 1km in length, and will be 5km when completed.
That's longer than the High Line in New York.
This swirl of raised, landscaped walkways and sunken parks, is lined with native trees, grasses and wildflowers, reaching 9m at its highest point.
What's more, it offers wooden sun loungers along the river banks, for a spot of sunbathing between lessons or some quiet time for creative thought.
The cherry on the cake is Damien Hirst's Mermaid, and work by a host of other artists.
Have you ever seen a slice of ship?
You will here.
There is so much to explore just on our doorstep.
Check out The Tide and everything the Greenwich Peninsula has to offer.
Greenwich Peninsula - The Tide
We are situated right next door to the famous 02 Arena.
North Greenwich station is only a 2-minute walk away and offer direct services to Stratford and Central London via the Jubilee Line.
London cable cars, also known as the Emirates Airline is also nearby and offers a unique travel experience between the Greenwich Peninsula and the Royal Docks.
Historical Greenwich with its beautiful parks and the Cutty Sark is just a short 10-minute bus journey away.
The world-famous O2 arena needs no introduction, but it's so much more than a music venue.
As you can see, we are literally next door, and Ravensbourne students get a huge 20% off a range of a huge range of restaurants inside, from vegan burgers in By Chloe, to Nando's, Ask, Byron and more.
There's also a tempting discount village featuring retailers such as Ted Baker, Joy, Lindt and Guess.
And if you want to let off steam, there's a bowling alley, trampoline park to shake things up, not to mention some of the world's leading musicians, comedians, sports and music events on your doorstep.
Many of our students choose to live in North Greenwich, and along the riverside.
Scape Living is a 10 minute walk away from the university and the station, and offers great rates to Ravensbourne students.
Visit our accommodation page for more .
Ravensbourne had always stood out as a hub for innovation and technology.
The location of the campus was very appealing and the building itself very inspiring.
It’s a perfect space to socialise and integrate””
Louise Gadd , BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/london-experience:
London is a bustling metropolis of art, music, food and everything in between.
It is a vibrant, cosmopolitan city steeped in culture and history, and Ravensbourne is at the creative heart of it
Home to students from across the globe, London is an inspiring place to study.
A hub for fashion, design, the arts and technology, it attracts creative talent from all around the world.
Immerse yourself in culture as you wander across London's historic bridges and stumble across some of its most iconic landmarks.
From art galleries to pop up theatre and from live music to interactive exhibitions, London is overflowing with energy and the perfect place to kick-start a thriving career in the creative industries.
Everywhere you look, London is full to the brim with creative inspiration.
London has a global reputation for being a cultural hotspot.
We have an enormous collection of galleries, theatres and museums, and many of them offer free or discounted entry to students.
Art plays an essential role in London’s thriving culture scene.
There are an estimated 1,500 permanent exhibition spaces and countless pop-up art installations throughout the year.
Whether you are a lover of the classics or looking for something more contemporary, there are a plethora of galleries to choose from.
Explore our city's fascinating history at the Museum of London or discover everything from Chinese ceramics to Alexander McQueen evening dresses at the Victoria and Albert (V&A) Museum .
London is home to some of the best theatre venues in the world.
From the historic West End to intimate pop-up events, the city is alive with live performances.
If you want to enter the creative or media industries then studying in London is a massive bonus.
We would often travel around the city as a class to various studios for talks and tours, which was very beneficial and inspiring.
Molly Smith , Advertising and Brand Design graduate
Did you know London is home to 3,000 parks?
London is one of the greenest capitals in the world, with green spaces covering almost 18% of the entire city.
Beautiful Greenwich Park is just a stones' throw away from our building.
Find your inspiration as you take in the city by foot and stop a second to pause and reflect.
Get lost in the woodlands, immerse yourself in nature and marvel at London's breathtaking views.
Even in the middle of London, you can find your own little piece of tranquility.
Wherever you are in the city, you can enjoy the abundance of green space.
Enjoy the impressive views from Greenwich Park or head south and spend the day deer-spotting in beautiful Richmond Park .
Visit Speakers' Corner on a Sunday morning in Hyde Park to hear people share their views at the historical site or visit one of the many art installations taking place at Kew Gardens each year.
London is made up of many different neighbourhoods and though very different, each has its own individual charm and strong identity.
With excellent transport networks, exploring the different London districts is easy on public transport.
Travel is affordable too, with a bus ride anywhere in the city costing just £1.75 one way.
Here is our guide to some of London's much-loved creative spots.
Camden - Camden is renowned for its eclectic, alternative music and fashion scene and is home to the famous Camden Market.
For music lovers it offers a lyrical haven of both smaller intimate venues and established ones like the legendary Roundhouse .
The Camden Lock area provides some great picturesque walks along the canal.
Kings Cross - In the last few years the Kings Cross area has been dramatically transformed and is now quickly becoming one of London's cultural landmarks.
Here you will find King’s Place , an award-winning building serving up a whole host of entertainment including music and event space.
On its doorstep is Coal Drops Yard, an exciting mix of boutique shops and street-food style eateries.
The iconic The British Library is just a few minutes' walk from the station too.
Hackney - Situated north of the river but to the east, Hackney is now one of London's coolest areas to live.
Chock-full of pop-ups, start-ups and hipster hangouts, Hackney is an area rich in both its history and community spirit.
Many artists choose to reside in Hackney Wick, and many industrial spaces have now been renovated into funky artist studios.
You can find many quirky eateries, craft breweries, and bars along the River Lee Navigation canal.
Shoreditch - Trendy Shoreditch offers a good range of cool haunts and higher-end bars and restaurants.
BoxPark Shoreditch is a shipping container complex which teams an electric atmosphere with delicious street food.
Nearby Brick Lane is famous for its exceptional curry houses and is brimming with vintage shops and intimate art galleries.
Soho and the West End - Colourful Soho is a big hit with tourists and foodies alike.
It has a thriving nightlife packed full of bars and hosts many of the city's best-known comedy clubs.
It is also recognised as being one of the city's most prominent LGBTQ+ areas.
Nearby Chinatown is home to 80 different Chinese restaurants as well as countless Chinese supermarkets and delicious bakeries.
Borough Market - Just south of the river lies historic Borough Market.
Borough Market is one of the most famous places to eat in London and was established all the way back in 1885.
Here you'll find a sprawling array of artisan stalls offering food from all over the world as well as fresh, organic produce.
Kensington and Chelsea - As well as being one of the wealthiest areas to live in London, Kensington and Chelsea boasts many cultural attractions.
It is home to a whole host of galleries and museums such as the Victoria and Albert Museums, the Design Museum and the Saatchi Gallery.
Located in north Kensington lies the famous Notting Hill.
Its picturesque pastel-coloured houses and renowned Portobello Market make it a popular spot for tourists and locals alike.
Every August Europe's biggest street festival, Notting Hill Carnival transforms the streets into a barrage of thumping music, colour and festivities.
Brixton - The birthplace of David Bowie, Brixton is a creative hub and one of the most vibrant neighbourhoods in London.
It is also home to London's largest African-Caribbean communities.
While older generations might still associate it with its troubled past, in recent years Brixton has undergone an enormous transformation, while still retaining its edge and strong sense of community.
It is now a renowned place to party and an emerging foodie scene.
Its shipping container playground, Pop Brixton serves delicious cuisine from all four corners of the world and often hosts DJs and live music.
Peckham - As soon as you set foot in Peckham, it is clear why it has built a reputation for being one of London's most popular creative hubs.
While wandering the alleys and nooks around Rye Lane you can will see the walls filled with street art while local galleries like the MOCA London and the Copeland Gallery are fast making a name for themselves.
Peckham also houses two grassroots, community-led creative centres just a stones' throw away from each other - Copeland Park and the Bussey Building and Peckham Levels.
Peckham Levels is a car-park turned coworking space with a rooftop bar boasting exceptional views of the city, while Copeland Park and Bussey Building offers studios, workshops and rentable space, enabling local creative businesses to flourish.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
While we don't have halls of residence, we do work with a number of partners to offer our students a cosy home away from home.
From friendly host families, to cosy studios and cluster flats, we have housing to suit everyone's needs.
If you have any queries about your accommodation, please get in touch with student services .
The Citizen's Advice Bureau is also on hand to help you with university housing and/or living in rented accommodation .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/support-ravensbourne:
Nothing is more important to us than your wellbeing.
We provide a network of support services to make sure you're happy, healthy and secure, so you can get on with enjoying your university life.
Find out more about the support we offer below.
Our Student Services is run by dedicated professionals, trained to deal with your questions and concerns.
The dedicated team can offer confidential advice anything from on money and housing to wellbeing and academic matters.
If you need help with applying to Ravensbourne, then take a look at our 'How to Apply' guides for more information.
If you are looking for financial advice or support, you can find information below which covers:
We also have a number of undergraduate bursaries and scholarships available.
Ravensbourne Job Service is an online portal where students can find paid work in industry while you study.
You can find out more information here:
Starting university can be daunting, but we have a support system in place to make sure you have everything you need during your time with us.
If you do find yourself struggling, which is completely normal for any university student, then we have the decicated teams to help support you.
Whether it’s anxiety, exam pressure, loneliness, anger, illness, trauma, drink, drugs or anything else affecting your overall wellbeing, do not worry as help is available.
The Student Counsellor Service offers free, expert, confidential advice to Ravensbourne students.
The Student Services team is the central point of contact for students who wish to discuss any requirements in relation to a disability.
The team have a range of services available, and can:
Visit our dedicated disability support page for more information.
We welcome students from all over the world.
Our reputation, and high graduate employment rates, make us an excellent choice for international students.
Our country specific pages provide you with bespoke guidance on the likes of:
If your country is not on our list then don't worry, you can find more information in our international section.
The Ravensbourne Students’ Union (RSU) represents our students on all matters affecting their life and education.
It coordinates a busy social calendar full of clubs, sports and regular events.
Find likeminded people through our range of societies including the Christian Union, LGBT+ Society, Film Society, Fencing Society, Asian Society, Latin Society, Trust in Dance, to name just a few.
For more information, visit Ravensbourne Students' Union or email [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/online-enrolment:
Online enrolment is the first step of completing the enrolment process at Ravensbourne University London.
Once students are confirmed on their course, having met any conditions of their offer, our enrolment team will begin to send enrolment invitation information to your personal email address.
Please ensure to make @rave.ac.uk email accounts accepted by your email provider to avoid these emails going into your spam/junk folders.
Once you have completed online enrolment, our Enrolment Team will review your enrolment information and documents.
If any further information or documentation is required, they will email you
If you are having trouble completing your online enrolment, please watch our helpful video .
There will be regular online drop-in sessions with the Student Services team to help you with any questions you may have at the start of your journey with Ravensbourne.
These will take place on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1.00pm-2.00pm UK Time.
Join here .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information:
Currently reading: Further Education
To help you get ready to start your course, your Course Leader has provided key information to make sure you know exactly what is required before starting your course, details of any equipment you require, when to attend during your first week and when your classes are.
Please find the welcome information for your course listed below
Access to Higher Education Foundation Diploma in Art and Design
Architecture BA (Hons) Architecture BA (Hons) Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures BA (Hons) Interior Design Environments Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year
Business BSc (Hons) Business Management BSc (Hons) Business Management with Integrated Foundation Year BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing with Integrated Foundation Year
Design BA (Hons) 3D Animation BA (Hons) 3D Animation with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Animation BA (Hons) Animation with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Character Design and Concept Art BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Digital Photography BA (Hons) Graphic Design BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication BA (Hons) Motion Graphics BA (Hons) Product Design BA (Hons) User-Experience and User-Interface (UX/UI) Design
Computing & Emerging Technology BSc (Hons) Computer Science BSc (Hons) Cyber Security BA (Hons) Games Art BA (Hons) Games Art with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Games Design BA (Hons) Games Design with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Games Development BA (Hons) Games Development with Integrated Foundation Year BSc (Hons) Games Programming
Fashion BA (Hons) Fashion BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management with Integrated Foundation Year BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion and Communication Media, Film and TV BA (Hons) Digital Film Production BA (Hons) Digital Television Production BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production BSc (Hons) Broadcast Engineering
Business Master of Business Administration MSc Accounting and Finance MSc Engineering Management MSc Events Management MSc International Finance MSc Project Management MSc Strategic Marketing and Analytics
Computing and Emerging Technology MSc Business and Data Analytics MSc Computer Science MSc Cyber Security MSc Cyber Security Management MSc Information Technology Management MSc Software Engineering Design MA Design Communication MA Illustration
Fashion MBA Fashion: Business Entrepreneurship

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/preparing-university:
At Ravensbourne University London, we understand that the transition to university can be daunting, whether this is your first time at university or not – but we’re here for you every step of the way.
To help you prepare for starting at Ravensbourne, and to set you up for success, we've put together some key information.
Here you'll find everything from accessing your timetables to setting up your IT account and from looking after your physical and mental health to receiving support for starting your studies.
Once you have completed online enrolment and reviewed the Welcome Information page for your course, you will be on your way to being ready for starting at Ravensbourne.
This page will help you to get set up with your IT account, view your timetable, provide you with advice on finding accommodation and budgeting.
There are also guides on looking after your physical and mental health, and skills and support for starting your studies.
Keep an eye out for emails from the university and ensure you know when to attend during International Welcome Week (for international students only) and Welcome Week (all students) - we can't wait to welcome you on campus!
Once you have successfully completed your online enrolment task you should have received details of the Ravensbourne IT account that has been created for you, this will have been sent to your personal email.
You will use your Ravensbourne IT account to access all of Ravensbourne’s applications during your studies so it’s important to complete enrolment and get this set up.
Before you can use your account, you will need to reset your initial password by visiting: ravensbourne.ac.uk/it-account .
You will require your IT account email, a mobile phone and a computer to conduct this process.
We advise you check your inbox and the intranet regularly, so you don’t miss any important updates from your tutors and the university, local deals for students, events, and opportunities.
You may find it useful to download the Outlook app to your phone or favourite/bookmark the Outlook link.
Canvas is our virtual learning environment used by our course teams to assist in teaching.
It provides a platform to communicate, share information and submit work.
Once you have completed online enrolment and activated your IT account you will be able to access Canvas from the following link: learn.rave.ac.uk
Once you have completed enrolment and set up your IT account you will then be able to access your timetable online via TermTime.
Timetables will be released on TermTime from Monday 1 September .
Please see our guide to accessing your timetable online.
Once you have completed enrolment your timetable will be allocated in 1-2 working days.
You may be able to see your first semester timetable details on your course Welcome Information page.
We are Rave SU.
We are for students, by students!
The one stop for clubs and societies, volunteering, campaigns, student democracy and events.
We are passionate about students, and work to promote their interests and welfare during their time at the University.
As the recognised representatives of students at Ravensbourne University, we amplify the student voice, and create opportunities for students to shape their student experience through representation structures.
We strive to encourage engagement and collaboration between students and the University and provide platforms for social, cultural, recreational activities and forums for discussion.
Welcome Festival
Get involved with your Students’ Union and university experience by attending this year’s SU Welcome Festival during your First Week.
We'll be running the following events on campus and releasing details of all events in September - to see the full events calendar visit rave.native.fm
Ravensbourne has partnered with the largest, specialist higher education retailer in the UK to offer the Ravensbourne Aspire scheme.
Eligible students will receive:
£500 on a Ravensbourne Aspire account to spend within their first year of study at Ravensbourne
Access to a branded online shop where you can buy a laptop, cameras and specialist accessories, other technology, books and course materials
Ravensbourne specified Mac and PC laptops will be available on the site at good value prices.
For instance, Ravensbourne Mac laptop specifications will be available at a price matching the educational discount on the Apple site before you apply the bursary to the purchase.
Recommended laptops for your course
Visit the online shop now
Eligibility:
The Ravensbourne Aspire scheme is available to students, who
How to apply
Students will not have to apply for the scheme, they will be emailed with details of how to activate their account within 4 weeks of enrolment.
If students already own an appropriate laptop, they can apply the Aspire scheme credit to other course equipment on the online shop.
Students or parents will be able to top up the funds on the student's account during the year.
Student Services at Ravensbourne is your hub of wellbeing, finance, disability and study skills support.
We offer a place where you can discuss challenges you are facing and find support to help you be successful during your studies.
We can be found on level three of the main Ravensbourne building (R1).
Please do come up to our office and speak to the staff on the help desk to arrange immediate support and chat through which of our services may work best for you.
If you'd like to get in touch before you arrive please email [email protected] or call 020 3040 3501.
University comes with lots of exciting opportunities and also some challenges.
There may be times when you are feeling low or struggling with being away from home.
You may feel overwhelmed with juggling your studies and working or are dealing with ongoing health issues.
Our wellbeing staff, along with our team of professionally qualified counsellors, are here to help with the times when University may be difficult.
Group and one-to-one support
We offer groups for students who face challenges around anxiety and a dedicated men’s support group.
Students can also speak to our wellbeing staff at any time by visiting us in room 313 or emailing [email protected]
Support Needs Checklist
If you have any additional learning challenges, a disability or other support needs please let us know by completing our Support Needs Checklist .
We'll then be in touch to discuss your needs in more detail.
Wellbeing Fair: Monday 25 September, 12.00pm - 3.00pm, level 4
Join our Wellbeing Fair to meet local and national support organisations as well as chat to fellow students and support staff.
We'll be joined by Samaritans, Mind, Change Grow Live, NHS services, Papyrus and many more.
We'll also have drinks, food, wellbeing bags, and the chance to sign up for a relaxing sound healing Gong Bath at 5.00pm
Register with GP Surgery
You should also register with a General Practitioner's Surgery (or GP’s surgery), the UK’s name for your local doctor.
Whilst you are at University it’s very important to ensure you have access to local health services.
Follow this link to the NHS guide to finding and registering with a local doctor .
Guide to Student Life and Mental Health
If you do find yourself struggling you may want to look at Mind’s guide to student life and mental health .
Please follow this link to explore advice around coping with student life, moving home and other great guidance
University funding and the money you have available can be very complex.
You’ll want to ensure you have appropriate student finance in place, think about your personal budget and the costs of your course and consider working or finding other ways to support your study.
Bursary Support
Student Services have a number of bursaries available to help support students with low family incomes and other support needs.
You can see details of support for undergraduate students , postgraduates and for our further education learners .
Student Finance England
If you have issues with your student finance then please reach out to speak to your funding body.
The majority of our students receive support from Student Finance England .
Finance and Budgeting Advice
SaveTheStudent guide to finance
Setting your budget: Ruth Bushi, author of The Student Money Manual, discusses approaches to creating your own budget on StudentSpace.
Budget planning: Money Helper have an interactive budget planner
Part-time work
You may need to find a part-time job whilst at university.
If you need support finding a role that will fit around your studies you can contact the Careers Lab team: [email protected]
Arriving at University can often mean living away from home for the first time in a student’s life.
This comes with lots of opportunities, excitement and also challenges.
Accommodation Advice
If you haven’t yet found a place to live then please take a look at our accommodation advice .
Student Services are also here to help if you get into difficulties so don’t forget to reach out on [email protected]
Preparing for Living Away from Home
Take time to consider how you might prepare for living away from home.
Below are some great websites and videos that look at living in London, preparing simple meals and thinking about making friends once you arrive.
If you are new to London then it might be worth looking at the Rough Guide to London .
Although written for tourists this is a great overview of the different areas of London and some of the highlights of the capital.
For many students living away from home might be your first time planning meals for the week and cooking for yourself regularly.
Deliveroo can get expensive, fast!
Preparing simple meals will make a huge difference to your balance and how healthy your university experience will be.
You can look at some great suggestions from Gordon Ramsay , over 100 recipes from Tasty and check out the best quick meals from BBC Good Food .
Student Services offers ongoing disability and study support for many of our students.
If you have any learning support needs or help you may require around access please complete our support checklist .
Disability Support
This is our first opportunity to speak to you about support you may be entitled to and discuss the support we will be able to offer.
This may include help with access to Ravensbourne or, for home degree students, discussing how to apply for Disable Students Allowance and we also offering support to all students around Study Skills, our dedicated team of Study Skills tutors are specialists in academic support and can help you manage your time, understand assessments and review work you are handing in.
Please email [email protected] with any questions you may have.
UCAS Study Guides
You might also want to look at some of the study skills advice available to help you make the change from college or school to University.
The UCAS study guides reviews time management, essay writing and more.
IT is here to help students and staff by providing secure, reliable and accessible IT services, tools and support.
After you have activated you IT account , head over to the IT Services SharePoint site for all the IT essential information to get started.
Starting university can mean significant changes for many students – where you live, who you live with, managing work and study, moving from a different country, living in a bigger city, commuting to a new area, and not knowing anyone before you arrive.
So, to help you feel more confident before the start of your course, we want to share some information, activities, and guidance to help you feel prepared.
We spoke to some of your current student on what tips they had for new starters to help you navigate this new chapter of your life successfully:
Complete our short one page Being a Confident Learner at University Worksheet.
Further Resources
The Know Before You Go guide produced by Student Minds is a useful resource to help you with some important things that aren’t usually talked about but are important to think about.
There are sections on identity, becoming independent, building relationships, education, mental health, and sexual health.
There are also useful tips for studying and getting organised, as well as recognising when and where to seek help when needed.
The Transition into University guide  provides further information to help you navigate new and different situations when starting university.
International students
You may find the guidance from UKCISA helpful.
(information below is quoted from UKCISA)
While usually temporary, culture shock is common among international students arriving in the UK.
You will notice differences between the way things are done and what you are used to at home.
These include the way people dress, speak and behave, teaching and learning styles, food - potentially all aspects of life.
You will soon learn the new "rules" to get by, but it may be reassuring to know that it's perfectly normal to find it hard at first.
Your fellow international students will share the experience - but so will many UK students who are away from home for the first time.
If you’re wondering what it will be like to study at Ravensbourne, then you’re in the right place to find out…
As a student starting your professional education at Ravensbourne, we want you to get the most from your university experience, building on the skills and understanding you’ve already developed.
Learning and studying at university can seem very different compared to school, college or other educational institutions overseas.
All our courses are taught on campus, in-person, with academic-professional practitioners and external experts.
A key strength of our approach to learning and teaching is the role of project-based activities in engaging students in real-world, creative, and active learning experiences.
Our range of learning experiences also include:
Studio-based and lab-based learning where individual and group project work are supervised by expert designers, tutors and researchers to develop students’ knowledge of history and contemporary practice and by technical input to develop practical skills.
Enquiry-based learning in which tasks or briefs are provided for individual or group-based projects, to introduce students to key workflows, and/or approaches to prototyping, and proof of concept testing methods that are common in industry.
Industry-standard collaboration and commissioned briefs/projects which provide motivating learning experiences within a realistic externally focused professional practice context.
Intra and interdisciplinary group projects requiring collaboration within and across disciplines.
Work-based learning to consolidate academic learning within relevant professional practice contexts and develop reflective learning
Fieldwork, external and industry visits to provide relevant learning environments and insights into professional practice contexts.
External speaker events with experts from industry, leading academics and independent practitioners are integrated within all courses to keep students in-touch with cutting-edge developments relevant to their discipline.
Networking events, exhibitions and degree shows to provide students opportunities to display their achievements and to build their social capital.
Lectures and seminars are also included in the range of learning sessions of all courses where students come together and are guided by the academic lead to scaffold and prepare students for individual and group work, and participate in discussion forums.
Technical demonstrations, practical classes, supervised time in studio, workshops, and masterclasses to support specific skill development.
Learning journals, blogs, reports, and individual and group presentations are used to encourage students to document their research, analysis, and development.
Final year dissertations and projects which offer students the opportunity to personalise their learning and focus their interests when demonstrating their academic learning and development and vocational, specialist area of practice.
Our inclusive approach generally allows students to choose the medium for their work e.g., final models, prototypes, images and video, sketches, and presentation boards.
We want your learning experiences to be authentic, meaningful, and enjoyable.
This means attendance at all timetabled sessions is essential to experience the different types of learning activities, which support you on your learning journey.
Outside of your timetabled sessions you will engage with:
Independent and directed study activities to support students in becoming self-directed autonomous learners and professional practitioners.
Online digital learning resources , available on the virtual learning platform, are designed to enhance your learning, and support the development of your personal interests and expertise within your subject.
Studying at Ravensbourne means being actively engaged your learning – in timetabled sessions and in activities outside the class which may include attending talks given by industry specialists, reading specific texts, or working with your peers on projects.
Note Taking
A key difference in learning at university, compared to school or college, is taking notes, and making sure you reference where the notes came from, so you can refer to them accurately.
See our guide on learning from note taking to help your hone your skills.
Digital Skills
As you transition to university life, mastering digital skills becomes increasingly important.
The following guides are designed to equip students with the necessary knowledge to navigate the digital world effectively, ensuring a smooth and productive academic journey.
Basic Computer Troubleshooting : Identifying and resolving common computer issues like frozen programs or connectivity problems.
Email Etiquette and Management : Writing professional emails, organizing inbox, and handling attachments.
Internet Browsing Skills : Navigating the web efficiently, using search engines effectively, and evaluating online sources.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/in-person-enrolment-international-students-only:
On your first day at Ravensbourne, international students are required to visit the Enrolment Centre ( located at Ravensbourne University London ) to complete your in-person enrolment.
The Enrolment Centre will be open from Tuesday 9 September 2025
Important note: You will not be able to attend any lessons until you have completed in-person enrolment.
International students requirement only
You may also be required to provide proof of academic qualifications – original certificates, a transcript of results or a confirmation of award letter, stamped and signed by the institution (if the original documents have not been checked on application).
Please note that we will not be able to fully enrol you on the course if you are unable to provide all of the above documents/ information.
Once you have completed your in-person enrolment you will be given your Student ID card.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/information-international-students:
Make sure to complete online enrolment prior to arriving.
You can find more information about online enrolment here .
When you arrive, you’ll be required to complete in-person enrolment at our campus.
Find details about what you’ll need for in-person enrolment here .
You'll find when you need to attend the University to complete your in-person enrolment in the International Welcome Week section of your course welcome page .
Moving to the UK to study is exciting, but we know that getting settled into a new country with different customs, languages and currency can be daunting, too.
We welcome students from all over the world, and currently have over 100 nationalities studying with us.
Our international student support team can assist you to settle in and adapt to life studying and living in the UK.
We offer dedicated support for international students and want to help you make the most of your experience at Ravensbourne.
This support can include:
If you require any assistance during your time at Ravensbourne, please email the International Student Support Team at: [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/parents/parents-guide-studying-london-campus-life:
Currently reading: London life
Explore all the sights London has to offer, including the famous Tower Bridge.
Check out the breathtaking London skyline by night.
We would often travel around the city to various studios for talks and tours, which was very inspiring”
You want your child to broaden their horizons and find a home away from home.
At Ravensbourne, they will collaborate with likeminded creatives from over 90 different countries in our award-winning creative hub.
Within its walls lives a community teeming with energy and creativity.
It’s impossible for your child not to be inspired by the passionate minds, bright lights and rich culture that surround them, allowing them to reach their full potential as learners, workers and global citizens.
Your child will have the freedom to be themselves, find their unique voice and fulfil their creative destiny.
Exceptional transport links will not only give them easy access to a tremendous city, it will also make it easier for you to reach them.
Hop on the Jubilee Line from North Greenwich to Oxford Street and they’ll be in central London in just 20 minutes, where they can sample the city's rich heritage.
There’s a bustling social and entertainment scene too.
Westfield Shopping Centre, the largest shopping centre in Europe, is just 10 minutes away, while there is a plethora of art galleries, theatres, live music events, exhibitions and museums.
The only drawback is: when you visit them, you won't want to leave!
Ravensbourne is located next to the world-famous O2
Within Ravensbourne's immediate vicinity, you will find a wealth of food places, modern technology and illustrious shops and brands.
The world-famous O2 Arena is literally next door.
It’s not just a music venue either; Ravensbourne students get 20% off a diverse range of eateries inside the building.
Many students live along the riverside in North Greenwich and we work with several accommodation partners to help our students find a great place to live.
On the Greenwich Peninsula and swathed in a mosaic of 28,000 gleaming tiles, our home makes a real statement – just like our students.
Designed by Farshid Moussavi in 2010, the Ravensbourne building has been hailed as a masterclass in functional design and public art, claiming the RIBA award for best Higher Education building in 2011.
Adjacent to Ravensbourne, The Institute for Creativity and Technology, set to open its doors in 2021, takes pride of place in the Design District, London's new work space for the Creative Industries.
It’s a perfect space to socialise and integrate”
Louise Gadd , BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate, 2015
The Ravensbourne Student Union (RSU) is the mouthpiece for our students in the local area, representing them on all matters affecting life and education, whilst helping to manage a packed calendar of welfare, social, cultural and sporting activities.
You can learn more about the RSU and your child’s wellbeing and support network , which is part of our dedicated parents’ section .
When I started Ravensbourne, I was extremely anxious as it was my first time attending higher education and studying in London.
However, the students and faculty made me feel like I was at home and the positive attitudes and mindsets made me realise I had nothing to worry about”
Christian Wood , BA (Hons) Digital Photography graduate, 2019
Our spacious and well-equipped fashion atelier means that our fashion students learn traditional, technical and creative skills such as draping, pattern cutting and machine sewing.
But not only that.
They can also push creative limits by designing and printing their own materials using our industry-standard fabric printers.
Our rapid prototyping suite helps students to turn ideas into realistic proofs of concept with the use of state-of-the-art 2d and 3d printing and fabrication.
Students can run off a working 3d prototype in less than a day, laser cut a range of 2d and 3d printed materials or use the latest dye-sublimation fabric printers to add incredible patterns to fabric.
We also have one of the world’s first and best multi-material Polyjet printers to produce detailed and precise prototypes that have a final-product look and feel.
Training is provided on specialist equipment and our helpful and friendly staff are on hand to support you in turning your ideas into working prototypes.
Our facilities are second to none.
Using digital workshops, you will be encouraged to explore new digital technologies, such as: 3D printing, digital knit, digital print, digital embroidery, laser cutting, access to body scanning, and the Lectra CAD/CAM design management system.
As a digital student, you'll need access to equipment relevant to your course that will support your learning.
The Kit Store provides a wide range of equipment that students can borrow to complete their projects.
Staff can also borrow equipment to deliver their practical sessions.
It houses a wide range of equipment from industry standard manufacturers, including cameras, audio, lighting, and more.
Staff at the Kit Store are trained in various relevant departments and are available to give advice on all the equipment within the store, to help you realise your project.
Your child will not only have access to the leading tutors and industry connections at Ravensbourne, they will also be granted use of cutting-edge facilities and equipment designed to fulfil the needs of tomorrow’s creative.
Whether it’s our TV studio or fashion atelier, prototyping suite or 3D printer, Ravensbourne students have some of the finest creative facilities available.
Any Fashion student will tell you that you should spend all of your waking hours on campus.
[In the prototyping rooms] you have access to an array of fabric printing facilities as well as laser cutting and 3D printing.
I loved experimenting with these different design mediums.
Not only is it really fun but it brings you up to speed on modern technology you may encounter in industry.”
Lydia Oosting , BA (Hons) Fashion graduate, 2019

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/parents/parents-guide-student-finance-and-funding:
Currently reading: #governmentloans
We understand that you might be concerned by the cost of university in the UK.
Doing a bit of research and planning will help give you a clear picture of the up-front costs, ongoing costs and the financial help available.
This guide to university finance for parents includes information on government loans and funding options.
In this section you'll find information about:
You can find answers to some of the most common student finance and funding-related questions below.
Tuition fees vary throughout the UK.
For UK residents in England, universities can charge up to £9,535 (£5,760 for classroom-based foundation years) a year for an undergraduate degree.
Fees for international students vary too, but start from around £10,000 per year.
Learn more : UK undergraduate fees at Ravensbourne
Learn more : funding for international students
The cost of living in London is greater in comparison to the rest of the UK, owed to it being a capital city with so much to offer in terms of employment opportunities and entertainment.
The National Union of Students (NUS) has estimated that the average rent spend per year is around £8,875 in London – up from an average of £5,928 in the rest of the UK.
When it comes to funding their studies, your child's first port of call should be the Student Loans Company (SLC).
The widely used scheme provide loans to help your child cover both their tuition fees and university living costs.
Many students enrolling in their first undergraduate degree will be eligible for a tuition fee loan.
This will cover the cost of their university degree.
Student Finance will pay upfront tuition costs and pay them directly to your child's university each academic year.
Tuition fees are not means tested, meaning the amount awarded for tuition fees is not dependent on how much you earn as a parent.
A maintenance loan is the amount available to borrow to help pay for your child's living expenses while they are studying.
This can help to pay for their university accommodation costs and will be deposited straight into your child's bank in three instalments throughout the year – once every term.
Unlike the tuition fee loans, this is means tested, meaning it's calculated based on how much you earn per year.
This means that there is support available, no matter what your family's individual financial situation.
People often ask: do parents pay for university?
While not all parents and guardians are able to subsidise university loans, it's of course beneficial to the child if the family is able to contribute some of the costs associated with studying and living in England.
This will help to reduce the cost of future repayments for your child.
The amount of loan that your child is eligible for will depend on several factors such as:
Example: An undergraduate student choosing to study in London will be awarded the full tuition fee loan (£9,250).
If they are living away from home in London, they will also be awarded around £11,672 for their maintenance loan.
This will be given in three different instalments, once at the beginning of every term.
There are also a number of additional funding options available for students.
These are based on the student's individual situation.
This includes extra support from the university for families with financial hardship or for students with disabilities.
To estimate how much you can expect your child to receive in funding based on your specific circumstances, you can use the Student Finance calculator .
Student loans must be applied to via the government's student finance scheme.
It's important to make sure your child meets all the student finance deadlines, as failure to do so could mean they receive their loans late.
This can cause all kinds of disruption to their lives and studies.
Applications to Student Finance for tuition fees must be completed at least eight weeks before your child's course begins.
Students can begin their application and find more information on student funding at S tudent Finance England .
Students are responsible for paying back their tuition and maintenance loans after they graduate.
They will begin making repayments from the 1 April after they graduate, but only if they are earning enough.
In England, this limit is £25,725 a year, and this means that they will only be expected to start paying back their loans once they can afford to.
Further education funding works in the same way that undergraduate funding does.
This means that the Student Loans Company (SLC) will pay the tuition fees directly to the university and your child will eventually have to pay the money back in instalments.
Learn more : further Education fees and funding
The funding options available for postgraduate courses are a little different to undergraduate degree courses.
Unlike undergraduate loans where the Student Loans Company (SLC) pays the university the tuition fees directly, for Master's courses the money is paid directly to the student.
The student is then responsible for paying the university.
Learn more : postgraduate fees and funding
The tuition fees and range of financial support available is different for home, European Union (EU) or international students .
If you're not sure where your child fits in, visit the UKCISA website for more information.
You can also find more information about i nternational tuition fees and scholarships and bursaries for international students and the process of a pplying to Ravensbourne .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/parents/top-tips-parents-university-students:
We see hundreds of students every year successfully adapt to their new lives in a bid to learn the tools required to launch a dream career.
To give you peace of mind and help you to manage the transition together as a family, here are some tips for parents of university students.
It can feel like there is so much to consider even before your child’s departure to university.
Working with them to tick things off the list will help them feel fully prepared for the experience ahead .
The tick list will include things like enrolment , accommodation and ensuring they have all the equipment they need to work effectively and live in comfort.
It's nice for parents, guardians and carers to be involved in these processes, and it's a great way to ensure that your child d oesn't feel like they are embarking on this new journey alone.
Learn more: preparing your child for university.
It is natural for your child to feel a little overwhelmed as they prepare for this big life event.
It's likely to be the first time your child has lived away from home.
They will have to learn how to live independently and all the responsibilities that come with this.
Here are some topics where students might need some parental advice:
Do some research into the cost of living in London.
Encourage your child to work out a budget that is going to enable them to live comfortably.
They may need to get some part-time work to support themselves, so they should have a look at wages and employment opportunities too .
When you join, our jobs and careers portal can help you find a job to fit around your studies.
There are many essential housekeeping skills that your child will need to learn to look after themselves.
While some young people are quick to develop their cooking and cleaning, as well as other domestic work, others will need more encouragement.
Why not help them make that transition prior to university?
Just don't expect them to thank you for it!
When your child is away from home, you want to feel reassured they are looking after themselves.
At Ravensbourne we have a strong network of student support services .
There's always a friendly face available to offer professional and confidential support and guidance.
Learn more: parents' guide to your child's wellbeing and support network
It is important to respect your child's independence, but that doesn't mean you can't be there to encourage them.
Here are a few tips:
When it comes to your child's studies, some of the most important things for them to learn are good time management and self-discipline.
Here are some tips that your child can use to keep them on track:
It is important to be realistic about how much work is possible to get done in a day.
Unrealistic expectations are likely to lead to disappointment.
Encourage them to start their course work early, allowing them to enjoy their social time in the knowledge that they've already tackled their class work and various assignments.
While a move to online learning has meant students have greater control over their own schedules, it is important that students still find a schedule and stick to it.
Sticking to the original lecture times will help to build structure to your child’s day.
O ften when we have lots on our plate, it is hard to narrow down our priorities.
We can quickly find ourselves feeling overwhelmed.
To combat this, encourage your child to write down three things to focus on per day.
This will help them to build discipline and effectively manage their workload.
Writing down a list of tasks to complete the next day is great practice for your child's mental wellbeing – either at the end of their working day or just before they go to sleep .
It will feel like a weight has been lifted – especially during those busy times – and they will attack tomorrow with a sense of purpose.
Staying focused at university can be difficult, especially while everything is new and exciting.
Setting a timer for half an hour or an hour can help your child to focus their attention in short sprints.
Seeing notifications from social media and messenger apps pop-up on their phone every five minutes is only going to distract them from their work.
Encourage them to put their phone out of sight while they are studying.
While some people are most productive first thing in the morning, others work best once night falls.
Understanding your child’s working patterns will help them build a schedule that works for them.
This might mean that they tackle the most challenging work first to get it out of the way and to avoid procrastination.
University is filled with new and enjoyable experiences, but exams and deadlines can make it a challenging time too.
Exams can be a stressful time for any young person , especially when they are having to balance this with the pressures of living independently, too.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/parents/your-childs-wellbeing-and-support-network:
For some parents and guardians, seeing their child leave home for university can be unsettling.
While you want them to develop the tools required to forge a rewarding career, you also want to know they’ll be ok; that they are safe, supported, healthy and given a platform and community they can thrive in.
There’s a support system in place to guide your child during a time of need and help them squeeze the most out of their studies at Ravensbourne.
University is an exciting period in a person’s life, but that doesn’t mean there won’t be the odd bump in the road.
Whether it’s anxiety, exam pressure, loneliness, anger, illness, trauma, drink, drugs or anything else affecting their mental health and wellbeing, help is available.
It coordinates a bustling social calendar full of clubs, sports and regular events, so that your child can enjoy their downtime.
They are sure to bump into likeminded people through a range of societies tailored to various audiences and interests, including the Christian Union, LGBT+ Society, Film Society, Fencing Society, Asian Society, Latin Society, Trust in Dance, to name just a few.
The RSU is an eco-friendly union dedicated to becoming environmentally sustainable.
It also champions great causes, such as drumming up support for Go Green Week, Fairtrade Fortnight, Children in Need, Sports Relief and Mental Health Day.
You’re not packing your child off to uni just for a certificate and a good time!
You need to know that you’re boosting their employability and long-term prospects.
Ravenbourne has an impressive post-graduation employment record and the best creative graduate salary rate among specialist universities in the UK.
Owed in part to our exceptional industry links with globally-renowned brands, we produce graduates who are truly equipped for the modern creative industry.
We can help your child get a job either during or after their studies with our online job portal, The Agency .
Meanwhile, Ravensbourne Insights offers expert advice on how to become a creative freelancer – from launching your own limited company to polishing your portfolio, CV, covering letter and interview technique.
Producing industry-fit graduates is embedded in our culture, so our degrees will offer optimal value to you and your child.
The Study Skills team at Ravensbourne can help your child become a more effective and independent learner throughout their academic journey, while our mentoring programme allows them to draw on the experience of experienced students, who can help solve problems and plan their academic development.
Each of our course clusters also has a dedicated student liaison officer, who can offer your child invaluable careers advice and information on opportunities in their chosen field.
All these things will help to ensure your child gets the most out of their academic adventure.
London is a multi-cultural Capital teeming with culture, while Ravensbourne University is at the heart of its creative core, where inquisitive minds unite from over 90 different nations.
Ravensbourne is dedicated to building a diverse community where everyone is equal.
Your son or daughter should expect to receive the same opportunities as everyone else, regardless of their gender, nationality or socio-cultural background.
All members of our community should be able to fully realise their creative potential and Ravensbourne takes unfair treatment, harassment, discrimination or abusive behaviour very seriously.
Learn more : equality, diversity and inclusion
If your child is considered to have a disability and would like to apply to go to Ravensbourne University London, you may be interested in learning more about the Disabled Student's Allowance scheme and the admission process for disabled students.
You and your child can call on the Student Services team if you wish to discuss any requirements in relation to a disability.
We can offer your child confidential advice, help them engage with any external support agencies, acquire specialist equipment and discuss any accessibility requirements.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/schools-and-outreach:
We have designed our outreach programme to give young people real insight into what it’s like to study creative and digital arts courses at university level.
We offer creative activities, offer pre-university advice and much more.
We are committed to widening participation in higher education, as we believe this is crucial to the future of our creative industries.
Explore our wide range of creative resources, made by our community of Ravensbourne tutors and students.
Find out more about the careers within the creative industries.
At the moment, our Outreach offer is very flexible in terms of what we can deliver.
We have holiday clubs, one off workshops, personal statement/portfolio/show reel support and more.
If you want something particular, or just want to learn more about Ravensbourne or careers in the creative industries get in touch!
The Ravensbourne Outreach team can cover a wide range of activities: Workshops, Holiday Schools and masterclasses are led by a number of fantastic sessional creative Tutors and Student Ambassadors.
Email: [email protected]
Twitter: @RavensbourneWP
Instagram: @raveoutreach
Ravensbourne is committed to improving equality of opportunity for underrepresented and disadvantaged groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
Our access and participation plan details work we are doing to close performance gaps for our students
Read an executive summary of our 2025-29 plan.
Read our 2025-29 Access and Participation plan.
We would love to invite groups in to Ravensbourne's North Greenwich campus for tours, subject tasters and masterclasses.
We can accommodate groups of up to 25 at this time.
We are hoping to be able to have more groups in from July onwards, if safe to do so.
If you would like to organise a school/group booking please fill out this form with as much information as possible.
A member of the Schools and Engagement team will be in touch to help organise your visit.
If you have any questions, get in touch with us on [email protected]
Creative Projects and Application support guides to help with portfolios, showreels and interviews
PDF – 2.08MB
PDF – 2.54MB
PDF – 4.57MB
@raveoutreach: Unable to create instagram post collector.
Our Outreach and student recruitment Team have a selection of services we can provide your students, ranging from on /off campus event, sessions, workshops and talks.
Please look at the list below to see what is the most suitable option for your students.
A presentation by a member of the Schools and Outreach team, to explore the Foundation and Undergraduate courses at Ravensbourne and how to apply.
Good for year 12 learners in Spring/Summer
Good for year 13 in Autumn.
Knowledge of Ravensbourne – courses, location, USPs.
Knowledge of HE/University
Positive interaction
Routes – FE or HE.
Industry  and careers.
G7.
Good for year 12 learners.
Includes tour of the campus
See the Facilities, location
A presentation by a member of the Schools and Outreach team, to support learners with applying to Undergraduate or Foundation courses at Ravensbourne University.
Support with Personal Statements, Portfolios and Showreels.
Designed for year 13 in Autumn Ideally.
Knowledge of Ravensbourne
How to make a good application.
Success in application.
Confidence in application
Applicants!!!
Positive interactions with Universities.
A member of the schools and outreach team can visit, and work with learners to give feedback on personal statements.
Sandwich – intro from Ravensbourne.
1-1 or group
A member of the schools and outreach team can deliver a brief presentation with tips for making the best possible portfolio or showreel for application to creative courses at university.
After the presentation, we can give 1-1 feedback to learners and share some project briefs to help develop ideas further.
Year 12 – June
Year 13 – November – March (fe)
Make successful applications.
Build confidence
8 ish.
A participatory workshop, where learners can participate in activities to learn about future careers in the creative and technology industries.
Pre 16
Year 11 and 12s
November – National creative careers week(13)
March – Careers Week ( 11s & 12s)
G2.
Future Pathways
Promote the smaller – niche courses!
(UX-UI, FBBM, MG, MSD,BE)
Drawing the course offering together – the marrying od business and createch.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/our-alumni:
Welcome to the Ravensbourne alumni community, you’re now part of an amazing network of creatives that spans right across the world.
Our network is an amazing resource that can help you navigate and progress in your career, regardless of when you graduated.
We are proud of our graduates who have taken the lessons learned at Ravensbourne, out into the world and are making a real impact.
We want you to stay in touch and share your journey with us.
Whether you're looking to take the first step on the creative ladder, considering postgraduate study or wish to support the next generation of students; the Ravensbourne alumni community is here to help.
Course: BA (Hons) Product Design
Year of Graduation: 1990
Jay Osgerby studied at Ravensbourne in the late 1980s and graduated in product design in 1990.
Having obtained his Masters’ degree in architecture at The Royal College of Art, Jay and fellow designer, Edward Barber founded renowned design studio Barber & Osgerby in 1996.
Barber & Osgerby have received many awards for their work, these include the Jerwood prize in 2004 and the accolade of Royal Designers for Industry (RDI) in 2007.
They were awarded honorary doctorates by several institutions and in 2013 they received the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to the design industry.
Permanent and prestigious collections worldwide house examples of their work, including the V&A Museum, London; New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art; London’s Design Museum and the Art Institute of Chicago.
Course: BA (Hons) Fashion
Year of Graduation: 1991
Clare received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the then Ravensbourne College of Art and a Master’s degree in knitwear from the Royal College of Art in London.
She began her career at Calvin Klein in New York designing women’s ready-to-wear before moving to Ralph Lauren to work on the men’s Purple Label collection.
She is now artistic director of Givenchy and famously designed Meghan Markle’s wedding gown.
In 2018 Clare visited the Ravensbourne Degree Show, taking the time to chat with staff and students and view the work.
Course : Television Programme Operations
Year of Graduation : 1993
Andi Osho studied Television Programme Operations at Ravensbourne, completing the Higher National Diploma in 1993.
She went on to establish a career as an actor, writer and award-winning stand-up comedian.
She has appeared in a variety of programmes from Mock the Week to Waking the Dead, and given performances as a stand-up comedian at Reading Festival, Michael McIntyre’s Comedy Roadshow, Live at The Apollo and many more.
Year of Graduation: 1984
Maria Cornejo was born in Chile and moved to England with her family when she was a child.
Her varied career spans London, Paris, Milan and Tokyo where she was part of the ground-breaking design partnership Richmond Cornejo, developed her own signature “Maria Cornejo” collection, and worked as a creative consultant for major retailers such as Joseph, Tehen and Jigsaw.
A champion of women, in the fashion industry and beyond, her work is guided by the idea of creating wearable luxury for real women.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/staff-and-student-policies:
Ravensbourne University and think-cell have made think-cell software available to staff and students for academic and non-profit use.
think-cell is an add-in for Microsoft Office, it enhances chart creation in PowerPoint and Excel and allows the creation of complex charts, such as waterfalls and Gantt charts.
For detailed information on think-cell and its features, or to get a better idea of how it works, please visit www.think-cell.com

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/concerns-and-complaints:
Ravensbourne cares about the wellbeing and safety of our students.
We want everyone to enjoy a fulfilling and rewarding educational experience during their studies
Sometimes there may be issues a student faces that need to be addressed, either as a safeguarding concern or as a complaint.
You may also want to raise your worries anonymously.
If you are worried about your own wellbeing or have concerns about a student at Ravensbourne, you may raise your concerns through the following options.
If you are considering raising a complaint that you would like Ravensbourne to consider formally then please review our outline of the official complaints process .
Ravensbourne recognises that some concerned individuals may not want to identify themselves.
Please take some time to review our anonymous reporting process to see if this meets your needs.
Review anonymous reporting process
If you have any concerns about your own welfare or that of another student please contact one of Ravensbourne’s designated safeguarding leads.
You can find out more and see our contact details on the Safeguarding page .
From September 2025 Ravensbourne is expanding how we support students around issues of sexual consent and misconduct.
You can find out more about the support available to students here.
You may also want to consider contacting our support team at Ravensbourne.
Student Services is here to provide ongoing support to students during their studies and can help with counselling, assistance discussing difficulties with your course and referrals to other services.
Get in touch with the Student Services team
The Ravensbourne Student Union is led by recent graduates of Ravensbourne with the full intention of representing the student's voice.
Their role is to make the student experience the best it can be, so discussing concerns and asking for change is a vital part of the way they work.
Contact the Students' Union team

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation:
Our Autumn/Winter graduation ceremonies will be held at the Barbican , on the dates below:
Graduates take to the stage at graduation 2022.
A view of the impressive Barbican Concert Hall at Ravensbourne graduation 2022.
Welcoming proud graduates to the stage at Ravensbourne graduation 2022.
Marta Phillips OBE addresses the crowd at Ravensbourne graduation 2022.
December 2023
Television presenter, author, and activist June Sarpong, and acclaimed photographer, entrepreneur, and social justice advocate, Misan Harriman, were awarded honorary doctorates by Ravensbourne University London.
They received these awards in recognition of their outstanding contributions to the fields of broadcasting and photography, respectively.
Have a look at the pages below and find out more about Graduation.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive:
We have so far worked closely with around 150 BBC graphic designers who have shared invaluable knowledge of the techniques used to create the works over the years.
The material can be streamed or is downloadable for non-commercial educational or research purposes only under the terms of the BBC’s Content Licence for the Motion Graphics Archive (link below).
Online uploads of the content are not permitted.
Archive usage agreement
For commercial use, please contact motion gallery.
To find out more about the site and project click here: more information

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events:
Ravensbourne runs an exciting programme of events including open days, talks, workshops and student shows.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/unibuddy:
Want to know what it's like to study at Ravensbourne?
Chat to our friendly students from a range of courses and study levels, as well staff representatives from our enquiries team.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/clearing:
Currently reading: How to prepare for Clearing
Clearing is a great opportunity to start university this September if you don’t yet have an offer, would like to change to another course, or your grades aren’t what you expected.
Please note: All outstanding documents and deposit payments must be received by these dates for CAS issuance.
Useful links:
We understand that Clearing can be a bit daunting but don't worry - we'll be here to guide you every step of the way.
Below you will find answers to some of the most frequently asked questions.
All courses in Clearing will be clearly marked on our Undergraduate courses page, as well as on our subject and course pages.
Yes!
If you’re joining Ravensbourne through Clearing, you can still apply for student finance to help cover tuition fees and living costs as normal.
Visit the official gov.uk website for guidance and to apply.
As soon as you receive an offer, we’ll email you with next steps on how to accept it.
We recommend choosing Ravensbourne as your UCAS Clearing choice as soon as possible.
This secures your place and lets you progress with the rest of your applications such as accommodation and finance.
If you don’t select us as your Clearing choice before the deadline stipulated in your offer email, it may prevent us from being able to confirm your place.
Have a question?
We're here to help!
You can contact our team by emailing us at [email protected] .
Our bursary scheme helps make the everyday costs of university life easier and can make a real difference.
You can see the bursaries we have available and check your eligibility on our Undergraduate bursaries page.
Nervous about giving us a call?
Don’t worry – our friendly team has lots of experience supporting students through Clearing and they will be able to help you through every step of the process.
If you’re not quite ready for degree-level study, don’t have the required qualifications, or would simply prefer to explore more creative subjects before choosing your degree, there are several options available for you:
We understand that Clearing can be stressful for students.
As a teacher or careers adviser, you can support your students by encouraging them to explore all their options.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with our Schools & Outreach team on [email protected] .
Clearing is how universities fill any remaining places on undergraduate courses.
It’s also your chance to apply if you haven’t received any offers, declined your offers, or applied late.
Ravensbourne University also offers entry routes such as Foundation Years and Access Programmes for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements or want to build skills before starting their degree.
You can apply through Clearing if:
Ravensbourne welcomes applicants to both undergraduate degrees and preparatory routes like our Foundation Year and Access Programme.
Clearing usually opens in early July and closes in mid-September.
Most students apply though Clearing on or after A level results day on 14 August, but you can apply earlier if you already have your results.
Yes.
International students can apply through Clearing.
If you need a student visa, apply as early as possible so you have time for the process.
We can advise you on your options, including Foundation Year pathways.
If you apply for Year 2 or Year 3 entry, we will forward your application to our admissions team for review.
We review applications as quickly as possible.
If you send us all the required information, you might receive an offer the same day, sometimes within the hour.
If we need to see a portfolio, it may take a little longer.
Yes, you can.
Just give us a call and we’ll check if there are places available on the course you’d like to change to.
Absolutely.
Give us a call first so we can make sure you meet the entry requirements and guide you through the next steps.
You’ll have 24 hours to let us know if you’d like to accept and add us as your Clearing choice through UCAS.
If you need more time, just let us know, we’re happy to help.
We work with local accommodation providers and can help you secure a place, but availability may be limited closer to September.
Contact us as soon as you accept your offer.
In UCAS Hub, you can only add one Clearing choice at a time, so choose carefully before confirming.
You don’t have to, but it can help you decide.
We offer campus tours, 360° videos, and live chats during Clearing so you can get a feel for Ravensbourne.
Once you’ve decided to accept, add it in UCAS as your Clearing choice.
We’ll confirm your place and send you your next steps.
It’s the final main route for the academic year.
If you don’t find a place through Clearing, you could apply to Ravensbourne for the next intake or next year or explore our Access Programme as a stepping stone to a degree
For many of our creative courses at Ravensbourne University London, you’ll need to submit a portfolio as part of your Clearing application.
Don’t worry if your portfolio isn’t perfect, we’re looking for your potential, creativity, and ideas, not just polished work.
You can include sketches, photography, digital projects, videos, or anything else that shows your skills and passion.
You can find clear guidance on what to prepare and how to send it to us here: Your interview, portfolio and showreel.
You’re welcome to apply through Clearing while waiting for your appeal results.
Any offers will be based on your current grades, but if your appeal changes your results, just let us know, we’ll be happy to review your application again.
I was going to take a gap year to work on my skills, but after receiving my college results I wanted to apply immediately.
I called the Ravensbourne hotline and booked a meeting.
We discussed my career plans and portfolio, and I was offered a place on my dream course the following day.
Tamika , BA (Hons) Digital Television Production
Clearing was actually really easy.
I put it off for a bit too long as I was so nervous it was going to be hard.
But I barely remember doing it as it was so straight-forward and I was supported the entire time.”
Maria , BA (Hons) Fashion

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/advertising-and-brand-design-students-win-new-blood-awards:
Two sets of Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students have won industry-renowned 'pencils' at the 2024 D&AD New Blood awards.
The D&AD New Blood Awards is a global competition that recognises creative excellence in design and advertising.
It attracts over 6,000 entries each year.
Entrants are judged by panels of leading industry members.
This prestigious award, represented by a pencil-shaped trophy, is a solid platform to kick-start careers for aspiring young creatives.
This year, we are proud to celebrate two groups of winners:
The students answered briefs set by real companies to enter.
The New Blood awards are a great opportunity for us as young creatives to show industry the potential we have to create change and do good in the world – we really hope our work shows this.”
Charlie Jones , Second-year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student
Charlie and Harriet completed a brief for Airbnb.
They proposed Airbnb Community , a service designed specifically with Gen Z in mind, who are digitally savvy and used to forming communities through social media.
Airbnb would be a platform that allows like-minded people to connect and meet up in local spaces based on their interests.
It also allows communities and clubs to host events and meet ups.
Ravinia and Leleese won for their Nandos 'Commit to Flavour' campaign, which urges Gen Z customers to make the chain their 'go-to destination' for eating out.
As an audience who are eager to seek out and try new foods, it utilises social media to instil loyalty and excitement among Gen Z customers, highlighting Nando's range of flavour combinations.
We are extremely proud of our students' achievements.
D&AD New Blood is an inspiring competition for the next generation of creative talent interested in the creative industry working towards a fairer more sustainable future.”
Paula Williams , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course leader
Charlie said: “Since first joining the course, we’ve always looked up to previous graduates that have won New Blood pencils, so we couldn’t believe it when we found out we had won.
“We are both so chuffed to win a pencil for work that addresses an issue we feel passionate about whilst having lots of fun creating it.
We couldn’t have done it without the hard work of our tutors Paula and Steve, huge thank you to them!”
The awards were presented by D&AD President 2023/24, Jack Renwick .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-university-london-completes-shift-towards-three:
In another watershed moment for Ravensbourne University London, the institution has now completed its move towards dividing its degree courses into three academic schools.
Friday 1 August 2025 saw the introduction of a new academic structure which seeks to bring specialist expertise to each of our key disciplines as well as new ways of learning with industry.
The School of Design, Media and the Creative Industries will be led by its Executive Dean, Andy Rees , whose engagement with Ravensbourne goes back many years.
The following departments will now be housed within their new school:
I am delighted to be continuing my long working relationship with Ravensbourne as the new Executive Dean for the School of Design, Media and the Creative Industries.
The focus of this newly-formed School will be integral in maintaining the University’s outstanding pedigree of producing exceptional talent capable of transforming the creative industries.”
Andy Rees , Executive Dean, School of Design, Media and the Creative Industries, Ravensbourne University London
Dr Kellie Vincent has been named the Executive Dean of the School of Business, Management and Commerce , in which the Department of Business will be situated.
As Executive Dean for the School of Business, Management and Commerce, I am committed to ensuring we support the development of business acumen and leadership potential in every student across our widest range of business disciplines fully adopting the Ravensbourne approach to collaborate with our creative and technology colleagues and learn with industry.”
Dr Kellie Vincent , Executive Dean, School of Business, Management and Commerce, Ravensbourne University London
Finally, we are delighted to welcome Dr Kevin Chalmers to Ravensbourne as he takes up the position of Executive Dean of the School of Computing, Architecture and Emerging Technologies .
This school will include the following departments:
I am immensely excited to have been appointed the Executive Dean for the School of Computing, Architecture and Emerging Technologies.
By harnessing the latest industry innovations, Ravensbourne students will be equipped with the skills, expertise and know-how required to future-proof their education and adeptly navigate the sectors we serve.”
Dr Kevin Chalmers , Executive Dean, School of Computing, Architecture and Emerging Technologies
The University’s new academic structure is yet another reflection of Ravensbourne’s commitment to delivering on the 2025-2030 corporate strategy outlined earlier this year.
The three schools will bring a greater level of focus on our key disciplines, enabling us to continue to enrich the prospects of our coveted pool of talent as well as drive change in the creative, technology and business sectors.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/research/ravensbourne-university-london-research-uncovers-heavy-reliance:
A new national research report released by Ravensbourne University London has revealed that informal channels, such as conversations with family members, social media, influencers and YouTube, have eclipsed traditional careers services as the primary source of careers information, advice and guidance (CIAG).
The findings of the report, Next Gen Careers: Aspirations and access , were informed by a survey of 3,000 16-21-year-old respondents conducted by Censuswide .
Participants told us that family members are the single biggest influence on their careers decisions (24%), followed by social media, influencers and YouTube (21%).
CIAG providers, however, were sixth in order of preference, with just 16% of respondents stating that they receive careers guidance through more traditional means.
PDF – 15.87MB
The research also uncovered a scattered and confusing experience of traditional CIAG, with many stating they didn’t feel adequately equipped with the information they needed to make informed careers decisions.
Fewer than a third of respondents (31%) believed they’d received clear and helpful CIAG, while over half (58%) said they did not understand the route from education into industry.
Addressing this disparity is not only a matter of fairness, but of economic necessity.
To ensure that every young person is equipped to thrive in an ever-evolving workplace, we must strengthen collaboration between industry, careers services and education.
Only by working together can we bridge the information gap, open up opportunity and ensure that the next generation enters the workforce with the confidence, skills and direction they deserve.”
Jon Kingsbury , Vice Chancellor, Ravensbourne University London
Responses also highlighted the risk of an impending skills mismatch.
Only 64% of young people indicated that they knew which job they wanted within five years, while 55% of roles with a Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) code were not selected.
When polled on where they would ideally like to receive CIAG, respondents listed work experience placements as their top priority, selected by 22% of young people.
This suggests that more exhaustive opportunities to collaborate with industry could be a workable way forward to help address the issues outlined by the report.
At Ravensbourne University London, we see first-hand the transformative power of timely, relevant careers guidance and work placements, yet our research demonstrates that, for many, that guidance remains out of reach.”
If you are interested in this report and want to get in touch, or if you would like to collaborate with us to make the workplace more accessible to young people, we would love to hear from you.
You can email us at [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-announces-appointment-five:
Ravensbourne University London has announced the appointment of five new professorships, conferred to current academic colleagues from the University’s community.
The new professors are:
Each new professor was announced at Ravensbourne’s summer Graduation ceremonies , held at London’s Barbican Centre on 30 June 2025.
The conferment of the title of Professor recognises outstanding distinction within a particular subject or area of interest, together with leadership and a contribution to strategic objectives of the University.
As Professors, they will play a pivotal role in contributing to development of our academic provision, supporting students in effective learning and research.
They will continue to play a critical role in the development of our Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy.” ”
Professor Simon Robertshaw , Deputy Vice Chancellor, Ravensbourne University London
The appointment of the new professors will also bolster the University’s submission to the 2029 Research Excellence Framework (REF) and the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
Further encouraging the development of research and knowledge exchange initiatives is a core principle of Ravensbourne’s 2030 strategy and these appointments serve as a testament to our commitment to this principle.
Many congratulations once again to our new Ravensbourne professors!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/next-gen-careers-collaborating-better-careers-guidance:
This webinar, Next Gen Careers: Collaborating for better careers guidance , is an offshoot of our recently published research report which found that there was a significant shortage of clear and useful careers information, advice and guidance (CIAG) in its traditional form.
A survey of 3,000 young people found that many were getting most of the insights into their prospective careers from informal sources, such as family and social media yet would prefer to learn about careers via work placement opportunities.
You can access all of the findings by reading the full report .
Next Gen Careers: Collaborating for better careers guidance
Date: Wednesday 24 September
Time: 3.30pm-5pm
Description: The campaign has highlighted that one of the primary barriers to young people entering their field of choice is the lack of access to sufficient careers advice, guidance and resources.
The webinar will harness the insights of educators, employers and young people as we seek workable solutions which not only improve the efficacy of careers provision in the UK but also broaden access for all to high-quality employability resources.
Agenda

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/open-day-saturday-11-october-2025:
Open days, evenings and building tours showcase what Ravensbourne has to offer.
During the event you’ll be able to:
Before the event, a timetable with the days events will be circulated.
If you wish to attend multiple course talks.
Once you have secured your place, we will send you information about the event, including directions to our building and details of what to expect on the day.
If you have any questions about the open day please email us .
Find out more information about our Venue Accessibility.
There are a number of routes how to get to Ravensbourne .
We are situated on the North Greenwich Peninsula and can be reached via the Jubilee Line from central London.
Other transport options include the DLR, National Rail, Thames Clipper and bus.
A number of TfL bus routes also operate to and from North Greenwich.
Our address is; Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, Greenwich Peninsula, SE10 0EW.
There are no longer any covid-19 government restrictions in England.
For your safety, face masks are encouraged in crowded areas, but it is your personal choice if you would like to wear one.
Hand sanitizer will remain available throughout the building.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/open-day-saturday-22-november-2025:
If you require help accessing our event, let us know by emailing [email protected] and we'd be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/alumni-stories-chris-chuky-and-tony-longe:
Currently reading: Video interview
Since graduating from the BA (Hons) Digital Film Production course in 2016, Chris Chuky and Tony Longe have enjoyed phenomenal success in their respective fields.
Both friends began their creative journeys studying on the Foundation course in Media Production course at Ravensbourne.
With relentless energy and drive, it was evident from their very first day at university that they were destined for great things.
Chris is an award-winning director, writer and actor who has produced numerous internationally recognised narrative-based music videos.
He has been awarded multiple awards and accolades for his work, including appearing in Guap Magazine and Adidas’ 30 Under 30, which celebrates Black talent across multiple industries.
As part of the nomination, Chris’ face appeared on the largest advertising display in Europe, The Piccadilly Lights billboard in Piccadilly Circus.
He is now accepted as a BAFTA Connect member in recognition of his considerable contribution to the film industry.
I think the beauty of being at Ravensbourne is that you can try whatever you want to do… you can try it multiple times until you find what your strengths are.”
Chris Chuky , Film Director, BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate
Tony Longe is a freelance creative producer specialising in film and promos.
In 2022, he produced the short film ‘Precious Hair and Beauty’ which was directed by John Ogunmuyiwa and selected for the BFI London Film Festival and Sundance Film Festival and nominated for Best Short Film at both festivals as well as the BIFAs (The British Independent Film Awards).
We were very ambitious when we were at Ravensbourne, we were hungry… and we were able to accomplish a lot with that sort of mindset.
Tony Longe , Creative Producer, Executive Producer, BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate
This summer, Chris and Tony ran a Film Summer School at Ravensbourne for aspiring creatives aged 14+.
As part of the summer school activities, participants collaborated in groups of 6-8 to adapt a Shakespeare play of their choice for screen.
Under the expert guidance of Chris and Tony, a few of the groups made trailers, some shot a shortened version of the main plot and others focused on just one scene.
All the equipment used was supplied by Ravensbourne’s Kit Store.
On the final day, the teams shared their final edited films and posters, and Chris and Tony marked them on skills such as cinematography, storytelling, narrative, direction, sound and poster design.
The two winning teams produced adaptations of Hamlet and Macbeth and won a day on set with Chris and Tony.
The Film Summer School was one of a series of Summer Schools organised annually by the Schools and Outreach team , to get young people involved in exciting creative projects.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/natasha-nickson:
It was Natasha's passion for sustainability, alongside the skills and experience she gained while at Ravensbourne, which led to her securing the position of Sustainability Coordinator at ethical clothing brand, Lucy and Yak.
During her course, she dedicated time to researching sustainable fabrics and practices.
This impressed her employer and made her stand out amongst other graduates.
Her role involves a lot of travel as she coordinates pop-up events across the country, speaks at climate strikes on behalf of the brand.
She also frequently travels to India to visit the factories where the clothes are produced.
Natasha was originally drawn to Ravensbourne because of its modern approach to teaching and its strong industry focus.
As part of her course, she visited Sri Lanka to see first-hand how a factory works, which helped to put her projects into context.
She also learnt to use industry-standard software such as Abode InDesign and Google Draw, which she regularly uses in her current role.
Talks from guest lecturers within the industry provided her with valuable insight into the different jobs she could pursue after graduation.
Natasha’s advice to new students is to take the time to discover what you are passionate about while at University.
Commenting on this she said, ‘The best way to explore what you love is to do internships in different roles and gain as much experience as you can.
Don’t get too focused on a goal and be open to new experiences.’
Natasha studied BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/grad-glow-makeup-artist-ophelia-liu-and-jasmine-macphee:
Award-winning make-up artist Ophelia Liu and CEO Jasmine MacPhee join forces for a one-of-a-kind interview.
Both are Ravensbourne fashion alumni and have enjoyed incredible success in their chosen fields.
Here, Jasmine interviews Ophelia and poses questions from our community.
Watch the video interview and learn what it takes to be a globally-renowned creative.
Ophelia Liu graduated from Ravensbourne in 2017 with a degree in Fashion Apparel Design and was crowned the winner of BBC Three’s 2020 show Glow Up: Britain’s Next Make-Up Star.
She won a prestigious contract to assist leading figures in the make-up industry.
Ophelia previously worked on London Fashion Week two years in a row and won VF Corporation's Future Of Denim competition in collaboration with Ravensbourne.
Since winning Glow Up , Ophelia Liu has taken to Instagram to showcase her art with over half a million followers eagerly anticipating her next make-up masterpiece.
Ophelia answers questions on the future of the make-up world, her signature creative style and what aspiring creatives can look forward to beyond graduation.
Ophelia is interviewed by independent freelance graphic designer Jasmine MacPhee, who is the Founder and CEO of Find Your Intern (FYI).
A fellow Ravensbourne Fashion Promotion alumna, Jasmine created her company as her final major project whilst studying at Ravensbourne.
The FYI platform exclusively advertises paid-only internships and has evolved into a flourishing membership community.
Jasmine started her career interning for Cosmopolitan and Harper’s Bazaar, as well as freelancing at Marie Claire Runway, UGG and M&S.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/alumni-stories-senior-motion-designer-seth-wallis:
Welcome to our Alumni stories series, where we interview graduates about what Ravensbourne meant to them, where they are now, and what advice they can offer our new and current students.
Seth Wallis is a motion graphic designer who graduated from the BA (Hons) Motion Graphics course in 2015.
Since graduating, he has worked in a mixture of freelance and agency roles and is currently working as a senior motion designer at Born Social , a global social media agency based in London.
As well as being a skilful creative, he is also a member of award-winning ska reggae band Chainska Brassika.
The nine-piece band have performed at massive festivals like Glastonbury and recorded an album at the famous Harry J Studio in Jamaica, where Bob Marley also recorded.
We caught up with him to discuss his own career journey and to hear his tips on how to become a successful motion designer.
There are a few people that I've kept in contact with from Ravensbourne and they are all doing really well – it's inspiring.
Everyone's at different levels and have gone through different things.
It's impressive to see the growth within people.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dev-joshi:
Dev was already planning his big move into industry before he had graduated.
His time researching his favourite companies and building up a portfolio of work paid off when he completed a three-week internship in Dubai.
He later secured a full-time position at his dream studio, Animade.
Dev wasn’t even sure he wanted to go to university, but when he learnt that Ravensbourne’s foundation course offered a mixture of graphic design, fashion, 3d design, photography and animation, he was impressed .
It was the diversity of the course that appealed to him because it gave him the freedom to learn about many creative pathways and careers.
With the ability to trial so many disciplines, he soon realised that his passion was in motion graphics.
From there he studied on the Motion Graphics degree course at Ravensbourne.
The highlight of Dev's time at Ravensbourne was learning from the expert lecturers and collaborating with fellow students.
Commenting on this he said, 'it's such a great feeling to be surrounded by people who care about the field of work and are so supportive of each other, lifelong friends and contacts have been made for sure'.
Another highlight of his time was the creation of a film for his final major project.
He said that this was, ‘in a sense a love letter about the journey I’d experienced to become a motion designer whilst at Ravensbourne’.
The topics Dev learnt on his course were broad enough to develop the direction of his own work and his unique identity.
He was taught industry standard software and so straight out of university he was proficient using the likes of After Effects, Photoshop and Illustrator and could apply these skills to a variety of jobs.
Dev studied BA (Hons) Motion Graphics

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/why-last-minute-move-london-was-best-decision-my-life:
Ester Wikström was always destined for great things.
Since she was just 12-years-old, she knew she wanted to make her mark in the creative world.
A partnership with her design university in Sweden and Ravensbourne offered Ester the chance to study in London on the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course.
It gave her access to the unparalleled creative opportunities within the city.
Before she'd even graduated, Ester and a friend had already scooped a prestigious D&AD Yellow Pencil Award.
The course's strong industry connections and Ester's natural talent and drive meant that she had already been offered positions at two leading agencies before she'd even graduated.
She now works at renowned design agency JKR , working with some of the biggest brands on the planet.
We caught up with her to find out more about her time at Ravensbourne and how it helped propel her to where she is today.
I was, it was great fun, if a little bit strange being on the other end of the table as a teacher rather than the student.
It doesn't feel like long ago that I was in their position, so having students listen to me as a professional is quite surreal.
I was there to give some advice to the current third year students in preparing entries for D&AD New Blood Part, which was part of the course's ‘How I won my Pencil’ workshop series.
So straight after finishing the degree show in June 2021 I was thrown in the deep end and had a couple of different agencies reach out to me and wanted to hire me.
I was extremely lucky in that sense.
I am now working at the creative design agency JKR in London.
Getting this role was a dream come true for me, as my main goal was to work amongst the best agencies in the world.
That's what I get to do every day – sometimes I have to pinch myself that this is my everyday life.
So I’m either working from home or heading into the office and working with some of the biggest brands in the world.
We work with them to develop creative brand identities and have lots of fun in the process.
I can’t say specifically what brands I am working on, but I can say that we’ve just released a rebrand of M&Ms .
It was amazing to see the craft of my team members now out in the real world.
So I had quite a weird way into industry I think.
I’ve always known since I was like 12-years-old that I wanted to work in the creative industries, but I didn’t know specifically which area I wanted to go into; whether I wanted to become a copywriter or a brand designer or a graphic designer.
I ended up representing Sweden and The Swedish National Skills team in EuroSkills and WorldSkills , where I got to compete against some of the world's best designers.
After getting the chance to compete and to represent my country as a graphic designer, I knew where my strengths and talents were.
I have always wanted to be surrounded by the best people in the world and I realised that if I wanted to make that come true, then I needed to continue down this path.
I initially went to a communications university in Sweden called Berghs .
At the time they had a programme called the Berghs' bachelor.
As part of this programme you start off studying there, and then go abroad to complete your degree programme.
At the time I was pretty sure that I wanted to go to Sydney, but then on the last day of the allocation process, London was also thrown into the mix because someone mentioned Ravensbourne to me.
When I looked into Ravensbourne, I realised that it offered so much more than just putting a degree in your hands.
Straight away, you were working with industry, and this suited me, and my way of working perfectly.
I’m definitely a learning-by-doing type of person.
And the fact that the university was in such a central location in London too – you’re literally in such a central hub for design in Europe and the rest of the world really.
I was also drawn to Ravensbourne because the course itself was so broad.
It gave you the creative freedom to really explore different avenues and understand where you wanted to focus your attention.
I just knew from the get-go that it would be the place to teach me all the tools that I needed.
I would say multiple things, but the opportunity to network is a big one.
Some of my friends that studied elsewhere in comparison, okay so they had a nice portfolio, but they didn’t know the industry players in the same way that people on my course did.
We were being mentored by people in the industry, and I secured my first internship thanks to that networking power.
The course really is a fast track to industry, because when you graduate, you already have those all-important contacts.
It is really is hard to pick, but I’d say professionally the whole of third year.
Me and my creative partner and fellow advertising student, Mica Helger won the D&AD Yellow Pencil for our project called ' For the Procrastinators ' which was a brief from Fossil & MSL.
Winning D&AD Young Blood Work for the brief 'The procrastinators' set by Fossil & MSL
This award is really highly regarded in the industry and showcases young talent in the design and advertising space.
It is only given out for really exceptional work, so to receive this accolade was truly incredible.
Personally, I would say the fact that I got to spend my entire university experience with people just as passionate as me.
It was a massive learning experience too, not just from people on my course, but across the whole institution.
A couple of my closest friends were film students, and they taught me something new every single day.
It’s a really inspiring environment to be in, plus you never know when those connections and little bits of insights that you’ve gathered might serve you later down the line in your career.
I was quite a cocky 12-year old I think, and my goal was always to be amongst the very best in my profession.
But there was this preconception that designers were these white men in black turtlenecks and that it was a tough industry to crack.
Ravensbourne helped me to realise that it was possible to break that glass ceiling and make my mark, in a previously male dominated industry.
Ravensbourne gave me the tools and the connections to flourish.
I met the right people to be able to pursue my dreams.
I would say student life at Ravensbourne wasn’t exactly atypical, especially when compared to the life my friends were living in Sweden.
In Sweden it’s probably all a bit more relaxed.
One of the main benefits of student life at Ravensbourne and in London is that you meet people from so many different walks of life.
I t’s London, it’s gritty and it can be in-your-face at times.
But everyone is very unique and being true to themselves.
It was an incredible life experience to be able to study in this city.
I was doing some freelance work up until the end of my second year alongside my studies, but then I realised the pressure was getting a bit much.
For that reason in my third year I decided to concentrate purely on my studies.
I think I would have to say the project we worked on at the end of second year.
We had two real life clients come in to work with us.
It was an amazing feeling and so rewarding to work on a project right from inception to the finished article, so early on in my career too.
Remember to enjoy the experience, because it goes so much faster than you think.
But also, just always make the effort to be interested in everyone you meet.
You never know when those connections will come in handy, and the broader your perspectives are in terms of your creative parameters, the more likely you’ll be able to produce some really career-defining work.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/ope-odueyungbo:
Since leaving Ravensbourne, Ope has built a highly successful career as a freelance photographer and social media influencer.
He now has over 85,000 followers on his Instagram account @greatarsenal and has recently released his first book Parallel Lines.
What initially appealed to you about Ravensbourne and your chosen degree?
I knew so much talent within various creative fields were (and still are) nurtured at Ravensbourne.
Ravensbourne was always spoken highly of, but I think what sealed the deal for me was knowing I’d be the first year to experience the new North Greenwich campus.
I was built up with so much excitement at the time, I couldn’t really picture myself going anywhere else.
I was in the very first year they ran the BA (Hons) Digital Photography course so I didn’t really know what to expect.
I definitely took a bit of a gamble there, but I’m so glad I did!
Could you tell us about the benefits of studying with us?
The tutors were very helpful in supporting me along the path I wanted to follow in terms of my photography.
I remember Julian Hawkins especially.
He always pushed me to follow my vision and supported me in the way I wanted to do things.
My fellow students were cool people and I’m still in touch with quite a few today.
As a group we definitely had our ups and downs, but always managed to get through it.
We weren’t a very big group, but everyone on the course had their own style and passion for a particular field of photography.
Could you tell us a little bit about what you have done since graduating - where are you working and what does your typical day look like?
Since leaving Ravensbourne, I have developed a career as a freelance photographer and social media influencer.
It wasn’t easy to begin with!
I had the idea that by the time I graduated I’d be working comfortably in a full-time job of my choice but this wasn’t the case.
I had to settle for a job in hospitality which I used to fund my photography — I did this for about two and a half years.
Working a job I wasn’t really keen on, I felt it was always important to keep my creativity flowing.
I’d use my free time to go out networking and shooting with like-minded people while of course keeping the business side of my social media active.
You never know which potential client could be keeping a close eye on the content you post.
With that in mind, I made it my mission to upload the best of my work on a regular basis in order to attract the kind of companies I wanted to work with.
Could you tell us a bit about some of your favourite brands to work with?
I did a promo with Huawei recently, having previously done some work with them which they absolutely loved.
One of the creative agencies that they partnered with contacted me via email to ask if the promo video was something I’d be interested in getting involved in.
I had to say yes - there was no hesitation!
It’s always a nice feeling representing a huge brand like Huawei, especially when they come to you.
The first time I was approached by them was purely off the back of a public relations company seeing my Instagram feed and offering me the opportunity to create visual content for one of their social media campaigns.
Adidas, Puma, Timberland, Nokia and BMW have been some of my other favourite brands to work with.
I’m proud of what I’ve achieved so far.
I think the biggest achievement is getting to travel to do what I love.
There was a job I did with the rum brand Havana Club in which they flew me to Cuba to document anything and everything.
The brief was so broad it didn’t even feel like I was working!
Another one I’ll never forget is getting to work with Arsenal Football Club — I’m a massive fan, so there's no topping that!
The fact that I’m doing what I love for a living is a major achievement in itself.
Do you have any advice for prospective students?
I would encourage current students to never lose passion to continue doing what you love even when things aren’t so positive.
Consistency really is the key.
I’ve found the more you do something the better you’ll get, people will eventually see your desire and everything else will follow.
Ope studied BA (Hons) Digital Photography

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/what-does-it-take-launch-successful-creative-content-business:
Emily Chow is a first-class BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate who graduated in 2021.
She has recently moved into Ravensbourne’s Incubation space inside the new Institute for Design and Creativity , in the Design District.
From her new base, she has big plans to build her current photography business, Emztography , and has recently launched a second creative content business called That Social with fellow Ravensbourne course mate, Miles Capp.
We caught up with her to talk about her university experience and how she manages her time between two businesses.
I am self-employed, and I have my own business – I’ve been growing my business for the last three years.
I am a photographer and videographer and work with a mixture of business-to-business and consumer clients.
I’ve also just launched a new business with my fellow course mate, Miles Capp.
We worked together on several projects while at Ravensbourne, so we decided to go into business together.
Our new business is called That Social, and we create social media content for businesses, in the form of photography and video.
In terms of my day-to-day, every day looks very different.
If I’m not on a shoot, I’m usually in my office in the Institute for Creativity and Technology , in the Design District.
When I’m in the office, I could be editing a photo or planning a treatment for a project I’m working on.
I liked that it was a really specialist university and that it was in London.
I’m from London originally, and I didn’t really see the point of going away for university when the industry I wanted to work in was based right here.
So the location was a big selling point and I liked that it was so industry focused.
When I was looking around at other universities, there really wasn’t anything that was offering that industry focus straight from the start.
Ravensbourne really stood out for that.
I think it is about the people that I’ve been able to meet here and the opportunities I’ve had access to.
The tutors here are incredibly supportive.
I’m still in touch with some of my tutors today and they’ve helped me enormously to realise my own potential.
I think everyone is really driven here.
I don’t think it was a normal university experience, as everyone is very focused on building their career; even from day one.
The lecturers were really encouraging when it came to finding work, too.
A lot of the students were completing work placements while they were studying.
Emily Chow and Miles Capp – two BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduates and the founders of content agency, That Social.
I think winning the Incubation Award was definitely a highlight for me.
Incubation is a collective of businesses working within Ravensbourne’s new Institute for Creativity and Technology.
It provides commercial support to graduates and businesses in the form of accelerator programmes, business mentoring as well as lots of opportunities for commercial partnerships.
It has been amazing for me to have my own space within the Design District.
In my final year, having the opportunity to pitch for a commission with Amazon and the children’s charity, Barnardo’s, was a really significant moment too.
For this project, I worked with Miles, my now business partner, and that’s when we realised how well we gelled as a team.
The last part of my university experience was all done on Zoom because of the pandemic, so obviously, that was a massive change.
I think everyone on my course tried to make the most of it though, despite it being a very difficult time.
I would have to say a special thanks to Sunita Bhuwanee, the Business Support Manger at Incubation.
She helped me so much to get set up here in the Institute.
My lecturers were also really encouraging, they always pushed me to follow my dreams.
The course provided a really important support network.
I think coming from a secondary school that was really focused on grades, it was really refreshing to realise that at Ravensbourne, this wasn’t the primary focus.
The primary focus was all about getting you out into the creative world and pushing you to realise your own potential.
During the third year, most of my university experience was on Zoom.
Obviously, that was really hard, but everyone on the course really rallied together at this time.
I think Ravensbourne students in general are so switched on.
University experience is less about partying for three years and more about working towards your future career.
It was such a great time, and I met some really incredible people.
I think because it's quite a small institution too, it feels really tight knit.
The way that the building is laid out helps with making connections because you keep passing the same people on the stairs or in the café.
There is very much a culture of just going up to people and saying hi.
Everyone within my course, and in the university, tries to champion each other too - that’s something that I really like.
It was definitely the corporate specialism module with Mark Londsdale, one of the lecturers on the BA (Hons) Digital Film Production course at Ravensbourne.
I think it was during this module that I realised that I didn’t want to go into the film world.
It made me realise that I’d much prefer to work on campaigns and commercials and to work closely with brands.
Mark was great at championing students that were particularly passionate about moving into the commercial space, as this was where his own experience was.
We are still in touch now actually and he’s helped me secure quite a lot of work.
There are so many areas that you can move into within film; from documentaries to music videos and from commercials to feature films.
I think the way the course was structured, and the different specialisms helped you to hone in on what area you wanted to pursue.
I think just get yourself out there and meet new people.
Don’t be afraid to go up and talk to people, your lecturers included.
A lot of them are working in industry, or if not, they will have previously worked in industry, so they really are a wealth of knowledge.
There won’t be many times in your life when you get the opportunity to just create and to discover what it is that you want to do, so use the time wisely.
Don’t wait till you graduate to start building your career.
In my first year, I was already building my freelance business.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/chelsea-boyce:
With a creative mind and an aptitude for success, it's no wonder Chelsea has thrived since she graduated from the BA Fashion Buying and Brand Management course in 2018.
With a strong work ethic and encouragement from her tutors, Chelsea was awarded a First in her degree.
She then went on to secure a role as Menswear Buying Admin Assistant at Urban Outfitters straight after graduation.
She is now putting her creative talents to the test, working as Creative Copywriter and Graphic Designer at creative agency Sophie Co, based in Sydney, Australia.
The wide range of areas that are covered on the course around the business of fashion.
Also, the opportunity to travel on various trips to expand my knowledge and experience of the fashion industry.
The fact that the year groups were smaller in comparison to larger universities gave me the chance to have more time and personal support with the wonderful tutors to help with my projects.
As Ravensbourne is such a creative university, I was able to collaborate with students from different courses to compliment my own projects.
During my degree, I had the chance to work with students across multiple disciplines such as Photography, Film, Architecture and Fashion Design.
I’m a very creative thinker, so I really enjoyed studying Fashion Buying and Brand Management, as it allowed me to develop my own creative style.
I loved seeing the final outcome after completing my projects.
What were your highlights from your time at Ravensbourne?
Travelling to Sri Lanka to visit factories to learn about ethical and sustainable manufacturing was an incredible experience and such a fun trip.
Graduating with a First was a very proud and exciting moment for me, which took a lot of hard work and brilliant support from my tutors.
Also, making lifelong friends along the way was also a big bonus, which I’m very grateful for!
How has your degree at Ravensbourne helped you to achieve your professional goals?
My degree taught me a lot about how businesses are run and the different areas of expertise that come together to make up a successful company.
I landed my first job after university at Urban Outfitters as a Menswear Buying Admin Assistant, which was amazing.
I am now using the digital design skills I developed on my course and working at a creative agency.
I'm also working on some of my own projects too.
Could you tell us a little bit about what you have done since graduating?
Where are you working and what does your typical day look like?
I worked at Urban Outfitters as Buying Admin Assistant (BAA) for over a year.
I now do contract-based work including Creative Copywriting and Graphic Design for Sophie Co.
We are a small company made up of creatives working collaboratively across the globe.
Do you have any advice for prospective Ravensbourne students?
Work hard, dream big and collaborate!
Be open to all the learning opportunities provided, as this will open the doors for so many different opportunities in industry.
Chelsea studied BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education:
Currently reading: Overview
Our foundation diplomas will offer you a strong introduction to all the subject areas that Ravensbourne has to offer.
They will help you assess your strengths and build your skillsets in your specialist area of interest.
A combination of creative studio projects, workshops and traditional academic learning will encourage you to experiment with practical and digital technology.
Practicing industry professionals will guide you and introduce you to new ideas in Fashion, Design, Digital Media and 3D practices.
You will gain additional skills in life drawing, styling, photography, critical thinking and Adobe creative suite, and be part of the broader programme of events and activities at Ravensbourne.
Completing a foundation course will put you in a strong position.
Our students benefit from exposure to the undergraduate experience, enabling them to hit the ground running in their first year.
When you pass your foundation or access course, you are automatically guaranteed a place at Ravensbourne to continue your studies.
Our enhanced internal progression scheme will provide strong support for your progression to your chosen undergraduate course.
If you decide to go directly into work, we'll also help you to find out what opportunities are available.
Find out more about our FE to UG progression scheme.
Our Access to Higher Education courses are validated by the Open College Network, London (OCN) and our Foundation Diploma courses are validated by the UAL Awarding Body.
Students flourish in the inclusive and professional learning environment that leaders and staff have created.
They appreciate the high-quality teaching and support they receive from well-qualified staff who have extensive experience in the creative and digital industries.
They take great pride in showing the unique and inspirational work that they produce.”
Ofsted report , January 2025
I began the foundation course at Ravensbourne not knowing exactly what I wanted to do, but I was able to experiment with a wide range of creative roles.
Inspired by the broadcasting department I went on to complete a BA (Hons) Production, which gave me valuable industry experience.”
Will Harvey , Foundation alumnus Innovation Lead, VCCP

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-courses:
Currently reading: Animation and Games

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study:
Currently reading: Postgraduate courses
We bring together a vibrant global community of practitioners, disruptors and communicators.
All our postgraduate courses have been designed with industry, for industry and reflect our broad creative focus.
Explore our range of courses.
We are delighted to launch a suite of postgraduate courses with innovation and entrepreneurship at their heart.
Our master’s courses are designed to nurture great creative leaders and innovators for tomorrow.
The courses draw on the knowledge, methods and approaches from a broad range of design, business and creative specialisms, which combine applied research, management and business incubation.
Ravensbourne University London’s postgraduate courses embrace the following values.
The value of design thinking is used not only as a problem-solving method or as a means of visualising new products and services, but in its wider application to business strategy, business models and organisational change.
When approaching design and creative practices, real innovation comes from gaining a deep understanding of users’ wants, needs and aspirations.
By understanding what target audiences like or dislike about the way existing services and brands are designed marketed, and supported, you will be able to innovate solutions that truly matter, gain traction and ultimately improve lives.
Covering diverse approaches to innovation, branding, design strategy and business development, you will develop your brand story alongside the creative process and service itself, to create deep empathy with markets, communities and stakeholders around your vision.
There is an increasing need for entrepreneurs, innovators, creative and design professionals to gain a global and wider societal perspective and a critical understanding of the challenges facing the creative and global economy in the 21st century.
You will approach each discipline through live projects and industry-based learning, which will include collaboration and knowledge sharing with professional organisations.
You will develop your innovation and leadership mindset, which will instil the confidence to devise original approaches to creative practice, strategy, social, organisational and business innovation problems.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us:
Ravensbourne University London is a dynamic institution at the intersection of creativity, business, and technology.
Based in London’s Design District in the heart of North Greenwich, we are home to a diverse, global community in one of the world’s most vibrant business and creative hubs.
We learn with industry; industry learns with us and together we transform lives.
With cutting-edge facilities and strong industry connections, we empower students with the skills, knowledge, experience and connections needed to thrive in their careers and lives.
Our courses foster collaboration, innovation and real-world learning, preparing graduates to become leaders in their fields.
Recognised for excellence, we have been ranked Top 10 in the UK for student employability by Uni Compare, named as a top 5 University in London by Student Crowd, hold a Silver rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) and are the only university worldwide to receive RIBA accreditation for both Architecture and Interiors courses.
With 89% of our graduates in skilled work or further education 15 months after graduation, students leave Ravensbourne ready to enter their chosen field within the creative, technology and business sectors.
Our place in the top 10 for employability in Uni Compare rankings is a reflection of the fact that our courses are designed with the needs of industry at their core.
By integrating industry teachings from employers and leaders in each of our creative, technology and business fields, Ravensbourne students have access to unique insights into their chosen sectors from the day they join us.
Nominations in the Postgraduate and International categories at the 2025 Whatuni Student Choice Award are a testament to the world-class education Ravensbourne provides regardless of the level of study.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/external-examiners:
If there is a policy that is not listed below, please email: [email protected]
PDF – 118.93KB
XLSX – 71.15KB
XLSX – 58.48KB
PDF – 170.38KB
PDF – 73.29KB
PDF – 250.91KB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students:
Currently reading: Welcome
We proudly welcome students from all corners of the globe.
Currently, we have students from 100 different nationalities studying with us.
With our excellent reputation and impressive graduate employment rates, we are a top choice for international students.
Our reputation and high graduate employment rates make us an excellent choice for both international and national students.
We're the definitive destination for studying the latest innovative digital media and design courses in the UK.
This is partly down to the calibre of our teaching staff, partly down to our outstanding facilities and our unrivalled location next to the world-famous O2 .
We understand the needs of international students and can advise and support on matters relating to English language, our courses, accommodation, finance and much more.
Complete this short contact form and someone will be in touch within one or two working days.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/location:
Our address :
Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, Greenwich Peninsula, SE10 0EW
Take the Jubilee Line to North Greenwich (Zone 2).
We are:
The Jubilee line is the only Underground route that connects with every other tube line.
So, not only can you reach us easily by the Underground, but North Greenwich tube station is also accessible to National Rail passengers from all over the UK too.
Our campus is conveniently located, just a two minute stroll from North Greenwich Underground station.
When you leave the station, just follow the signs to The O2 and continue along the covered walkway.
Before you reach the main entrance of The O2, turn right onto Penrose Way and Ravensbourne's entrance is on your right.
Eight TFL bus routes operate to and from North Greenwich including three 24 hour bus services.
Key destinations include Stratford, Charlton, Greenwich, Lewisham, Woolwich, Eltham, North Kent and Central London.
Please visit the Tfl website for timetable information.
We have a small loading bay at the rear of the building for pick up and set down only.
We advise if you are parking for the day to use Car Park 4 in Cutter Lane which is 3 minutes walk from Ravensbourne.
Follow signs for the O2 which is clearly signposted and easily accessible from the M25, the A2/A20 (from the South East) and the M11 (from the North).
Our postcode for route and journey planners is SE10 0EW.
If you need a junction, use Millennium Way or Edmund Halley Way.
Ravensbourne is opposite the O2 right next to North Greenwich Underground and bus station.
We are a two-minute walk from the North Greenwich Pier stop on the Thames Clipper route.
Please visit the Thames Clipper website for routes, fares and journey times.
Just one stop via the Jubilee line from Canary Wharf or Canning Town.
The closest National Railway station is Charlton station.
It’s just a short bus journey from our campus.
Frequent Southeastern trains connect to Charlton rail station.
Turn left out of the station and catch either a 486, 472, or 161 bus to North Greenwich Underground station, followed by a quick two minute stroll to Ravensbourne.
All buses departing from Charlton rail station terminate at North Greenwich Underground station, so you won't get lost!
If you’re taking the Eurostar to London St Pancras International, transfer to the Northern Underground line (Bank branch) down to London Bridge, where you can then change for the Jubilee line to North Greenwich Underground station.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/press-and-media:
The communications team works to promote Ravensbourne in the press and handles all media enquiries for the institution.
To be put in touch with an expert, discuss press opportunities, or learn more about the university’s areas of expertise, please contact us by emailing [email protected] .
Our office hours are Monday - Friday, 9.00am - 5.00pm.
We're an innovative, industry-focused university located at the heart of London’s newest creative community on the Greenwich Peninsula.
We're champions of creativity and collaboration, dedicated to giving our learners the specialist skills and opportunities they need for outstanding careers in digital media and design.
We have a community of over 4,000 students and offer practice-based digital media and design courses from foundation to undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Driven by industry standards and supported by the latest high-performance technology, we produce highly employable and enterprising graduates.
We have a strong track record in graduate employability and business creation.
Learn about Ravensbourne through our short videos ranging from student showreels and interviews to event recaps.
These are all accessible though our YouTube and Vimeo channels.
We have a wide range of high resolution images, as well as the official logo, that we are happy to share, just get in touch.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/our-building/venue-accessibility:
Ravensbourne is committed to achieving equality, diversity, and inclusion for disabled and/or neurodivergent students and visitors.
We understand disabilities can be visible as much as invisible.
Please find below more information about our main building’s accessibility.
View our full Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy .
Ravensbourne University London's main building
Lifts are marked inside the Ravensbourne University London building.
There are four main lifts, two to service even-numbered floors, and two to service uneven-numbered floors.
Once you pass through the entrance, the lifts are on both sides of the building.
To reduce your carbon footprint and to ensure lifts are available for those who need them, please use the stairs.
The nearest drop-off point to the building is the loading bay.
There is also a suitable place adjacent to the building to transfer out of the car into a wheelchair.
We have a limited number of parking spaces on-site for Blue Badge holders.
If you're visiting Ravensbourne for an event, please book in advance by emailing [email protected] .
Please be aware you will be required to display your blue badge.
Our main building is accessible via a wheelchair-accessible powered door and barriers at its main entrance.
You can find wheelchair-accessible toilets on each floor.
All toilets at Ravensbourne are gender-neutral to encourage gender diversity and inclusion.
If you would like to familiarize yourself with the building before coming in, please have a look at our virtual building tours .
Ravensbourne University London will book British Sign Language interpreters on request for its in-house events with 2 or more weeks' notice.
To arrange an interpreter, please contact us .
Enjoy our building tours at Ravensbourne on Wednesday afternoons , where students are mostly at home, and the building is free from the liveliness of students circulating in the building.
You can also visit our buildings online on our virtual tours .
Our main University building has quiet spaces for students, staff, and visitors.
You can use this space for:
Ravensbourne University is also equipped with its First Aid Room on the Ground Floor which can be used for health requirements as:
Guide and assistance dogs are welcome within our buildings.
We will provide water for them if required.
House of Ravensbourne University London's prototyping lab, print shop and materials' library.
The general entrance of this building is via the external stairs to the first floor.
If you require a lift to get to the first floor, another entrance via the ground floor can be used.
Lifts are marked inside the building.
Once you pass through the entrance, the lift is in the central corridor of the building through the black doors.
There is a drop-off point outside the Prototyping rear door.
Enjoy our building tours at Ravensbourne on Wednesday's afternoons , where students are mostly at home, and the building is free from the liveliness of students circulating in the building.
Ravensbourne’s Student Services also provides assistance, support, advice, and provision for disabled and/or neurodivergent students.
If you would like to discover more about the support Ravensbourne University London offers to its students, please visit the links below or contact [email protected] .
If you require more information about our venue’s accessibility, please email [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/how-apply/admissions-procedures:
Our admissions and transfer policies can be found in our General Academic Regulations.
You can download the full document here .
The principle behind the procedure is that where an applicant declares a disability we will:
All applicants are sent a letter inviting them to make contact with the Student Services team if they have a disability and need any assistance for their interview, or would like to discuss any support requirements should they be offered a place at Ravensbourne.
The Student Services team will speak to admissions tutors if any support for interview is needed.
We will coordinate this provision as appropriate, eg.
by organising communicators for deaf students.
A support interview is offered to disabled applicants and is a separate discussion with one of the Student Services team.
This takes place after the academic interview.
It gives the applicant an opportunity to tell us about any additional requirements they need and to raise any concerns they might have.
Of course, the student does not have to take up the support needs interview if they do not want to.
The Student Services team is available to all admissions tutors for any concerns or questions following an interview with a prospective student.
We will ensure that, where appropriate, we will seek advice and guidance from external agencies – for example The National Autistic Society and Greenwich Sensory Service.
The Student Services team aim to maintain regular telephone/email contact with students who have been offered a place.
This will include liaison with external agencies where required, for example, SFE, or disability support agencies.
We aim to maintain confidentiality at all times, and that we won't enter into any discussion with a third party (including parents) without the consent of the individual student.
Once a student enrols at the university, the Student Services team will gain consent to share information with appropriate members of staff to ensure that effective support can be put into place – for example reasonable adjustments to the delivery of the course/ achievement of learning outcomes.
The Health and Disability Support Coordinator will run through a checklist with you to establish what support you may need and what support you already have in place.
You will be able to see this information after the discussion, and sign to agree its contents.
The information will be used for the following purposes:
No, an offer of a place is made entirely on academic grounds.
At this stage, only the Health and Disability Support Coordinator.
The information will not be shared without your consent.
If you are offered and accept a place on a course at Ravensbourne, the Health and Disability Support Coordinator will agree with you who should know about your disability, and why.
Once you have started your course you will be able to sign a confidentiality agreement preventing the disclosure of the information.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services:
Being a student isn't always easy.
So whether you're finding it hard to keep up academically, struggling with personal problems or you just need some information or advice, we're here to support you
For enquiries or appointments with the Student Services Team, contact us by email on [email protected] or on one of the following numbers:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/accessibility-statement:
This website is run by Ravensbourne University London.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format:
Tel: +44 (0) 20 3040 3500 Email: [email protected]
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 3 days.
If you cannot view the map on our ‘ Location ’ page, call or email us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: [email protected]
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Ravensbourne University London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to non-compliances.
We are currently reviewing the full scope of non-compliances and will aim to have a full list (below) by 31 October 2022.
Issues with PDFs
This website may contain PDF documents that are not able to comply with the requirements of the web accessibility standard.
However, new PDFs will be created to the PDF/UA standard, which is more accessible.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Where PDFs are no longer being updated, we do not intend to recreate them in accessible versions as this would be a disproportionate burden .
By September 2023, we intend to have completed the process of addressing PDFs used on the site to make these compliant.
This statement was last reviewed on 31 October 2022.
This website was last tested and fixed on September 2022.
The test and fix was carried out by Numiko .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/exempt-charity-information:
Ravensbourne University London
10005389 Office for Students
6 Penrose Way London SE10 0EW United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/freedom-information:
Currently reading: 1.
Legal requirement
1.1  Adopting a publication scheme is a requirement of the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
This Act promotes greater openness and accountability across the public sector by requiring all 'public authorities' to make information available proactively, through a publication scheme.
1.2  'Public authorities' are defined in the Act and include universities and colleges of Higher Education.
2.1  A publication scheme is a document that describes the information a public authority publishes, or intends to publish.
In this context, 'publish' means to make information available, routinely.
These descriptions are called 'classes of information'.
The scheme is not a list of the actual publications, because this will change as new material is published or existing material revised.
It is, however, the public authority's commitment to make available the information described.
2.2  A publication scheme must set out the classes, or categories, of information published.
It must also make clear how the information described can be accessed and whether or not charges will be made.
3.1  Ravensbourne has developed the model publication scheme prepared for the Higher Education sector and is committed to publishing the information it describes.
Ravensbourne Publication Scheme
3.2  This model is designed for universities across England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The purpose of the model is to save institutions duplicating effort in producing individual schemes and to assist the public in accessing information from across the sector.
However, to reflect the diversity in size and function of institution, a number of optional classes of information are included.
As a result, models within the sector will vary slightly.
Any optional classes relevant to us have been included in our scheme.
4.1  The University can trace its earliest history back to the foundation of the Bromley School of Art in the 1870s.
The modern history of the University began in 1962, when Beckenham School of Art and Sidcup School of Art amalgamated with Bromley School of Art to form Ravensbourne College of Art and Design and the new institution relocated to a new site in Bromley Common.
In 1975, the bulk of University activities moved to its current site and new purpose-built accommodation in Chislehurst.
4.2  In the 1980s, in response to requests from the then National Advisory Body for Local Authority Higher Education for savings across higher education and a rationalization of fine art provision nationally, the College's fine art department was closed and the College refocused on its core specialist strengths in design and communication media.
The institution was renamed Ravensbourne College of Design and Communication.
1992 brought the School of Broadcasting to the main site.
4.3  During the 1990s, the College began to engage proactively with the opportunities and challenges presented to the creative disciplines by the development of computing and multimedia technology and championing the creative use of digital technologies in design and communications became a key part of the College Mission.
The College's links with the creative industries were deepened and it benefitted for instance from endowments from the UK's independent television companies as their preferred supplier of education and training.
Its distinctive approaches to learning and teaching and creative professional formation was also becoming known nationally [Ref:Securing Innovation and Creativity in Design Education, DFES/HEQE, 1999].
4.4  Over the last decade, Ravensbourne students have achieved success in many national competitions, such as the Royal Society of Arts Design Awards (RSA), British Design in Art Direction Awards (D&AD), New Designers Awards, Graduate Fashion Week Awards and PROMAX.
The College was recognized in 2007 as one of 17 Skillset Media Academies nationally.
4.5  In August 2017, the College was granted the right to award its own degrees by the Privy Council.
In May 2018, the Privy Council granted university title and the College became Ravensbourne University London.
5.1  The classes of information we publish are described in the second part of the scheme.
5.2  Next to each class we have indicated the manner in which the information described will be available.
Information available on the Web site is free of charge.
We may charge a fee for printed material.
Where requests are made for substantial amounts of information a charge will be made to cover the cost of photocopying and postage.
5.3 To request information available through our publication scheme, please contact [email protected] or write to FOI, Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London SE10 0EW, T +44 (0) 20 3040 3500 .
5.4  Please note that a publication scheme relates to 'published' information.
Therefore, material covered has already been prepared in a format ready for distribution.
6.1  From 1 January 2005 you will have the right, under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, to request any information held by a public authority which it has not already made available through its publication scheme.
6.2  Requests will have to be made in writing and, in general, public authorities will have 20 working days to respond.
They may charge a fee, which will have to be calculated according to Fees Regulations.
They will not be required to release information to which an exemption in the Act legitimately applies.
However, public authorities may be required to explain to the applicant why they are not releasing information and they may also have to justify this to the Information Commissioner.
7.1 It is important that this publication scheme meets your needs.
If you find the scheme difficult to understand, please let us know.
We also welcome suggestions as to how our scheme might be improved.
Any questions, comments or complaints about this scheme should be sent in writing to [email protected] or write to FOI, Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London SE10 0EW, T +44 (0) 20 3040 3500 .
7.2  If we are unable to resolve any complaint, you can complain to the Information Commissioner, the independent body who oversees the Freedom of Information Act:
Information Commissioner, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF
More information about the Freedom of Information Act is available on the Information Commissioner's website .
Information Commissioner, Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow.
Cheshire, SK9 5AF T: + 44 (0) 0303 123 1113 E: [email protected]
If you would like to contact Ravensbourne directly with any queries or concerns regarding Freedom of Information, please contact:
FOI Ravensbourne 6 Penrose Way London SE10 0EW
E: [email protected] Call: +44 (0) 20 3040 3500

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/how-are-we-funded:
Universities are subject to the Office for Students requirement to be transparent about value for money for its students.
The following information sets out how the University’s finances work – where our income comes from and what we spend our money on.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/transparency-report:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
The data used to create the Transparency 2023 information relates to the 2021-22 academic year and is produced by the OfS using our data from the HESA Student Record, HESA Student Alternative Record or Individual Learner Record (ILR).
It includes amendments submitted and approved for use in institutional performance measures before 05 May 2023.
Transparency 2023 information: Attainment of 2021-22 qualifiers
Provider: Ravensbourne University London
UKPRN: 10005389
For details of non-numeric values in the following tables, please see 'Rounding and suppression' below.
Ethnic minorities includes students with Asian, Black, Mixed or Other ethnicities, a further breakdown of which is shown in Table 1b.
Scroll across to see the full table.
The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
o          50 or less: percentages are rounded to 5%
o          1000 or less: percentages are rounded to 1%
o          More than 1000: percentages are rounded to 0.1%

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/privacy-and-cookies:
Ravensbourne University London is committed to respecting and preserving your privacy.
Please read the following policy to understand how we use and protect your information, including information obtained from those visiting and using our websites.
We collect information about you:
We use your information:
We may contact you by post, telephone or fax as well as by e-mail and SMS.
If you change your mind about being contacted in the future by any of these means then please let us know.
Where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password which enables you to access certain areas of, or services on, our websites, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential.
We ask you not to share this password with anyone.
Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure.
Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to the website; any transmission is at your own risk.
Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access.
Some areas of the website use third-party software facilities such as PayPal.
Please note that data storage on PayPal systems, and the communication between PayPal and the worldwide banking networks, is regularly audited by the banking authorities to ensure a secure transaction environment.
They also ensure that they stay up-to-date with the latest versions of any third-party code used, and continually review their own proprietary code.
Authorised personnel within Ravensbourne will be able to access the information you provide to us.
We may also disclose your information to other third parties who act for us for the purposes set out in the policy or for purposes approved by you.
Please note that countries outside the European Union do not always have the same strong data protection laws.
However, we will always take steps to ensure that your information is used by third parties in accordance with the terms of this Privacy Policy.
Unless required or permitted do so by law, we will not otherwise share, sell or distribute any of the information you provide to us without your consent.
We may collect information about the device you are using to access our online services, the operating system and browser type used and your IP address.
This information is statistical data about users' browsing actions and patterns and does not identify any individual.
It is used to inform improvements to the website, for system administration, and to report aggregate information to third parties.
For the same reasons, we may obtain information about your general internet usage relating to our websites by using a cookie file which is stored on the hard drive of your computer.
We use this information to track your movements through our websites, to find out how the websites are being used and to assess its usefulness.
Personal information about you is not collected during the tracking process.
We use a third party product "Google Analytics", a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc.
("Google"), to help us analyse how our websites are used.
In doing so information about your use of our websites, including your IP address, may be transmitted to, and stored by, Google.
This information will be subject to Google's Privacy Policy.
See Google's privacy policy for more information.
We use cookies on our websites to allow us to automate basic interactions between your browser and our websites.
It makes logging-in easier, faster and more secure on websites where you need to log in to use our online services.
Cookies are also used to recognise your device when you return to the website.
We may also use cookies that will hold your data on our websites until such time as you log out.
You may refuse to accept cookies by activating the setting on your browser which allows you to refuse the setting of cookies in general.
However, if you select this setting you may be unable to access certain areas or services on our websites.
Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will issue cookies when you navigate to our websites.
By using this website you consent to the collection, processing, retention, and use of your personal information in accordance with this policy.
Microsoft Clarity
This website uses Microsoft Clarity, an analytics tool from Microsoft Corporation (One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052-6399, USA; “Microsoft”).
For this purpose, Microsoft Clarity uses cookies enabling an analysis of your use of our website (e.g.
entry to the page, navigation, scrolling and clicking behaviour).
These are only set after their express consent.
The information generated by the cookies will be transmitted to a Microsoft Clarity server (possibly in the USA) and stored in order to enable session recording and to generate so-called heat maps.
We use Microsoft Clarity in the default settings, so that the data transmitted to Microsoft does not contain any sensitive input data such as names or addresses, to rule out any direct personal reference.
Microsoft will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, to compile reports on website activities, and provide the website’s operator with further services related to website and Internet usage, including profiling for advertising purposes.
Microsoft may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Microsoft’s behalf.
You can find further information about Microsoft Clarity here
We employ security measures to protect your information from access by unauthorised persons and against unlawful processing, accidental loss, destruction or damage.
Please help us keep our records updated by informing us of any changes to your email address and other contact details.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information held by us in our records.
Please see Freedom of Information act .
Our websites may, from time to time, contain links to websites of third parties.
Please note that if you follow a link to any of these websites, you are effectively transferring over to said third party websites.
Please note that at the point of transfer the responsibility for all things related to your data transfers to the third party website.
Third party websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.
Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.
This Fair Processing Notice (FPN) is provided to you to inform you how your personal data will be processed and the purposes for which the data has been collected.
This notice also provides information on other areas where we may process your personal data and explains how you can opt out of some aspects of the processing, where applicable.
Fair Processing Notice for students
This summary is intended to convey essential information only.
For more detailed information about how Ravensbourne collects, stores and processes your personal data can be found in the full notice attached to this summary.
Fair Processing Notice for alumni
Under data protection legislation, all staff, students and other users about whom we process personal data have rights associated with its use.
Our subject access request procedure .
We may amend this policy from time to time.
If we make any substantial changes we will notify you by posting a prominent notice on the website in question.
If you have any queries or comments concerning the use of your personal information please contact us .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/statutory-legal-and-policies/terms-and-conditions:
This website www.ravensbourne.ac.uk is provided by Ravensbourne.
Use of the website is governed by these terms and conditions (together with the documents referred to on it - "Terms and Conditions").
By using the website you indicate that you accept the Terms and Conditions and that you agree to abide by them.
If you are not willing to accept these Terms and Conditions you may not use the website.
Access to the website is permitted on a temporary basis, and we reserve the right to withdraw or amend the service we provide on the website without notice.
From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts of the website, or the entire website, to users who have registered with us.
If you choose, or you are provided with, a user identification code, password or any other piece of information as part of our security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential, and you must not disclose it to any third party.
We have the right to disable any user identification code or password, whether chosen by you or allocated by us, at any time, if in our opinion you have failed to comply with any of the provisions of these terms of use.
The website and its contents are for general information only and are provided "as is".
We make no warranties, representations or undertakings about:
We make no guarantees that the website is free from so called computer viruses.
It is strongly recommended that you check for such viruses before downloading it or its contents.
Links to third party websites are for your convenience only.
Such websites are operated and controlled by third parties and their inclusion does not imply any endorsement or approval by Ravensbourne of the materials on such websites.
Ravensbourne accepts no liability for any claims, penalties, loss or expenses arising from: any reliance placed on the content of the website; the use or inability to use the website; the downloading of any materials from the website; or any unauthorised access to or alteration of the website.
The content of the website (including, but not limited to all text and artwork) is protected by copyright.
The copyright is owned by Ravensbourne or is otherwise licensed from a third party for use by Ravensbourne.
You may view or download any part of the website for private purposes, but you are not permitted, without our permission, to:
All other rights which are not specifically granted are reserved.
Ravensbourne is committed to respecting and preserving your privacy.
Please read the following privacy policy to understand how we use and protect the information obtained from those visiting and using the Ravensbourne's website www.ravensbourne.ac.uk.
By using the website you consent to the collection/retention and use of your personal information in accordance with this policy.
Where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password which enables you to access certain parts of the website, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential.
We ask you not to share a password with anyone.
Please note that, data storage on PayPal systems, and the communication between PayPal and the worldwide banking networks, is regularly audited by the banking authorities to ensure a secure transaction environment.
We may collect information about your computer, including your IP address, operating system and browser type.
For the same reasons, we may obtain information about your general internet usage by using a cookie file which is stored on the hard drive of your computer.
We use this information to track your movements through the website, to find out how the website is being used and to assess its usefulness.
("Google"), to help us analyse how our website is used.
In doing so information about your use of our website, including your IP address, may be transmitted to, and stored by, Google.
See Google's Privacy Policy
We may use cookies if you have registered with us on-line.
These cookies allow us to make the logging-in process easier and more secure.
They will also be used to recognise you when you return to the website.
We may also use cookies that will hold your data on our website until such time as you logout.
You may refuse to accept cookies by activating the setting on your browser which allows you to refuse the setting of cookies.
However, if you select this setting you may be unable to access certain parts of the website.
Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will issue cookies when you log on to our website.
If we make any substantial changes we will notify you by posting a prominent notice on the website.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information held by us in our records in return for which we charge a small fee.
Please see Freedom of Information .
The website may, from time to time, contain links to and from the websites of third parties.
If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.
If you wish to publish through the Site, please be aware that other terms and conditions in addition to the Terms and Conditions may apply.
Other than personally identifiable information, which is covered under our Privacy Policy, any material you transmit or post to the website shall be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary, subject to any other terms and conditions relating to publishing through the website which are agreed with Ravensbourne.
We shall have no obligations with respect to such material and we shall have the right to use, copy, distribute and disclose to third parties any such material for any purpose.
We also have the right to disclose your identity to any third party who is claiming that any material posted or uploaded by you to the website constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or of their right to privacy.
You are prohibited from posting or transmitting to or from the website any material:
You may not misuse the website (including, without limitation, by hacking).
We have the right to remove any material or posting you make on the website if, in our opinion, such material does not comply with the provisions set out above or for any other reason whatsoever.
In addition, we shall fully co-operate with any law enforcement authorities or court order requesting or directing us to disclose the identity or locate anyone posting any material in breach of the provisions set out above.
Ravensbourne reserves the right to amend or replace the Terms and Conditions at any time.
If we make any substantial changes we will post a prominent notice on the website.
The Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of England and any disputes that may arise will be subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts.
For all website enquiries please contact the webmaster .
If you have any queries concerning your personal information or any questions on our use of the information then please contact us .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply:
You'll find everything you need in this section about applying to one of our courses.
From application processes, tuition fees and portfolio advice to disability support and admissions policies, you'll find it here.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
This is the place to find information about fees and funding for undergraduate, postgraduate and further education courses

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/your-interview-portfolio-and-showreel:
Currently reading: The interview process
Many of our courses include an interview as part of the assessment process.
Please refer to the course page for your chosen course to see if an interview is required or not.
If your course does not require an interview, your offer will be based purely on academic entry criteria.
We will contact you directly if we require additional information to decide on your application.
Once you have applied, the timeframe to find out the outcome of your application varies.
It depends on you, your application and how many other applications we have to review.
We will work through all applications and respond to you as quickly as possible.
We receive many thousands of applications per year and are committed to giving equal consideration to all applications that reach us by the UCAS deadline.
We consider your full profile and your potential as an individual – not just your actual or predicted grades.
We aim to respond to those who have submitted their application ahead of the UCAS deadline by the end of March.
Your initial application will be reviewed by one of our Admissions Officers.
If your course requires an interview and portfolio submission then you will be invited to book an interview slot, at a time and date that suits you.
Most of our courses interview online, however, for some, there is an in-person option so you can choose to come and explore our campus too.
The interview format varies according to the course.
Often the interview will be with the course leader for your chosen course.
Most interviews are around 15-20 minutes long and take place one-to-one with the academic.
However, some courses do in-person interviews, which last longer as they may include extra activities such as a building tour, course taster, and more.
You will receive more information about the format of the interview in your invitation, and once you have booked a slot.
It's important to make the most of the interview to obtain further information about your course, including teaching methods and Ravensbourne.
You need to determine whether it's suitable for you, so don't forget to prepare some questions for us too!
Also, the interview is an opportunity for you to tell us important information about yourself and your work, so be prepared to talk about your portfolio and the information you have included on your application form.
Once your interview is done, and as long as we have all the information required to decide on your application, we aim to update your application with your interview outcome within two working days following your interview.
Please note this may be longer during busy periods.
Firstly, it doesn’t have to be perfect.
We encourage you to show your research, development and examples of work in progress, so we can assess both your thought process and craft in the absence of a finished article.
These will provide valuable insight into your abilities and potential to succeed at Ravensbourne.
With all this in mind, please don't hesitate to submit your portfolio even if it's not quite perfect at this stage.
As most of our interviews are conducted online, we require the submission of a digital portfolio.
This may include photos of your projects and not just work created digitally.
We generally recommend providing around 15–20 images of your work, or a showreel if you're applying for a Film course or similar.
The platform you choose may depend on the type of work you want to show.
Some example formats and platforms:
Important note:
Our lecturers have tailored subject specific portfolio and interview information because we know you'll want to show us just how talented you are when you apply to study at Ravensbourne.
Our interview tutors love looking through your work, but they won't have much time, so edit your portfolio and only bring us your best, most relevant pieces.
Your portfolio should be between 15 and 20 pages long and should also include at least one full sketchbook - ideally a separate sketchbook for each project.
Your work should cover the whole design process: from initial research, through concept development to the finished piece.
Only bring what you can carry yourself; you can show us large or three-dimensional pieces using photographs or via Flickr , YouTube or Vimeo.
If you are an EU or international student, we recommend that you upload your portfolio to a website such as Flickr , YouTube or Vimeo and provide us with a link to your work, rather than supplying original work which cannot be returned.
Download our getting your showreel ready for interview guide
Watch this video to find out more about preparing your showreel or portfolio, ahead of applying to Ravensbourne.
The Outreach team offer online advice sessions or 1-1 feedback sessions for students wanting to get portfolio or showreel support.
Join an online session below or book a 1-1 by emailing [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Currently reading: Course search
Explore Ravensbourne's industry-focused undergraduate programmes in design, media and technology.
I chose Ravensbourne because of its amazing industry links and because it's right in the heart of London.
I've worked non-stop on live briefs with huge clients, such as WWE and Barclays.
This has given me the confidence to take on the industry myself and seek placements and internships, which led me to kick-start my career before I even graduated.”
Michael Bailey , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Management, 2019
What's it like to study at Ravensbourne?

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life:
We're a diverse fusion of creative practices based in the very heart of London; creating, making and collaborating all under one roof.
Here's just some of the reasons our students love being part of our Ravensbourne community...
During my time at Ravensbourne I have grown as an individual, I have gained the confidence I needed to believe in myself and my work.
Megan Whittle , Fashion promotion alumna, 2019
Discover your passion and unleash your potential by choosing one of our industry-focused digital media and design courses, from foundation to undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Find your home in the centre of London's creative hub and learn from some of the brightest trailblazers in industry.
Take inspiration from other disciplines and build lifelong connections with like-minded individuals.
Graduate with the resilience and confidence to make your own unique mark in the world.
The creative environment which surrounds you and the chance to share the building with other students from different artistic fields gives you an amazing opportunity to collaborate between courses.
Visit our Students' Union.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect:
We’re proud to be a creative hub of an ever-expanding network of people.
Our Ravensbourne community stretches from this dynamic city to all corners of the globe.
As a close-knit university, we pride ourselves on being completely open and accessible.
We want to make sure you always know where to turn to for the right information.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/open-day-saturday-18-april-2025:
Before the event, a timetable with the day's sessions will be circulated.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/building-tours:
Our guided building tours are a way for you to visit our incredible building and see the fantastic facilities available to you if you choose to study at Ravensbourne.
Exterior of the brand-new Institute for Creativity and Technology.
The entrance to the Ravensbourne campus.
Through these doors is where the magic happens.
External shot of the brand-new Institute for Creativity and Technology, taken by Ope Odueyungbo.
Interior shot of the Institute for Creativity and Technology.
We are looking forward to welcoming visitors to the building for a series of tours.
We will be offering tours on various dates throughout the year.
Tours are led by one of our friendly student ambassadors and will last approximately 1 hour.
During the tour, you’ll be shown the main Ravensbourne university building and The Institute of Creativity and Technology as well as all our fantastic facilities and our support services.
Take a look at our virtual tour online.
Our Upcoming Summer Building Tours Thursday 14 August 2025 Saturday 16 August 2025 Wednesday 20 August 2025 Wednesday 27 August 2025 Wednesday 3 September 2025
Unable to make any of the dates above?
Fill out this form and let us know your availability.
Once you have submitted your request, we will confirm a date and time with you by email.
Please keep in mind we require a minimum of 1 week's notice.
The team are available on Mondays to Fridays (excluding bank holidays), to start tours from 11am to 3pm.
Everyone is welcome, all you need to do is complete the registration form.
You can find this by clicking the link for the suitable dates.
There are no longer any Covid-19 government restrictions in England.
Please click here to find all information regarding our Venue Accessibility .
If you would like help to access our event or need more information, let us know by emailing [email protected] and we'd be happy to help

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/why-working-live-tv-my-ultimate-dream-career:
After grabbing every opportunity that came her way while studying on the BA (Hons) Digital Television Production course at Ravensbourne, Niamh is now working as production coordinator at the BBC.
Here, Niamh discusses her time at Ravensbourne, her current work at the BBC, her ambitions for the future, and what inspires her so much about working in television.
I think my final major project (FMP) was my ultimate favourite.
For this I worked with Teenage Cancer Trust, I basically got the whole university to collaborate with them.
We did a live stream for about 90 minutes and it was very inspired by Children in Need and Red Nose Day.
We had six courses across Ravensbourne working together.
So we had students from BA (Hons) Graphic Design , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production, BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production , obviously BA (Hons) Digital Television Production and even BA (Hons) Animation all working together on the project.
It was crazy the number of students and tutors that were involved with it.
It was such a long project, we started it in September 2020 and completed the live stream in April 2021.
With covid going on too, we never thought we would actually manage to pull it off.
I also really enjoyed working with the Royal Shakespeare Company.
I produced two live broadcasts with them in my first year.
I was also the social media manager for the degree show.
To be honest, everything I could possibly get involved with while I was at Ravensbourne, I just jumped on.
So I’m working as production coordinator for the BBC, which still feels a bit weird to say.
I’ve kind of skipped a couple of levels thanks to the work I was able to do while I was still at Ravensbourne.
Most people start off as runners when they graduate and then progress on from there, but I’ve been fortunate enough to start a couple of steps on from that point.
I’ve just finished working on the show Rip Off Britain Holidays, and that was a seven-week contract.
I was in charge of the films, and a big part of the show called Destination Guide.
So I was planning the locations for that and was also responsible for handling a lot of the legal stuff.
Also, a lot of the logistics, like planning where the crew could get petrol from, that was all part of my job.
I’ve just started working on The One Show, so I’ll be working on that for the rest of this season.
For this I'm also working as a Production Coordinator.
So again, I’ll be organising as much as I can for the whole show.
So while I was at Ravensbourne, I worked on shows like Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway.
One of the biggest things was that I was also a production manager for a YouTube channel called Boom in Property.
Boom in Property is an estate agent, very similar to the likes of Purplebricks and Rightmove.
They launched in March and they wanted to create a YouTube channel similar in style to Architectural Digest, so I was the production manager for that, too.
I was doing the odd runner job too and just anything I could get my hands on really to get that all-important experience before I graduated and was out in the real world.
I would like to work in live entertainment, like Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway.
That would be the ultimate dream.
Or working on shows like This Morning or Loraine, just anything live.
I would also love to work in children’s television.
Before I came to Ravensbourne, I could really imagine myself working as a scriptwriter on children’s television, and obviously, that has now completely changed.
But children’s TV is still where my heart is – I did my dissertation on how television influences children.
Working on a live children’s shows like Blue Peter would be the ultimate job actually, that combination between live and children’s television, that really would be a dream come true.
You don’t have time to retake anything, it’s all so immediate and everyone just has to do whatever they can to get it to all come together.
The rush you get from that really is something.
Then afterwards the high you feel when you've managed to pull it all off is really something.
I don't think I'd get that rush from working on documentaries, for example, where everything is a lot more rehearsed.
Yes, from being a kid I knew I always wanted to work in television.
As a child, we had these big thick cameras and me and my sister would walk around at Christmas filming everyone and making up stories.
I remember when YouTube just launched, me and my friend would make silly YouTube videos together.
Now we’re both working in television, so maybe those videos were great practice for the real thing.
I always loved that television shows had such longevity.
Some shows people watch religiously for ten or more years, whereas people only tend to watch a film just once.
There is so much potential for character development in television.
I went to Havering Sixth Form College, which has a partnership with Ravensbourne.
I had a lot of friends that ended up going to Bournemouth to study.
I had been to Ravensbourne to visit and had spoken at length with Lucy Slater, the Outreach Manager and I just felt like it was already so familiar to me.
She said that because of my sixth form college, I didn’t need to apply through UCAS, so I already knew I had a place before Christmas – long before some of my friends had even sent off their UCAS applications!
Also, Ravensbourne was just so welcoming.
Me and my mum went on a few other open days to other universities and we just ended up comparing everything back to Ravensbourne.
Everything is so modern at Ravensbourne, and you really get the sense that you can touch every button in the gallery and really get stuck in from day one.
Other universities, in contrast, seemed to limit the amount of access that first-year student’s had.
It seemed like each year you were given more access.
This definitely wasn’t the case at Ravensbourne, you literally have free rein from the beginning.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/virtual-tour:
Join us for a virtual wander.
To give you a flavour of what it is like on campus, here you'll find 360° tours of some of our gold-standard facilities, and our study and collaborative student zones

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/molly-smith:
Molly studied on the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course and graduated in 2019.
Her creative talents became apparent after she was offered a full-time position at social media agency, Influence Digital after completing an internship with them during her studies.
She quickly proved herself in the role and became an account manager at the agency after two short years.
During her time at Ravensbourne, Molly built a solid group of friends that she was able to bounce ideas off, turn to for support and gain creative inspiration from.
The real-life exposure to industry she was given on her course, gave her the confidence she needed to take her skills out into the real world and thrive.
We caught up with Molly to tell us more about her Ravensbourne experience and what she has been up to since she graduated.
Just before I graduated, I was invited to return to Influence Digital, a social media agency that I had interned at in the summer between my second and third years at Ravensbourne.
Uncertain of what I wanted to do once I'd graduated, within one month of leaving Ravensbourne, I accepted the offer and started working at the agency full time.
Just over two-and-a-half years later, I am still working here.
Having worked my way up from an intern, I've recently been promoted to an account manager at the agency.
As an account manager, my role is to take the lead on client communications on all the accounts I work on, as well as plan, execute and report on social media campaigns.
My typical day is a mixture of all the above.
It's a great balance of being both strategic and reactive.
For me personally, it combines the ideal balance of being creative, yet data driven.
The industry links Ravensbourne have really impressed me, both on my course and across the university.
Throughout all my education, I have enjoyed both academic and creative subjects, so I ideally wanted a next step that combined the two.
That's why the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course really caught my attention.
I really liked the combination of creativity, writing and strategic thinking.
This, the industry links and the location of the university when considering graduate jobs, meant Ravensbourne really was the perfect option for me.
Ravensbourne was also the first and only open day I attended!
You definitely won't get the industry links that are available at Ravensbourne anywhere else!
I landed the internship at Influence Digital through a university-wide scheme that encouraged students to come together to answer one of several briefs set by different agencies.
My group pitched our proposal, got invited to the agency for an interview, and I got the job.
I truly believe that being able to show what I had to offer through this route was so much more meaningful and effective than applying for the job in the traditional way with my CV.
Personally, I would say the friendships.
The university is so tight-knit and is ideal for making some brilliant friends.
I guarantee you will make friends who you can join forces with (regardless of the course you're on).
Together you can produce some really great collaborative work or just simply admire the skills and passion they have.
I've been inspired by all of my friends from Ravensbourne.
Professionally, I think I would say getting the opportunity to pitch to real brands, organisations and agencies.
There's so much value in getting to present your work to industry players while you are still at university and within a safe environment to learn and make mistakes.
It really inspires you to show off your best work, and you'll develop incredible confidence along the way.
It was at Ravensbourne where I really developed a liking to working in groups compared to working alone.
Since leaving university and starting my professional career, it is these great collaborative skills that have really helped me propel me to where I am today.
Another key thing that Ravensbourne helped with was my confidence when showcasing my work.
Pitching to my course mates and the opportunity to conduct live pitches to brands has really helped to build my belief in my own abilities.
The best word to describe my student life was, happy!
I was so incredibly happy and content as a student.
Ravensbourne always had a buzz about the place and you could normally always find a friend in the building.
All the staff were very approachable and supportive, too.
Also, I had the best time living with friends too.
It was just a really fun three years.
Throughout my first and second years at Ravensbourne, I worked part time as a retail assistant at Next.
In my third year, I would occasionally support my course leader by conducting course interviews for prospective students, as well as talk through sessions and be a course rep for the open days.
I thought this was a great paid opportunity.
My favourite classes would be the last few sessions before you pitch your work - you're past the technical lectures and you're refining your projects ready to present.
I always felt that this was the time where there was the most buzz.
By this point, the class would be complimenting and/or giving a few final points of feedback to each other and you would begin to feel really proud of the work you and your team had produced.
Attend the open day and prepare to be inspired!
Molly studied BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/next-gen-careers-aspirations-and-access:
According to our research, only 51% of young people felt that they have the resources needed to succeed.
Against the backdrop of the Government’s Modern Industrial Strategy, the urgent need for a more sustainable economy and the technological advancements brought about by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the labour market is undergoing a seismic and long-lasting transformation.
The degree of success with which the UK harnesses this monumental change of direction for the workforce hinges on one question: how can today’s young people meet the shifting skills needs of tomorrow?
Commissioned by Ravensbourne University London with support from Lightcast and Censuswide, Next Gen Careers: Aspirations and access is a state-of-the-nation research report which seeks to answer this question.
The report contrasts Lightcast labour market projections related to the areas of greatest prospective growth in the creative, tech and business sectors with the views and insights of 3,000 16 to 21-year-olds.
The world of work is changing at a lightning pace, but our research shows that the door still feels closed for far too many young people.”
The findings uncovered by our research were illuminating.
One concern at the heart of the issue is the perceived lack of helpful or accessible careers guidance, with a significant portion of young people opting for social media, influencers and streaming for their information and advice.
The research also identified a striking gap between the aspirations of the respondents and the realities of the future labour market according to Lightcast.
With over half of all Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) coded jobs unselected by the sample, our findings laid bare a risk of future talent shortages which could potentially exacerbate existing gaps in sectors which are critical to infrastructure, green innovation and public services.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/ba-hons-games-design-foundation-year:
Currently reading: Course information
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Design with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.
We’re excited to see the start of your journey towards a career in games!”
Bradley O'Neill , Interim Course Leader
Take a look below at the important information for our course
To help prepare you for Year 0, please complete the following task and bring it with you to your First Week.
Follow us on our Instagram: @Ravensbourne_year0
Course equipment
This course does not require specialist equipment other than a laptop.
Laptop requirements
Please see our laptop requirements document to ensure you have a device that will be suitable for your studies.
Your course welcome week activities will be taking place on the following dates.
This is a really important time for you to meet fellow students, your course team and become part of the Ravensbourne community.
These sessions will cover key information about your course and everything you need to set you up for your studies.
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am – 4.30pm, room R1-902
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 4.30pm, room R1-903
All activities will take place in our R1 Building: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Your Students' Union team is currently working on putting together a fantastic Welcome Festival, full details of all events will be released in September.
To keep track of all SU events and to buy tickets visit: rave.native.fm
During this week you must attend an enrolment session to complete your in-person enrolment and become an official Ravensbourne University student.
Following this you will attend inductions on living and studying in the UK, have a tour of the campus and meet other students.
Tuesday 9 September - Friday 12 September
In-Person Enrolment: 9.30am - 12.00pm
Please book a day and time to complete your in-person enrolment here.
You must complete your in-person enrolment before attending your international induction and your first week.
You only need to attend on one day.
See our in-person enrolment page for details of what to bring with you.
International Induction: 12.30pm - 4.00pm
Once you have enrolled you will attend this session which covers key information about living and studying in the UK.
Activities will take place at our main campus: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Your teaching starts in the week commencing Monday 22 September .
In semester one you will have three teaching sessions each week as follows:
Monday , 9.00am - 4.00pm, room R1-904 - R1 Building
Tuesday , 9.00am - 4.00pm, room R1-102 - R1 Building
Occasionally your timetable might get updated due to a room or other change.
Please ensure you regularly check your timetable in case there are any changes.
You can find out how to check your timetable here
If you have any questions ahead of joining us, our online drop-in sessions will take place on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1.00pm - 2.00pm UK Time.
Members of our friendly Student Services team will be on hand to answer any questions you may have at the start of your journey with Ravensbourne.
Instagram:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-noman-sultan:
Noman Sultan is a cybersecurity academic and governance expert with a strong interdisciplinary background that bridges higher education, financial technology, and global industry.
His work combines strategic leadership in cybersecurity with digital innovation, AI governance, and ethical design practices.
He holds a PhD in IT Leadership from Middlesex University, a Postdoctoral Research Fellowship from University College London (UCL) focused on board-level governance learning, and a Master’s in Design for Social Innovation from Ravensbourne University.
Teaching and Supervision
Sultan teaches across MSc-level programmes in Cybersecurity, Computer Science, and Emerging Technologies.
He integrates design-led thinking, AI ethics, digital trust, and GRC strategy into project-based learning.
He also serves as an External Examiner for postgraduate programmes in AI and Cybersecurity.
Industry Engagement
Alongside his academic role, Dr.
Sultan brings senior leadership experience from HSBC, Shell, Barclays, and financial technology organisations.
He has led enterprise-level strategies in cybersecurity risk governance, operational resilience, AI regulation, and compliance.
He continues to advise on cyber risk frameworks, digital trust ecosystems, and emerging technology adoption, ensuring cybersecurity is positioned as a strategic enabler within complex business environments.
Research Interests
Sultan’s research focuses on the intersection of technology, innovation, and design.
Key themes include:
Certifications and Affiliations
Member: ISACA, British Computer Society (BCS), Institute of Directors (IoD)
Academic Engagement
Sultan contributes to peer-reviewed journals, supervises postgraduate researchers, and regularly presents at academic and professional conferences.
His research actively informs both pedagogy and industry practice, positioning him as a bridge between academia and applied leadership in cybersecurity.
Find out more about Dr Noman on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-dababrata-chowdhury:
Currently reading: Previous Academic Roles and Experience
Dr Dababrata Chowdhury is Associate Professor in Entrepreneurship and Knowledge Management at Ravensbourne University.
Dababrata joined Ravensbourne in October 2022 to provide strategic and academic leadership in research, knowledge exchange, and postgraduate education, as well as to contribute to the institution’s ongoing development.
He graduated in Computer Science and Engineering (BSc) from Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey, before completing an MBA and PhD at the University of Plymouth.
Before joining Ravensbourne, Dr.
Chowdhury served as an Associate Professor in Entrepreneurship and Marketing at the Suffolk Business School, University of Suffolk (UoS).
A Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, he has worked in higher education for over 20 years.
Chowdhury's expertise includes technology, innovation, creativity, student employability, entrepreneurial development, and knowledge management.
He has extensive knowledge of universities and the ability to build strategic partnerships with companies and communities worldwide.
Chowdhury has a proven track record in establishing new centres, managing large budgets, building and leading new teams, and ensuring efficient processes with strong governance.
Over more than two decades, he has successfully managed numerous projects across academic and strategic domains.
This includes developing undergraduate and postgraduate programmes such as the MSc in Business and Management and the MSc in International Business and Management.
In these programmes, Dr.
Chowdhury introduced international entrepreneurship and digital entrepreneurship modules as core elements.
Drawing on extensive experience in both national and international higher education contexts, his pedagogical approach embraces diverse institutional models.
Through teaching, research, and external collaboration, Dr.
Chowdhury has made significant contributions to advancing pedagogical practice.
Recognised for a strong focus on student experience, Dr.
Chowdhury has integrated technology-assisted learning into curricula and introduced gamification techniques using tools such as SimVenture.
He has extensive experience in PhD and DBA supervision, specialising in entrepreneurship, marketing, and knowledge management.
Chowdhury also has considerable experience in external and internal research examination, both within the UK and internationally.
Currently Dr.
Chowdhury serves as Associate Editor for the Review of Applied Socio-Economic Research Journal, has acted as Guest Editor for a special issue on the Psychology of High Performance Work Systems and is an Editorial Board Member for the International Journal of Technology Intelligence and Planning (IJTIP).
He is also Co-Editor of the International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Management Inquiries.
Recently, Dr.
Chowdhury became President and Co-Chair of the International Entrepreneurship and Social Sciences Congress (EMI).
Chowdhury holds associate and visiting professorships at the University of Kota (India), Istanbul Commerce University (Turkey), University of Dhaka (Bangladesh), Spiru Haret University (Romania), Karachi University (Pakistan), and Yessenov University (Kazakhstan).
In the current academic year, he also holds an associateship with the Cambridge Central Asia Forum, Jesus College, University of Cambridge.
1.) 2021 to 2024: Higher Education Student and Staff mobility.
Yessenov University, Kazakhstan British Council Erasmus and project British, EUR 51,000, Role: Lead.
2.) 2015 to 2018: the STEM Accelerator Pilot.
Programme across Suffolk Region, £460,000, Role: Co-investigator.
3.) 2014 to 2015: Commercialisation of new application for light unmanned aircraft,          Technology Strategy Board (TSB) £26,500, Role: Lead.
4.) 2012 to 2014: Business Interaction with Social interaction for Female Entrepreneurship University of Plymouth, Vice-Chancellors Community Research Awards £18,900, Role: Lead.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-business-data-analytics:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Business & Data Analytics at Ravensbourne University London.
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant student community.
Ata Ur-Rehman , Course Leader
Take a look at the page below for important information for your course.
Please complete the short activity below which is aimed at sparking your curiosity about data and analytics, while helping your to reflect on your own skills and expectations.
Task 1: Personal Data Exploration and Reflection
Choose a Dataset Select a publicly available dataset from reputable sources such as Kaggle, UK Government Data, World Bank, or WHO.
The dataset should be relevant to your interests, previous work experience, or a sector you aspire to work in (e.g., healthcare, finance, marketing, sustainability).
Initial Exploration
Task 2: Programming and tools Setup
Install Anaconda and Configure Jupyter Notebook Download and install the latest version of Anaconda for your operating system, ensuring that Python 3.x is selected.
Explore the Anaconda Navigator interface, create a new virtual environment, and install commonly used data analytics libraries such as Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib.
Open Jupyter Notebook from Anaconda Navigator, create a test notebook, and practice running simple Python commands to confirm your setup works.
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, room R1-M01
Your teaching starts in the week commencing Monday 22 September.
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions each week taking place between 9.30am - 5.00pm.
In addition to this you may be required to attend an English for Academic Purposes module during your first semester.
Due to the size and set up of your course it is not possible to share your timetable information prior to your enrolment.
Once you have completed enrolment you can find out how to check your timetable here .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-information-technology-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MA Luxury Brand Management at Ravensbourne University London.
Fabio Ciquera , Course Leader
The pre-arrival reading and tasks are designed to help you transition smoothly into the MSc Information Technology Management course by introducing you to key industry concepts, developing essential skills, and encouraging early engagement with the field.
Academic Preparation
Technical Skills & Tools
Professional Development
Community & Networking
Reflection Task
You must have a laptop to be able to complete your course.
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, R1-906
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions per week as follows:
Wednesday , 10.00am - 13.00pm, room R1-902 - R1 Building
Wednesday , 14.00pm - 17.00pm, room R3-226 - R3 Building
Thursday , 10.00am - 13.00pm, room R3-235 - R3 Building

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-software-engineering:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Software Engineering at Ravensbourne University London.
Cornelius Ncube , Course Leader
To follow
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, room R1-107
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions each week as follows:
Monday, 9.30am - 12.30pm, Room TBC
Monday, 1.30pm - 4.30pm, Room TBC
Tuesday , 9.30am - 12.30pm, Room TBC

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-accounting-and-finance:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Accounting and Finance at Ravensbourne University London.
Over the coming months, you’ll gain insight, build context, and explore how accounting and finance operate across borders and industries.
Dr Winifred Soribe , Course Leader
To help you prepare for your studies, find inspiration and get up to date with the latest industry news please read the following:
Accounting and Finance Fundamentals
Study Skills Recommended Readings
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, room R1-605
In your first semester you will have two teaching sessions each week taking place between 9.00am - 6.00pm, Monday - Friday and one evening teaching session from 6.00pm - 9.00pm.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/illustration-student-designs-limited-edition-labels:
Kopparberg cider bottles will get a limited-edition makeover this summer, using designs created by competition winner Paulina Adelia Grönlund, a second-year BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication student at Ravensbourne.
Paulina’s winning designs will be featured on Kopparberg’s three most popular flavoured ciders variants, ‘Strawberry and Lime’, ‘Mixed Fruit’, and ‘Pear’.
Her design will be printed on 4.5 million bottles.
These will hit supermarket shelves as well as pubs, bars, and restaurants UK-wide over the summer.
This year’s theme was ‘free to be yourself’, and judges on Kopparberg’s creative team were immediately impressed with Paulina’s spooky designs.
This is an incredible springboard to Paulina’s career in design.
In addition to having her designs used by the famous brand, Paulina also wins a six-week internship at the award-winning design agency ‘ Neverland ’ in London, and will have her final year of tuition funded by Kopparberg.
Collaborations with industry are integral to the Ravensbourne student experience, and this marks the second year of our exclusive competition with Kopparberg, following Ben McKay’s win last year.
Students from across our courses submitted designs, including BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design , BA (Hons) Graphic Design , and BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication .
Paulina was presented with her designs printed on the bottles at a party held at Ravensbourne on Wednesday 18 May to celebrate the competition.
Reacting to her win on the night, Paulina said: “I felt stunned, shocked – and it was a huge release.
I just want to thank everyone who helped me along the way, and all the support that I’ve gotten.
"
When I read the brief, ‘free to be yourself’, I thought, this is in my ballpark, this is perfect!
So, I just started drawing and sketching ideas down, and things happened naturally.
I did what I liked to do because I felt like the brief really suited me as an artist and a designer.”
Paulina Grönlund , Illustration for Communication student
She described how she is looking forward to working at Neverland in the coming weeks.
“I’m looking forward to being in the busy midst of things, being surrounded by the deadlines, the stress, the happy tears – just the life that happens at a design studio!
"I want to be part of that and see what it’s like.
I’m always open for new experiences – that’s kind of what ‘free to be yourself’ is about, isn’t it?”
She also learned a lot about the process of refining a design throughout the competition.
Students had the opportunity to submit their initial ideas and designs to Kopparberg, who gave feedback and suggestions, mimicking the real-world design process between artists and clients.
“I started by designing the characters, they were skeletons in the beginning,” she said.
“I do feel like I changed the labels a lot.
The ‘Mixed Fruit’ design had a hippie van on it in the beginning, and then obviously ‘don’t drink and drive’ – you can’t have a car on the label!
But I didn’t think about that.
“The feeling or emotion happened naturally, but then the development phase was a process.
I had to rethink things and try different options.
And that’s also why I think it ended up as good as it did, because I had to change things so much, which I’m happy about.
I’m happy I had to change it and really push myself.
“I feel like I’ve gotten a little insight into how the design process works in the professional world.
But it makes me realise I don’t know enough yet!
And that I have to get into it to know more.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-design-nike-jordan-obama-foundation-collab:
Students from Ravensbourne University London and My Brother's Keeper, part of the Obama Foundation, have collaborated to create a multi-platform creative campaign for the iconic Nike Jordan basketball brand.
The campaign was launched on Saturday 29 October at the Nike Future Forward Festival, a weekend-long celebration of black culture and sport that took place in London.
The students’ concepts and designs were displayed on a full-size basketball court at the event, with two basketball teams also wearing custom jerseys emblazoned with logos designed by the students.
The ground-breaking project was the result of a creative and cultural exchange between London and Chicago.
Watch to learn a bit more about our students’ dynamic cultural exchange journey.
A special thank you to @comcast for their work to tell this inspiring story.
The programme was run by CreativeLab , Ravensbourne’s in-house creative agency that was established to provide real-world opportunities for our students to work on exciting projects and briefs with major brands.
It was made possible thanks to a partnership with two other collaborators.
The Obama Foundation is a US organisation, founded by Barack and Michelle Obama, that provides opportunities, facilitates networking, and grants scholarships to inspire, empower, and connect young people.
The third partner is Vault49 , a creative agency based in New York City and London that has its roots in street art culture.
The project was designed to provide students from marginalised and underrepresented backgrounds in London and Chicago – or those who are the first in their families to attend university – a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to collaborate and broaden their life experiences and creative networks.
In total, nine students from Ravensbourne and four students from Chicago were brought together for the project.
The US participants were nominated by the My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) Alliance , a branch of the Obama Foundation that supports young men of colour in Chicago.
They were briefed by Nike’s Jordan brand in Europe to create a campaign that captures both London and Chicago’s cultures through the lens of basketball.
As part of the project, the students came together on both sides of the pond, first in London and then in Chicago, to immerse themselves in both cities and research how basketball has influenced them through fashion, music, and street art.
The trip, which took place over the summer, saw them meet players from the Detroit Pistons basketball team; Don C , the Chicago Bulls creative director; Tinker Hatfield, the influential Jordans sneaker designer; and John Glasgow, co-founder of Vault49.
The students also met face-to-face with Colin Kaepernick, the inspirational American football player who originated the ‘taking a knee’ movement against racism.
During the project, the students worked together to develop a creative strategy and key messages that they then translated into visual assets and a campaign.
The students combined their talents to create a fully rounded overall package, including logos, custom basketball jerseys, and a short film.
The film is also narrated with a powerful poem written by the students.
Lawrence Lartey, Ravensbourne’s Director of Innovation, Industry, and Enterprise, was the founder and leader of the project.
He said: “My relationship with the Obama Foundation spans six years.
"I’ve always sought to provide students with opportunities to travel and experience different cultures, the cultural exchange program alongside Ravensbourne, the Obama Foundation and Vault49 continues to do this.
“The fact that students can work on a creative brief and then showcase their work with the support of Nike is an unparalleled opportunity to support every young person that takes part in the programme.”
Joseph Ariyibi was one of the Ravensbourne students involved.
He said: “It was such a life-changing experience.
The networking opportunities were truly incredible.
To be able to see how other people work and to learn about different cultures and where people are from was really special.”
Another Ravensbourne student, Safiyyah Henry, said: “It was such an incredible experience!
I met so many amazing people throughout the project and had a wonderful time connecting with them both in London and Chicago.
Getting the chance to travel abroad and learn more about Chicago was so fun and inspiring for me.”
You can learn more about Joseph and Safiyyah's experiences during the collaboration in our blog post .
Chris Crater, Senior Associate at MBK Alliance, said: “Providing opportunities that allow our young men to explore a world beyond the confines of their neighbourhoods or city can have a profound impact on their vision for their own future.”
Come along to CreativeLab’s open studio programme to learn more about their many exciting industry-facing projects.
Email to find out more.
Ravensbourne
MBK Alliance

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-advertising-and-brand-design:
Currently reading: Course overview
Ideal for...
bold thinking graphic designers and visual communicators, who aspire to tell brand stories that change perception and influence behaviour.
This award-winning course connects strategic thinking and design, investigating emerging practices at the intersection of advertising and branding.
Driven by insights, our students develop impactful brand communication, social media content, and advertising campaigns.
(BA Hons) Advertising and Brand Design will create opportunities to explore graphic design, strategy, branding, copywriting and art direction.
Work with industry partners, brands, and emerging technologies and take your place within one of the most exciting sectors of the UK creative economy.
Take a look at the work from our graduating BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design class of 2025.
Take a look at the work from our graduating BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design class of 2024.
Take a look at what BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students got up to in their first year at Ravensbourne.
In the last seven years, our students have won 21 Pencils in the prestigious D&AD New Blood Awards, including two much-coveted White Pencils.
They have won 19 Creative Conscience Awards and have been shortlisted for professional awards including D&AD and The Drum Creative Futures.
D&AD New Blood - Wood Pencil
Go the Distance
Students: Charisse Saculingan, Eugene Corpuz, Karin Huitfeldt
Find out more: https://www.dandad.org/awards/new-blood/2025/hsbc/4568/go-thedistance/
Up to Our Necks: White Pencil and Yellow Pencil
Student: Mae Farley
Find out more: https://www.dandad.org/awards/new-blood/2025/monotype/4712/upto-our-necks/
Voice from Afghanistan: Wood Pencil
Students: Charlie Jones, Harriet Power
Find out more: https://www.dandad.org/awards/new-blood/2025/monotype/4612/voices-from-afghanistan/
Sky Zero: Gold
Students: Paige Langan, Issac Fisher, Louis Stickland
Hedge Fund: Silver
Student: Riley Knox
Find out more: https://www.creative-conscience.org.uk/winners/the-hedge-fund-that-funds-hedges
Airbnb Community
Students: Harriet Power & Charlie Jones
Nandos: Commit to Flavour
Students: Ravinia Rose-Ekwealor & Leleese Francis-Lewis
Winner: Paige Langan
Shortlisted: Isaac Fisher & Sofia Bergstrom
Winner: Mae Farley
Shortlisted: Harriet Power & Rajim Uddin
Student: Stella-Maris Alozie
Student: Daisy Okonkwo
Students : Luis Ramsey & Dominic Ofoedu
The Case for Her & Hey Jane: It's Simply Healthcare
Emily Brisius, Pablo Durban &Reiss Milton
Giff Gaff: See the Difference
Ben McKay & Charlie Wall-Palmer
Tumble
Students: Nico Sandrew & Nick Heights
Mush
Students: Isabella Pavitt, Maksims Julikovs, Ella Woodgate
Lidl Meals
Student: Nils Bjorkman
Our students learn with industry, engaging with professional practice throughout the course.
In the last 6 years we have worked with global brands like Sky, Innocent, Kopparberg and leading agencies and studios such as Uncommon, TBWA, Bulletproof, JKR, The Electric Theatre Collective, DNCO, Neverland, Dentsu, Stormbrands, Mr Bailey @concept Kicks and Studio Blup.
This advertising and branding degree investigates how visual stories are deployed to bring products and services to life.
You will examine diverse areas of branding and advertising, including: how to develop brand communication, social media content, marketing strategy and interactive experience.
You will construct stories that connect strategically across multiple channels to engage audiences and influence perception.
As well as exploring traditional communication formats, like print-based media.
This degree in advertising and brand design will provide you with a solid grounding, boost your all-round employability and develop a diverse skill-set that is highly transferable.
Downloadable course specification
This year's all about empowering you as an advertiser and brand strategist.
It will focus on the development of core skills and will help you to understand key concepts and ideas related to advertising and branding.
You will examine the historical context of the discipline and explore creative principles through an investigation of industry-standard design processes.
The year will end with the creation of a full strategic advertising campaign.
Modules include:
The second year will be more exploratory.
You will examine and challenge the conventions of the discipline and collaborate with other students in the Department of Design Practice.
You will choose from a selection of units designed to promote cross-disciplinary practice and examine emerging practice within our discipline, such as social media content creation, audience participation and interaction, and experience design.
Supported by Ravensbourne careers team, you'll  have the chance to secure a work-based learning opportunity within industry.
Previous partnerships and relationships for this course have included; Sky, Barclays, JKR, Moving Brands, Concept Kicks, Kin + Carta, the Wilderness Agency, Kairos Media etc.
Your final year is all about developing the skills to truly engage with your audience.
You will personalise your practice and present ideas to the world.
In preparation for graduation, you will also collaborate with an industry partner and prepare a portfolio and the materials required to present work professionally.
At Ravensbourne we accept a wide range of qualifications for entry onto our courses, whilst also considering the context in which they were achieved.
For this course, we would usually require a GCSE Grade 4 or above in English in addition to any of the below;
At Ravensbourne we take a flexible approach to admissions, as we want you to know exactly what you need to achieve in your exams to guarantee a place on the course.
We still think exams are important and look forward to hearing about your successes, but we place just as much importance on the work you will share with us as part of our interview and/or portfolio process.
You should ideally have a background in art, creative media or design.
You are expected to submit a portfolio of work which demonstrates a range of skills and why you would be a good fit for the course.
We may also consider a combination of portfolio and academic qualifications and take into consideration progress made during studies and/or relevant work experience.
Simply select your chosen start date using the 'Apply now' dropdown at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate course page on the UCAS website.
The UCAS code for this course is located in the course overview bar at the top of this page.
The UCAS website will guide you through the simple application process.
You can also apply through your school or college using the UCAS system.
Learn more: how to apply for an undergraduate degree course
The entry requirements for this course can be found in the relevant section above.
International students can apply directly via our Online Applicant Portal.
Please see bespoke advice for international students in the dedicated accordion item below.
Admission onto this course is also subject to successful completion of an interview and portfolio (or showreel).
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design degree course, we would like to see examples of your advertising, design, brand and/or marketing projects that you have produced during previous academic, professional or personal pursuits.
For this course you will need to provide a portfolio of material comprising of work created during your previous creative education, alongside any personal or professional projects.
This might include:
It is also important that you include research and development material such as moodboards, experiments, tests, thumbnails and brainstorms.
We do not expect a perfect professional finish but would rather see that you are prepared to take risks and explore outside your comfort zone.
This page offers great tips for completing your portfolio/showreel and preparing for your interview .
You can’t learn in a vacuum.
At Ravensbourne University London, industry connection is ingrained into everything we do.
We will equip you for success in the creative and digital industries, ensuring you are truly industry ready upon graduation.
Our tutors are respected academics and practitioners with substantial experience and industry links.
You will be part of a diverse community of creatives, working collaboratively to explore new professional practices.
Ravensbourne have strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
When you graduate from our advertising degree, you could work in the following job roles within the creative industries:
Find out more about our tuition fees and whether you qualify for financial support during your studies.
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England,  language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international section.
Quick links:
If you have any questions, we'd love to hear from you.
Get in touch with a member of our admissions team:
T: +44 (0) 20 3040 3998
E: [email protected]
If you have specific queries about being an international student, contact [email protected]
For general information, call +44 (0) 20 3040 3500
You can also chat to our students
Find specialist information hubs for:
The Ravensbourne materials library is curated by Material ConneXion , a business that introduces brands to the latest material innovations.
The materials scientists at Material ConneXion select innovative materials relevant to the courses at Ravensbourne and that reflect current trends in design and manufacturing.
Samples of these materials are then added to the library so students and staff can browse the physical collection for inspiration, material ideas and applications.
The library hosts 1,500 material samples and an interactive table for further research and access to the Material ConneXion database.
External visitor information
If you wish to come and see the materials library and have a short tour, please contact us to organise.
The materials library can be used by external students registered with the SCONUL access scheme .
The Ravensbourne University library has a large collection of print, online and multimedia resources available for staff and students to use.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/advertising-students-showcase-work-promoting-unsigned-recording-artists:
Third year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students showcased a series of ‘animations, films and identity systems’ promoting unsigned recording artists as part of ‘Unsigned Stories’, held within Apple’s London office.
During the project, students were tasked with creating a visual narrative to represent an unsigned artist of their choice.
They began by conducting exchanges with their artist, researching the stories they wanted to tell across social media, online and on traditional media platforms.
The students discovered a number of moving, personal tales, from singer Marwan Abousaid fleeing Lebanon in the 1990s, to how dance music DJ LaChie rebuilt his life after a series of kidney transplants.
Students used a range of approaches to present their projects; one group developed a series of vibrant stop motion animations for drum and bass artist DJ Psyc-o, while another created an augmented reality installation for the Czechoslovakian singer Samuel Tomeček.
Students also enjoyed a number of workshops including an exclusive ‘Today at Apple’ session — these were designed to educate and inspire using iPad Pro with Apple Pencil and MacBook Pro.
The course cohort attended the store in Covent Garden to master tools like Procreate and iMovie.
Further to this, global brand agency, Moving Brands, chaired workshops with leading creatives working in the music industry, including artist Sunil Pawar, Jonathan Wilkins aka Dines, founder of Studio BLUP and Steve Stacey, who has worked on campaigns for everyone from Olly Murs to Calvin Harris.
Commenting, BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student Kristine Kokina said, “The amount of support that we got from Moving Brands and Apple was great and the opportunity really motivated us to do our best, making sure we represented our artist well.
We chose a DJ called Dan and Out, creating a vinyl recording full of his stories.
Side A focuses on Dan’s first music memories and the beginning of his DJ journey.
On side B Dan talks about the importance of the audience and we capture the audience response to his performance.
We also produced two videos, one for each side of the vinyl.”
Derek Yates, Course Leader, BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design added, "We pride ourselves on creating a learning environment that allows our students to engage directly with the people who might employ them.
The work on display within the exhibition at Apple represents the tip of an iceberg of valuable learning experiences, a small taste of what the students have got from a project that connects with industry.
From researching networks, initiating conversations, building trust, sustaining relationships and negotiating a brief with their musicians they built expertise that will provide a vital foundation for their future creative work.
It’s been a truly transformative experience."
Students at 'Unsigned Stories' exhibit
Displays at Unsigned Stories event
Discussions at Unsigned Stories event
Unsigned Stories event
Unsigned Stories exhibit
Displays at the Unsigned Stories event

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/derek-yates:
Derek Yates is the head of the Creative Lab at Ravensbourne University, London.
The Creative Lab is a unique creative agency, situated alongside academic delivery that brings students, brands and industry practitioners together to collaborate and learn together.
Derek’s current role represents a fruition of 25 years of working at some of the top creative universities in the UK.
During this time he has evolved an approach to learning and teaching that is informed by a desire to connect creative education to the world it inhabits and build resilience beyond graduation.
While working at the University of the Arts London he instigated and chaired Alt/Shift , a research platform designed to facilitate ‘meaningful dialogue and constructive collaboration' between the creative professions and design education.
He has developed collaborations with global brands such as Apple, Kopparberg, Sky, The O2, Barclays and Deloitte, and respected creative studios such as Mother, The Mill, JKR, Studio Blup, Moving Brands and ustwo.
He has been a keynote speaker at universities in the UK, Europe and China and has presented at two annual conferences of the Graphic Design Educators Network.
Through his connections within the creative industries, he has developed a portfolio of partnered online and blended learning experiences funded by the British Interactive Media Association (BIMA), CreativeUK and the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF).
Digital Marketing: Storytelling in the New Communication Landscape which is hosted on Futurelearn currently has over 4000 worldwide subscribers and he has recently launched KICKSTART!
which is Ravensbourne’s own online learning platform.
He is also a writer and designer.
He has written for the National Society for Education in Art & Design and publications such as Eye, the International Journal of Graphic Design and Threaded Magazine.
He is also the co-author of ‘Communication Design, Insights from the Creative Industries’, an overview of emerging creative practice published by Bloomsbury Fairchild.
In addition work from his early career is featured in the Thames & Hudson book, Design After Dark, the permanent collection of the V&A and has been featured in several music documentaries from the BBC.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/lawrence-lartey:
Lawrence’s work centers around providing an intersection between education, technology and the creative industries.
He has produced documentaries for Channel 4, BBC 4, and BBC Radio 1.
In 2011 he was recognised by The Lloyds Banking Group and Thomson Reuters as one of the most influential black people under 40 in Britain in their annual Power List.
As the Director of Innovation Industry and Enterprise Lawrence’s priority is to prepare students from Ravensbourne to enter the creative industries and excel.
In addition, he aims to establish the Institute for Creativity and Technology as a centre for creative excellence, knowledge exchange applied research, post graduate education and innovation.
Lawrence has a deep commitment to develop the commercial capabilities for Ravensbourne.
So far this has been achieved by collaborating with organisations such as the NHS, Steris, Nike, Warner Music and the Barnes Film Festival.
Further and Higher Education qualifications
Practical Industry Activity
Research/Knowledge Exchange Transfer activity

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/jessica-lewis:
Jess has over 15 years of commercial & business strategy experience from giant corporate beasts, emerging startups & small businesses.
Jess began her career at The Times & Sunday Times, on the digital advertising team, but quickly knew her passion was in brand partnerships & creative strategy.
Jess went on to hold partnership director roles across the entertainment industry including media businesses MTV, Cosmopolitan, Elle & Kyra.
Jess has been at the spearhead of brand partnerships & influencer marketing across emerging digital channels, including pioneering partnerships across Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok & YouTube.
After 11 years working for large businesses, Jess decided to set up a partnerships consultancy in 2019 exclusively supporting entrepreneurs, founders, startups & small businesses building their proposition from ideation to a business that generates revenue.
She has now made the move to Ravensbourne as Head of Commercial Partnerships, so she can dedicate her passion for the industry to make a genuine difference for the university & most importantly its students.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/meet-team/board-governors:
Currently reading: Board of Governors
Ravensbourne is an independent corporation, established as a Higher Education Corporation under the terms of the Education Reform Act 1988 and the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.
The powers of the Higher Education Corporation, as defined in sub-section 124(1) of the Education Act 1988, are:
The Board of Governors is responsible for the determination of the educational character and mission of Ravensbourne and for the oversight of its activities.
It has a key role in ensuring the efficient use of resources and the solvency of the institution.
Members ensure compliance with the statutes governing the Institution and have an important role in monitoring Ravensbourne’s performance against its strategic plan.
The Board approves annual estimates of income and expenditure and sets the framework for the pay and conditions of service of all staff.
Board of Governors Register of Interests
Ravensbourne Articles Of Government
Legal Instrument of Government
Scheme of Delegation November 2024

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/access-and-participation-plan:
Our University is committed to fair access and participation for students, and to addressing educational inequality.
Our Access and Participation Plan sets out our ambition to achieve these commitments including strategic measures, investment and targets to hold ourselves accountable.
Our most recent plan covers 2025-29.
It sets out our aims and objectives alongside what we will do to improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups at different stages of their educational journey.
Read more about Access and Participation Plans and find previous plans on the OfS website .
Our Access and Participation Plan sets out how we will improve equality of opportunity for learners from underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
It details the activities and projects we will deliver to challenge risks to equality of opportunity, and how we will measure and evaluate the impact of this work.
We have conducted a self-assessment and have set objectives and targets to close gaps across the student lifecycle.
In our self-assessment we analysed rates and gaps in access, student success (continuation, completion and degree awarding) and progression in terms of employment and postgraduate study.
The groups we looked at covered all the above, plus any differences male / female rates.
We have committed to regularly reviewing and monitoring these rates, as well as the intersection between gender, ethnicity and socioeconomic background, as part of our annual reporting.
The main contact for enquiries relating to Ravensbourne’s Access and Participation Plan is Lucy Slater, APP Manager: [email protected]
If you are a student and would like to be involved in our Student Advisory Panel for Access and Participation, or to find out about our activities and projects, please visit our intranet site .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/positive-about-disability:
Ravensbourne recognises and is committed to meeting its responsibilities towards its staff and the community at large to ensure that disabled people are afforded equal opportunities to enter employment and progress within the institution.
Ravensbourne is a member of the Disability Confident Scheme which the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP) launched as an initiative replacing the Two Ticks positive action scheme.
As a Disability Confident Employer, Ravensbourne will continue positive action to further our reputation as an equal opportunity employer which promotes a diverse and inclusive culture and community.
This will continue to be done by attracting, recruiting and retaining disabled people and also supporting their progression and development within the organisation.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/reporting:
Ravensbourne wishes to ensure that all staff and students work in a climate free from unfair treatment, harassment or abusive behaviour.
Ravensbourne recognises that discrimination can manifest itself in different ways and that its effect is destructive both to those who experience it and to those who cause it.
We wish to create and maintain a learning environment where every individual is treated with dignity and respect.
If you believe that you have experienced or are experiencing discrimination, harassment or victimisation you should speak in the first instance to your line manager.
If you feel unable to discuss the matter with your line manager then the appropriate point of contact is Human Resources (0203 040 3622) or [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/ravensbourne-students-win-three-creative-conscience-awards:
Three groups of Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students have won Creative Conscience awards for their environmentally and socially focused branding campaigns.
The winning projects were proposed in response to purpose-led briefs, set by agencies and other members of industry.
Creative Conscience is a creative community and global not-for-profit organisation that believes in using creative thinking and innovation to make positive change.
It seeks ideas that will help build 'a more sustainable and regenerative world'.
The three winning BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design projects are:
The level of their awards – gold, silver, or bronze – will be announced at a ceremony on Tuesday 19 September.
Find out more about the projects below!
We are delighted to see our students win Creative Conscience awards.
It has been a fantastic opportunity for students to engage with industry, to create the change they want to see in the world and to be recognised for their thinking.”
Nils created a new, health-focused solution to lunchtime for students with his project ‘Lidl meals’.
You can find out more about this on Nils’s online portfolio .
The project was also further recognised by Design Week , featuring as part of its 2023 graduate season coverage!
He said: “I decided to do this project because meal deals are a fundamental part of a student’s life, yet they are unhealthy.
“Current meal deals are outdated, so I wanted to modernise the concept.
Upon further research, I found that 21% of British teens are considered obese, and the government wish to halve this number by 2030.
“Therefore, I decided to create a concept that allows students to eat cheap, healthy, and accessible food, directly from vending machines located in universities.
“I had a lot of fun with this project.
The graphical language that I created is based on Lidl's existing assets but modernised to receive attention from the audience.
“That this project received a Creative Conscience award is a massive bonus to what already was a fun project.
I'm really looking forward to see what prize it receives as well as seeing the other winners’ projects.”
Maksims, Isabella, and Ella made ‘Mush’, a project which focuses on the challenges young people with Autism spectrum Disorder, OCD, and Anxiety Disorder often face due to sensory food aversions.
Maksims said: “The brief for our project was to create a digital product or service aimed at 18-25-year-olds that would help to tackle nutritional or sustainable food issues.
“Our outcome was ‘Mush’, an app-based safe space for people with sensory food aversions to explore new food senses and share their food experiences with others.
“The app would also serve as a meal catalogue, allowing users to explore the specific sensations of meals, and talk about their experiences with others alike; within an official and inviting community.
“To make our target audience feel welcome, we created a playful and approachable aesthetic.
Our campaign would involve in-restaurant compatibility, where users could browse dishes within our app in higher detail.
“I was pleasantly speechless when I got the email from creative conscience about winning!”
Tumbl
Nico and Nick created ‘Tumbl’, a sustainably sourced vegan fast food chain.
In response to a brief to ‘brand the unbrandable’, they created a tongue-in-cheek and ‘playfully awkward’ branding aimed at the anti-vegan friends and family of vegans.
Nick said: " The project was a delightful experience, and we enjoyed exploring eco-consciousness in a creative and unconventional way.
"I’d also like to extend our gratitude to Stormbrands for presenting us with this challenging brief, and our tutors Paula Williams and Stephen Lloyd for guidance along the way."
You can find out more about the project on Nick's portfolio and Nico’s portfolio .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/student-joins-mentorship-programme-design-sustainable:
Our BA (Hons) Product Design student Emilie-Gabrielle Lemaitre-Downton was selected to take part in a Makers & Mentors Design mentorship to create a design that ‘cultivates connection’ in a post-pandemic office building.
The Makers & Mentors programme was created to challenge young designers to create bespoke sustainable furniture.
It is run by the social enterprise Power Out of Restriction (POoR) Collective and workspace provider The Office Group (TOG).
The six-week mentorship programme gave emerging designers the experience of a live client project.
They were tasked to create furniture for The Black & White Building, a sustainable office space in central London – and the city’s tallest mass-timber commercial structure.
Em was chosen as one of three students on the coveted programme, selected out of second- and third-year design students from the whole of the UK.
Each of the three were paired with a London-based designer to develop furniture and artwork for a permanent installation in the building.
Their design had to have an emphasis on sustainable materials and social connectivity.
I decided to make a series of side tables with the intention of being material conscious.
It is constructed with traditional joinery techniques, featuring the patterns and geometries they create.”
Em Lemaitre-Downton , BA (Hons) Product Design student
Em was mentored by Andu Masebo, a trailblazing ceramics, carpentry, and metalwork specialist.
She was also provided with a £1,000 stipend and materials.
Throughout the programme, she designed a family of coffee tables using interlocking planks of wood.
Although each table in the three-piece set is unique, they pull together to form a cohesive look thanks to their striking design and uniform height.
“I have learnt that it is incredibly valuable to understand the nature of the material you are working with,” she said, in a presentation of her work.
“I decided to make a series of side tables with the intention of being material conscious.
Charlie Green, co-founder of TOG, said: “The Makers & Mentors programme gives us an opportunity to recognise and support the talents of tomorrow and to weave their work into the fabric of one of our most important buildings to date.”
Shawn Adams, founding partner of POoR Collective, added: "Working with TOG, we hope to kickstart the careers of emerging talent."
Em has previously won a silver award at the Starpack Students competition for a packaging solution she created for Smirnoff vodka.
We look forward to seeing what comes from her next!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-travel-egypt-film-cop27:
Ravensbourne students from across our TV courses had the amazing opportunity to work abroad in Egypt to help film the COP27 conference at the end of 2022.
Five Ravensbourne students and one recent graduate worked at the major international event, which was held in Egypt from Sunday 6 to Friday 20 November 2022.
They were employed by the production company Tell Media , getting real-world, paid professional experience, as well as valuable experience working overseas.
COP27 was the 27th United Nations Climate Change Conference.
Representatives from governments around the world attended, where they discussed how the world should adapt to climate change.
UK prime minister Rishi Sunak, US president Joe Biden, and many more world leaders were in attendance.
The students – Niall Hayes, Lia Saunders, Harry Lorrell, Louis Morel, and Tyler Evans, alongside graduate Jayden Okeyemi – filmed streams, stages, and talks at the event.
They are currently studying on our BA (Hons) Digital Television Production and BSc (Hons) Broadcast Engineering courses.
It’s important as an industry that we continue to train students to work on the current technology and production methods used in the industry.”
Tom Ellis , Founder of Tell Media, Ravensbourne alumnus
They took on essential roles such as stream technicians, technical assistants, camera operators, and multiskilled operators.
Their subjects included the UK government’s stand at the event, where they filmed talks by delegates; politicians presenting their climate plans; and many other events.
The opportunity was orchestrated by Tom Ellis, the founder of Tell Media and himself a Ravensbourne alumnus.
He graduated from the BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production course four years ago.
Speaking to the Ravensbourne news team, Tom said: “It’s important as an industry that we continue to train students to work on the current technology and production methods used in the industry.
“The job is very hands on and the better equipped they are to enter industry after graduating, the better for everyone.”
Tell Media has a close, on-going collaboration with Ravensbourne, and has worked with the university at corporate events and London Fashion Week.
They also attend our recruitment open days for students.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/sustainable-style-finding-disregarded-materials-new-lease-life:
Davina Amajor is a BA (Hons) Fashion graduate who despite graduating in the middle of a pandemic, is now following her dream to create sustainable fashion.
While in her final year at Ravensbourne, Davina was awarded a place within SEEDS, Ravensbourne's Self Employment Entrepreneurship Diversity Scheme.
SEEDS is designed to support the natural enterprise skills of Ravensbourne's dyslexic neurodivergent students and those from diverse backgrounds in setting up their own business or freelance career.
Through the programme, she had the opportunity to work with sustainable fashion house, Raeburn and was mentored by the brand's head of design.
We chatted to Davina about how the SEEDS programme helped her follow her dreams and what she has been up to since graduation.
I studied BA (Hons) Fashion and graduated in 2020, during the first lockdown.
It was pretty hectic trying to complete my third year during a global pandemic.
Going from physically sewing and having access to studio spaces every day, to working in my living room with my laptop was a very tough transition!
F or me, a massive benefi t of being involved in SEEDS was that it made me really discipline d in terms of completing university and getting to a place I wanted to be in my career.
I have to say, studying in lockdown was a mental challenge, and it was very hard to stay motivated and to not lose faith.
SEEDS was a really positive influence and gave me the positive reinforcement and support that I crucially needed at that time.
I had a strong sense that I wanted to use the technical skills that I'd learnt on my degree course in a professional environment as soon as I had graduated .
T he SEEDS programme really pushed me to accomplish that.
It motivated me to pursue what I knew I really wanted to be: a designer.
Yes , my mentor was the head of design within the brand, Raeburn.
I also had some assistance from one of the designers .
They both really helped me and gave me lots of constructive feedback.
They taught me how to analyse my portfolio and showed me how to work with tech packs, which is a really crucial element of the design job – I had previously found tech packs quite challenging.
With their guidance, I could apply what I learnt to real-life situations.
During the programme, my mentors invited me for a tour around the Raeburn studios.
During my time at Raeburn I learnt so much about using sustainable fabrics – this was something that deeply inspires me .
It showed me that everything has the potential for a new lease of life.
SEEDS has helped tremendously with pursuing my own career goals.
It really helped me with the admin and the business side of things.
I learnt about everything: from understanding bookkeeping tax, to the importance of networking, to how to engage an audience on social media and how to make myself stand out.
The programme has also helped me reach out to sustainable designers such as Christopher Raeburn as well as Bethany Williams; both designers have helped me develop a project I am currently working on inspired by the reinvention of tarpaulin.
If it wasn't for SEEDS, I would have graduated in lockdown feeling completely lost in terms of which way to turn next.
Thanks to the SEEDS programme I could really turn my attitude around and start reaching for what I desired.
Through all the coaching I had with SEEDS, I was able to apply what I had learnt, and this gave me the confidence to reach out to the designer Bethany Williams.
She was a designer that, while I was at university , I've always wanted to work with because our ethics and our beliefs aligned.
A perfect job opportunity with the company arose – so I went for it, and I got it!
At Bethany Williams, I am product coordinator, so in the role I work closely with the production team.
During the day I am responsible for making sure that the studio and garments are organised and have many fabrics at hand to experiment with.
My job is very varied day-to-day; one day I could be styling for a shoot, the next I might be working with some textile patchwork, the next I could be attending an event – it's all very flexible, which I love.
Besides Bethany Williams, I’ve been able to spend time on developing projects for my own interests and aspirations.
My own work explores the re-invention of design, with an aim to recover the functionality and value of worn, aged items and fabrics to prevent them from being disposed of.
One key ethos of my work is to find function over form – my projects seek to explore unwanted materials in society and bring them to the forefront through manipulation and recreation and through the application of mix-mediums.
Upcycled bucket hat by Davina.
Made with two old pillowcases and using reflective orange strips and utility pocket work.
Example of Davina's sustainable denim work modelled by Aaliyah Anais.
Explore more of Davina's work on her Instagram.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/how-live-and-breathe-sustainable-design-collective-agency:
The Collective Agency is a leading product design company with a key focus on the sustainability and ethics of design.
They recently hosted a design 'hack' at Ravensbourne with BA (Hons) Product Design students and 40 students from Madrid's ESNE (Escuela Universitaria de Diseño, Innovación y Tecnología).
We caught up with Sophie Cappe , the Design and Sustainability Manager at The Collective Agency, to delve into sustainability and explore the fundamental role it plays within the business.
We really enjoyed it, it was a really rewarding day for us, and hopefully for the students too.
Firstly, we introduced ourselves to the students and explained a bit about The Collective Agency , so who we are, our ethos and what we produce.
Then we started looking at the leftover material that we’d brought with us.
It was really interesting to see how the students interacted with the material.
As an example, one group was using a lighter and burning the material – we saw some really creative ideas.
The students asked some great questions too.
The opportunity came about because our marketing director reached out to Ravensbourne to ask if the product design students could make use of our leftover material.
By reaching out to Ravensbourne, it was our aim to help to inspire the next generation of designers and to support their creative education.
For us at The Collective, our commitment to minimising our environmental impact affects everything we do.
That really is at the core of our brand ethos.
It is at the crux of every business decision we make.
We only work with brands and materials that have sustainability at their core, too.
They are our future clients, and they will be the ones specifying the products.
In some industries, like the building and the construction industry, it is now a mandatory requirement to obtain certifications to specify that the materials used are sustainable – or at the very least don’t cause any harm to the environment.
By teaching students about sustainability, it means that it is already ingrained in their minds when it comes to making important decisions about which materials to use in their careers.
I think there is definitely a growing movement.
You can see there are a lot more companies talking about it.
But just because you are part of the conversation around sustainability, doesn’t mean that it's really integrated into your business processes.
For a lot of companies, sustainability is still very surface level – it's not ingrained deep into the decisions of the company.
For that reason, I think we are in the minority because we proactively practice what we preach.
For us, it is a constant work of improvement.
We are committed to continually improving our practices, and that really boils down to every single decision that we make as a business.
I think information and processes because operating sustainably isn’t easy.
Sustainability certainly isn’t new, but at the same time, as a society, we are still in our infancy when it comes to figuring out how best to things.
There is no textbook to tell us how to do it, so it is still very much trial and error.
For that reason, I think lack of information is still a major barrier.
It means that businesses have to take the time and the investment to examine and change their own processes – and that’s not an easy task.
Sometimes businesses can’t afford to take the time to invest in this area too.
Often, sustainability just isn’t one of the main factors when it comes to making a decision and it can be left out of big decisions.
Sometimes the technology is just not there either.
On the positive side, the technology is continually improving though.
I think a quick win is to make sure the product is locally sourced.
I would also say it is important to identify the area of the company that has the most carbon emissions and to try to find solutions to minimise this.
I think it’s important to remember that not everything can be done overnight.
It is about putting one step in front of another.
Be inspired to keep learning and to be curious.
Always look for opportunities to go to trade shows, for example, the Surface Design Show in London – it’s a great opportunity to get familiar with new materials.
I think as designers, we never switch off – we are inspired by anything and everything around us.
The same can be said for sustainability; you have to have that mindset 24/7.
Choosing the right materials is a big responsibility, because every decision makes an impact on the environment, and that’s something that should be considered carefully.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-excel-creative-conscience-awards:
Three entries by Ravensbourne students have been awarded a gold prize at the Creative Conscience Awards 2021 .
The global competition for students and recent graduates celebrates creative projects that focus on a social or environmental impact.
Ravensbourne students were extremely successful at the 2021 awards, with three securing gold prizes, one earning silver and six groups picking up a bronze award.
The Creative Conscience Awards welcome projects by students and those who graduated within the last two years from any creative discipline.
The awards can be entered solo or in teams of up to four.
Applicants from across the world can enter any type of project, as long as they have a strong social or environmental cause.
One set of Ravensbourne’s gold winners is Kemi Adeeko, Maureen Vasquez, Georgia Armstrong and Paul Ifeneziuche, an enterprising group of students who collaborated to create Nuff Said .
Nuff Said is an inspiring platform that brings together and empowers diverse creatives in what has historically been a non-inclusive space.
Nuff Said work to encourage the industry to take real action on inclusivity.
Their wide-ranging portfolio includes events for creatives and students and multimedia work, including working with the Obama Foundation on a film highlighting microaggressions.
Another gold winner is Mica Helger, who created Brand New World .
Modern-day society is fuelled by the advertising industry and obsessed with brands – often to the detriment of the planet.
This project reimagines Earth into what people seem to really care about: a brand.
By presenting Earth as a brand, this inspired project reframes how we think about our planet and celebrates what it has to offer.
Lídia Santos was awarded a gold prize for Through the Clutter , a thought-provoking piece of design fiction designed in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and its effect on panic-stricken shoppers.
It imagines a UK where packaging design is banned and replaced by a universal design system imposed by the government.
With a stylish flair – and a knowing nod to the dystopian nature of its ideas – the project challenges the role of designers and how much they influence consumerism.
A board game exploring gender expression and fashion gentrification called The Flow was awarded a silver prize in the ‘education + learning’ brief.
Designed by Elisa Nalon, Nina Krause, Edoardo Albertini and Enrico Lanza, it teaches acceptance and introduces difficult topics in a natural way.
A number of Ravensbourne students were awarded bronze awards.
In addition, Saffron Leijs was highly commended for Artificial , which encourages young women to show their true and authentic selves on social media.
We’re incredibly proud of all of these students and are excited to see what the future holds for them.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/students-london-and-madrid-collaborate-repurpose-scrap-materials:
Product Design students from Ravensbourne University London and Madrid's ESNE (Escuela Universitaria de Diseño, Innovación y Tecnología) recently joined forces to bring new life to scrap materials at a two-day event in London.
The 'material hack' event was coordinated by Nadine Bennett, the joint course leader of our BA (Hons) Product Design course.
It was a meeting of minds, ideas and culture that challenged the students' creativity and explored sustainability in design.
Around 30 first- and second-year Ravensbourne students were joined by 40 visiting ESNE students to participate in the hack, which took place from Thursday 21 to Friday 22 April 2022.
The students worked to transform waste offcuts donated by The Collective Agency , who contacted Ravensbourne after learning about the Product Design department’s ongoing work reusing and utilising local businesses’ scrap materials to improve student outcomes.
The Collective Agency is a leading product design company with a keen focus on the sustainability and ethics of design, a philosophy which is shared by the university.
Close ties with industry partners are integral to Ravensbourne, and helping students work directly with industry is at the heart of our offering.
Sustainability is also very important to us, and the course encourages and explores the use of recycled and offcut materials throughout the design process.
Hosted in our state-of-the-art Institute for Creativity and Technology building, the two-day event opened with a briefing and presentation from The Collective Agency on the materials that would be available to the students.
The students then collaborated in groups to discuss their plans for using them.
In the second day, the groups 'hacked' the donated materials, exploring what could be created using them.
They then presented their ideas and shared their solutions with the larger group.
The teams also had the opportunity to relax together and explore the V&A, the world's leading museum of art, design, and performance.
Course leader Nadine said: “Our visiting students were so enthusiastic, they just made the days go so well.
I think our students loved having new faces coming in.
"Working with new people i s quite challenging, so it puts them out of their comfort zone.
It’s a bit like work: you’re always going to be working with new people.
It was just so good after Covid-19 to have visitors.
It felt like normal, which was really lovely.
We were all in a celebratory mood.”
Learn more about our BA (Hons) Product Design course

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/rave-about-it-earth-day:
The Rave About It blog is written by second year BA (Hons) Digital Film Production student, Jenny Simpson.
Jenny works one day a week as an intern within our Outreach team.
This blog is a little insight into her views and experiences working with young people interested in the creative industries.*
*Source: The opinions in this blog represent those of the writer and not of Ravensbourne University London
On Friday 22nd of April, it’s Earth Day!
The day is an annual event celebrated around the world to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
First celebrated in 1970, it now includes events in more than 193 countries.
We decided to spotlight Earth Day on our blog here at Ravensbourne - specifically to discuss its significance, to consider sustainability from a creative perspective through our week of activism, as well as to recognise and draw attention to some relevant creatives to follow.
Why is Earth Day important to us as creatives?
For years, environmental information has been firmly within the zeitgeist of our society, but I believe it’s so important to keep it in the forefront of our minds as a creative institute.
To be a creative can often mean to be a problem solver.
Many of our creative practices can be incredibly useful and influential when applying them to universal environmental issues.
As well as having the power to creatively solve problems, we can also use our creative skills to rally and promote issues that are important to us, whether that be through a promotional film, a photography shoot or through a composed song.
What else are we doing at Ravensbourne to inspire activism?
Lots, actually!
Over the easter break, our Outreach team ran an exciting collection of workshops under the theme of activism for aspiring.
With help and support from our staff and student ambassadors, we held:
The idea of both activism and sustainability is hugely important to us at Rave.
Although it’s nice for our creatives to make something that’s beautiful to look at- we want to instill and invest the idea in both current and prospective students that their work can hold more power if there’s a message behind it to drive your creative processes!
Looking for some environmentally conscious creatives to follow?
@NOPLANETNOFUN: an illustration collective approaching the topic of climate change with positivity and a hint of irony.
@MARIAH_ESA_: a fashion designer attempting to change the fashion industry from the inside with her environmentally conscious designs.
@ADAPT____: a cause built around communicating social issues and building communities with climate at the forefront.
@PAJOTTEN: a sustainable UK clothing brand with strong links to Rave.
@THESUSTAINABILITYSHOW: an upcoming event being held in Islington this October for sustainable shopping and dining
@SAMBINSTEAD: a slow fashion photographer
These are just some suggestions- there are so many amazing, influential, environmentally conscious creatives to follow!
I hope we’ve helped you think about sustainability and activism within your own creative practice.
Happy Earth Day!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-collaborates-industry-repurpose-materials:
The Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Product Design course is collaborating with local businesses to reuse and recycle their scrap materials, reducing the environmental impact on both sides and improving our students’ experience.
COP26 may have just finished up, but the United Nations aren’t the only ones making environmentally-focused commitments.
Recently, Ravensbourne has been making its own efforts to help the environment by repurposing the waste of a few of its industry neighbours.
Thanks to these new collaborations, around 70% of the materials our Product Design students require in the design and development process are now sourced from scrap materials such as sheet metal, acrylics and plywood.
The first company is MDM Props , which makes models, props and sets.
The other is the Now Gallery , which runs various exhibitions throughout the year.
Both of these companies end up with a lot of waste materials left over after creating and eventually dismantling these pieces.
All this scrap, once destined for the skip, is now given a new lease of life by our students.
These free resources also help make the creative process more affordable and accessible for our students.
Rough scrap materials are ideal for making crude prototypes.
They can be spray painted to give the appearance of other, more costly materials and will still demonstrate the project’s working ability.
Physical models are an essential part of the design process, and are used to check the size, proportions and functionality of a design.
They also reveal any unforeseen problems.
The nature of learning and developing ideas means designers must create lots of physical models and prototypes as they tweak and hone their designs.
Scrap materials are also perfect for creating tools and moulds that can be used to vacuum pack plastic or cast materials like cement.
So, there are many ways they facilitate larger projects in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly way.
A current example is our first-year Product Design students, who have been using the materials as part of a lighting design project.
Jakob Timerdahl and George Cooper are two of the students working on this project.
“I think it’s a really cool collaboration,” Jakob told the Ravensbourne news team.
“I’d never been aware of it before, but you realise how much is thrown away.
Some of the material is quite expensive too.
The other day I found some light brushed steel.
I needed something reflective, like a mirror, for my lamp project and this worked perfectly.”
“It feels good,” George added.
“You don’t feel so bad for using as much materials as you need.
And it’s good to see something that would have been thrown away looking good at the end.”
Nadine Bennet, Co-Course Leader of Product Design explained: "Sustainable design is embedded in the design thinking and culture of the Product Design course.
We started this initiative to improve the student engagement with model making and make it easier for them to produce their models by providing access to free materials.
"We are really pleased to see how students value that the materials are from waste that will be given a second life rather than ending up in landfill.
Ravensbourne champions sustainability through its Environmental & Sustainability Working Group (ESWG).
This initiative supports good practice and we hope to implement more environmental measures in the future."
We would also like to take this opportunity to celebrate that Ravensbourne Product Design students have been nominated for Beyond Plastic awards:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/product-design-student-creates-ingenious-edible-packaging:
Graduating student, Holly Grounds, has created edible, dissolvable food packaging that has been celebrated in design publications.
Holly will graduate from the BA (Hons) Product Design course in December and has already been featured in both Icon Magazine and Dezeen.
Holly’s edible ramen packaging and biomaterials are among the five sustainable design projects from the graduate class of 2020 showcased in Dezeen’s Virtual Design Festival .
This year’s exhibit theme is ‘circular economy’, which looks at a sustainable economic system that eliminates waste.
The theme was chosen in response to a surge of design students tackling environmental issues in their work.
Holly explained that her design stemmed from her shock regarding the amount of single-use plastic in ready-made meals, stating that ‘in the world of ramen noodles there is often more plastic, than noodle.’ Holly has successfully designed packaging that ’reinvents the way ramen noodles are cooked and consumed at home while decreasing the environmental impact of excessive single-use plastic.
Flavourings and spices are set in the film and released when the film dissolves, eliminating the need for plastic sachets.’
Holly explained that ‘sustainability was considered at every stage of the project.
The biobased starch film is dissolvable and manufactured in an environmentally friendly way, by heating the natural ingredients and allowing the mixture to set in a mould to form the film and the outer paper packaging is recyclable.’ Holly hopes to develop this exciting project further, exploring the world of dehydrated meals and portion control.
During development, Holly conducted speed tests, comparing her edible, dissolvable noodle pack to a standard off the shelf noodle pack.
She discovered that without the fuss of plastics, the cooking process was much easier.
Her design also incorporates a ring shape for the dried noodles which gives it a larger surface area to cook the noodles quicker and more evenly.
Icon Magazine is a globally respected industry favourite specialising in architecture, design culture and products.
It is known for having one of the most comprehensive archive of admirable design work and creativity.
Dezeen is known as the world's most popular and influential architecture, interiors and design magazine.
It is an astonishing achievement for Holly to have her work showcased in both Icon and Dezeen Magazine, before even graduating.
Holly won the WPO WorldStar Student Award and the Starpack Student Award previously, which you can read about here .
We wish Holly the very best of luck in her impressive career moving forward!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/four-product-design-students-nominated-beyond-plastic-awards:
Four Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Product Design students  have been nominated in the Beyond Plastic Awards.
The students are among 85 nominees who have displayed solutions to create a world with less plastic.
Students Toby Robson, Charlie Cavedaschi, Holly Grounds and Jennifer Chu were nominated for the Beyond Plastic Award which looks to highlight fantastic eco-responsible product and packaging designs.
Beyond Plastic is an environmental initiative on a mission to remove single-use plastic from packaging, and minimise the devastating impact plastic has on the planet.
Nominees are tasked with creating ideas that eliminate single-use plastic, with the chance to win cash prizes of up to €1000.
The judges searched for unique, thought-provoking and inventive designs.
The criteria for nominees include designs that are eco-friendly, useful, beautifully imagined and interesting.
Each nominee demonstrated innovation and creativity, with sustainability at the core of their ideas.
Charlie Cavedaschi’s ‘Shower Pod’ product was inspired by the fact that bathroom waste accounts for approximately 40% of total landfill waste.
The solid spheres of bathroom washing products are wrapped in water-soluble film called MonoSol .
The Shower Pods take 3-8 seconds to dissolve, create zero waste and eliminate the need for large plastic bottles.
The design allows the shower pods to be hung beside the shower, with the perfect portion easily accessible.
When speaking about his nomination, Charlie said, "I was delighted to find out that I had been nominated for the Beyond Plastic Award.
As sustainability is now more in focus than ever before, it was extremely rewarding to have one of my designs recognised for playing an important role in helping to save the planet.
Fellow student Holly Grounds created edible, dissolvable ramen packaging for ramen noodles.
The design includes flavourings and spices set in an edible film around the noodles which eliminates the need for single-use plastic.
During development, Holly found that compared to a normal packet of ramen noodles, her design eliminated unnecessary packaging and led to a much quicker cooking time.
When discussing the design, Holly explained that, “sustainability was considered at every stage of the project.
The bio-based starch film is dissolvable and manufactured in an environmentally friendly way, by heating the natural ingredients and allowing the mixture to set in a mould to form the film and the outer paper packaging is recyclable.”
Fellow student, Toby Robson, used bio-degradable seaweed packaging made by Notpla for sachets of milk.
Toby's solution replaces the individual milk pots that are often used in Hotels and at functions.
His container preserves the quality of milk and extends the life of the product by creating separate portions.
Toby explained, “I needed a way to hold milk portions that would not be effected by the liquid, this restraint was a challenging parameter but the whole experience was rewarding when I reached my final outcome.”
Student Jennifer Chu designed Porzioni Di Pasta, a concept to add portion control to carton board packaging.
The tear-away strip included in the packaging allows users to pour out the recommended portion of 75 grams of pasta.
She designed a range of containers that work with a variety of different pastas.
Her designs were inspired by the Memphis art movement and their futuristic colour palettes.
Jennifer said “I think that the opportunity for young designers to enter competitions like these are important to put yourself and your work out there.
I encourage others to enter as many as possible!”
It is a great accomplishment to be chosen as finalists in a global design competition.
We congratulate all of the students involved and wish them the best with their future endeavours.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/students-showcase-sustainable-denim-brands-kingpins-show:
As part of an annual denim innovation project with global denim trade show, Kingpin’s Show, Ravensbourne’s second year fashion students have been challenged to create a complete denim brand in just ten weeks.
Ravensbourne’s second year fashion students have been challenged to create a complete denim brand in just ten weeks, by global denim trade body, Kingpin’s Show.
Working in groups from the design and branding-based courses, students were given access to fabrics from some of the most sustainable denim mills across the globe, including Lenzing, YKK and Jeanologica.
Sustainability is one of the most pressing issues in the fashion industry, with denim production being a particular challenge in terms of its environmental impact when mass produced.
Almost 11,000 litres of water are used to make one pair of jeans.
Students responded to the challenge in a variety of ways; one group aimed to better educate their consumers on how to maintain their garments, while another looked to ensure every piece of their collection is fully recyclable, promoting circular design principles.
The collections were unveiled at a private view on Friday 17 January, with a panel of industry experts choosing three collections to exhibit their designs in Amsterdam and New York with project partners Kingpin’s Show.
‘GiLD)E’, comprised of Ben Malcolm, Rosa Rohde, Sandra Cuesta Sanchez, Tahira Ismail, Ivan Svanberg, Ella Breakwell, Laura Brown and Dominique Wilkinson, were awarded first place prize.
Their designs take inspiration for the Whitechapel Road Working Lads Institute of the 1880s, which provided young men with the opportunity to learn new lifeskills and find employment.
As well as using sustainable fabrics provided by Hewitt Heritage Fabrics, the group include a ‘Care Package’ with their collection, complete with sewing equipment and instructions, encouraging buyers to maintain and upcycle their products.
Runner-up places were awarded to SA.CRO, who aimed to show how denim is considered ‘sacred’ to the fashion field, and Éphémère, which translates as ‘lasting a very long time’ in French.
Commenting on behalf of GiLD)E, Ivan said, “It was such an honour to have our work recognised and applauded by industry professionals.
The project brief, focusing on sustainability was always the driving force in our work.
Is this rational?
Is this ethical?
With a project focused on sustainability, you question everything and realise there is a lot of that can be improved from what is standard in the industry.
We are extremely grateful to Hewitt Heritage Fabrics for making it possible for us to be a fully ‘Made in England’ brand and produce everything locally.”
Andrew Olah, Founder of Kingpins Show added, “I was very impressed with the students’ creative work and even more impressed at the work they did to make their brands sustainable and circular.
Long term fashion success requires designers and brands to pay serious attention to the ingredients of their products and these students understood that implicitly.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student-wins-creative-conscience-award:
The Creative Conscience Awards push curiosity and encourage innovators  to create the change they want to see in the world.
The awards recognise students and graduates from around the globe for their positive social impact designs
BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design graduate Lidia Santos has won the Creative Conscience award in the Conscious Consumption category with her piece titled ‘ Through the Clutter’ .
Her video explores the idea of plain packaging taking over our supermarket shelves and creating a monotone version of life as we know it.
The concept was born following the hysteria supermarkets saw during the Covid-19 pandemic which triggered a number of shoppers to take part in panic buying essential items.
You can view the 'Through the clutter' video here.
Founded in 2012, Creative Conscience is a charitable, global movement that looks to improve the communities we live and work in.
Made up of industry professionals, social entrepreneurs, educators, students and graduates, Creative Conscience celebrates the next generation of out of the box thinkers who use their talents to campaign for a healthier and more sustainable world.
Students and graduates that enter the awards can choose to create their own brief or work to an already established brief provided by the charity.
In the awards, Creative Conscience are on the hunt for socially viable, human centred design pieces or tools that are able to inspire people to make a positive impact.
Speaking of her win, Lidia says “I’m thrilled to say that I’ve won the Creative Conscience award in the category of Conscious Consumption.” By exploring consumer consumption, Lidia hopes to shine a light on what could happen to creatives if we were faced with another panic buying episode.
“Through the Clutter is a piece of design-fiction that holds up a mirror against the creative community and questions our role in a consumerism-led culture.” Her tongue-in-cheek approach to the project replicates a government announcement where they impose a universal packaging system on all products.
“It reimagines a world where designers have to comply with rules issued by the Government of England” Lidia says.
This is followed by a mock creative brief which shows that designers would have no freedom as creatives and would instead have to adhere to an obscene amount of limitations which would ultimately lead the design industry down a path of non-existence.
Creative Conscience receive an incredibly high standard of entries from around the world each year so it is an amazing achievement for Lidia to have won a Conscious Consumption award with her outstanding video.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/governance/appeals-policy-and-procedure:
Ravensbourne has a duty to ensure that it has fair and transparent procedures, which are accessible to all students, for governing academic appeals.
The term ‘appeal’ refers to the process of reviewing the decisions of Assessment Boards on the results of individual students.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/executive-team:
We are responsible for the governance and executive leadership of the university.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/meet-team/academic-leadership:
We are responsible for the academic leadership across the university as well as overseeing research, the curriculum, learning, teaching, and the student experience.
Information on individual course tutors can be found on the course pages .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/about-us/people-search:
It's our passionate people, from our academic leadership team to our students, staff and alumni, which make Ravensbourne University the unique and vibrant place it is.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/professor-shaun-borstrock:
Currently reading: Research and Innovation
Professor Shaun Borstrock is Head of Knowledge Exchange and Research and Professor of Luxury and Consumer Culture.
He is an internationally respected expert in design-led innovation, luxury branding, and creative collaboration.
As our Head of Knowledge Exchange and Research, he champions the idea that design should lead and not follow business strategy.
His work promotes the role of design as a powerful force in shaping decision-making and driving change.
With over 20 years of experience in the creative industries, Professor Borstrock brings deep insight into how design, craftsmanship and technology can come together to shape the future of luxury and consumer experiences.
His research focuses on the evolving nature of luxury in a world shaped by mass production, digital technologies, and environmental concerns.
He investigates:
Professor Borstrock is also a co-developer of Modeclix , the world’s first fully customisable 3D-printed textile.
This is a groundbreaking project that bridges technology and textile design.
Modeclix has received multiple international award nominations and reflects  his commitment to exploring new frontiers in design practice.
Alongside his academic work, Professor Borstock is a trusted independent consultant to global luxury brands and associations.
His past and current collaborators include; Fortnum & Mason, Gucci, Ford, John Lewis, Dolce & Gabbana, Asprey, Unity PR, Harris Tweed Hebrides, Thomas Pink and The Cape Town Fashion Council
He helps brands develop innovative strategies and improve product development.
His work focuses on meeting evolving consumer expectations, especially in the luxury and fashion industries.
Professor Borstock is a renowned keynote speaker at international conferences and industry events.
His talks cover topics such as:
He is also the Editor of Luxury Studies: The In Pursuit of Luxury Journal , co-author of the book Crafting Luxury (published by Intellect Books), and host of the In Pursuit of Luxury podcast , where he speaks with global thought leaders across design, branding, and academia.
Professor Borstrock's work is rooted in multi- and trans-disciplinary collaboration.
He works with institutions, industry partners, and creative communities around the world to develop projects that cross boundaries and provoke new ways of thinking.
He also holds a Visiting Professorship at the Koppelman School of Business, Brooklyn College, New York, where he contributes to thought leadership and knowledge exchange between academia and industry.
He welcomes new opportunities to collaborate across disciplines and industries.
His work continues to shape conversations around innovation, craftsmanship, ethics and the future of luxury.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/professor-natascha-radclyffe-thomas:
Professor Natascha Radclyffe-Thomas is the Course Leader and Associate Professor for the MBA in Fashion Business and Entrepreneurship .
She is an award-winning educator, researcher, and advocate for sustainable and circular fashion.
Professor Radclyffe-Thomas is a National Teaching Fellow and Fellow of the RSA, recognised for her contributions to excellence in education.
Her research focuses on sustainable fashion, creative industries, e-learning, and education for sustainable development.
Professor Radclyffe-Thomas serves as Editor-in-Chief of Bloomsbury Fashion Business Cases and Co-Principal Editor of the International Journal of Sustainable Fashion and Textiles.
She is also co-author of a leading Fashion Management textbook and is certified as Carbon Literate across workplace, education, and community sectors.
Named in The SustainabilityX® Magazine’s Global Women In Sustainability Awards™, Professor Radclyffe-Thomas was also a featured speaker at COP26.
Professor Radclyffe-Thomas is also Chair of the United Nations PRME UK and Ireland Chapter and a member of the PRME Global Expert Pedagogy Group, working globally to advance sustainability education.
She is one of the world’s first LEGO® Serious Play® facilitators using the method to promote sustainability, and currently serves as Vice Chair of the Costume Society.
A sought after speaker and media contributor, Professor Radclyffe-Thomas regularly appears in outlets including The Conversation, New York Times, Independent, BBC, CBC and NPR, offering insights into fashion, culture and sustainability.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/professor-chi-maher:
Currently reading: Leadership
Professor Chi Maher is Professor of Public Policy, Entrepreneurship & Human Resource Management .
She has over 25 years of international experience across industry and academia.
Her career spans organisational leadership, team management and teaching across levels 4 to 7, in addition to supervising doctoral students.
Professor Maher is deeply motivated by a commitment to scaffolding learning for students from diverse backgrounds and with varied prior educational experiences, helping them achieve academic and personal success.
In her roles as a Non-Executive Director of the NHS, Director of Social Enterprise Knowledge Exchange Network, and an academic leader, Professor Maher has consistently championed the integration of research and knowledge exchange into practice.
Her efforts have delivered tangible benefits to students, fellow academics, organisations, and communities across the UK and globally.
She is also a recipient of the West Focus Enterprising Business Award.
Whether she is advising organisations, mentoring students or shaping public policy through research, Professor Maher’s mission is to bridge the gap between academia and action.
This ensures that every study, every partnership, and every initiative leaves a lasting legacy.
A firm believer in the power of knowledge exchange, she has cultivated impactful partnerships with organisations across the public, private, and third sectors.
Each collaboration has been unique but unified by a shared focus on generating impact.
Throughout her career, one thing has remained constant: her unwavering commitment to using her expertise, knowledge, and networks in service of social good.
She has authored several books, and more than thirty articles published in national and international scientific journals, as well as by global academic publishers.
Her research spans a wide array of themes including social entrepreneurship, public policy, human resource management, and business strategy.
Professor Maher's professional experience bridges both industry and academia, with significant contributions to programme management, team development, and teaching.
Maher, C.
(2026).
Planning, Writing and Defending Doctoral Thesis: Strategies and Recommendations.
In The Dissertation Research Guide for the Doctoral Scholar (pp.
239-266).
IGI Global Scientific Publishing

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/professor-christos-manolas:
Currently reading: Research Interests and Professional Certifications
Professor Christos Manolas leads Ravensbourne's Audio-Visual Media (AVM) Lab and is the Course Leader for the BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production programme.
He has been passionate about music and technology from an early age, building a career that blends both fields for over 25 years.
Professor Manolas' experience spans music production, audio and sound design, software development, and audiovisual media.
He has worked as a musician, sound designer, developer, and educator across a range of academic and industry roles.
Professor Manolas' research focuses on music and audio production, immersive and spatial sound, and virtual and augmented reality.
He is also interested in multimodal perception and how digital technologies are shaping media and education.
Professor Manolas is a member of the Audio Engineering Society.
He is also certified as an Avid Pro Tools Professional (Dolby Atmos), Unity Certified Programmer (User), and Unity Certified VR Developer (User).
Professor Manolas joined Ravensbourne in 2019 after teaching as a Senior Lecturer and Subject Leader in Audio Production at Rose Bruford College (2018 to 2019) and as an Audio Production Lecturer at SAE Institute (2017 to 2019).
Before that, Professor Manolas worked at the University of York (2010 to 2015) as an Associate Lecturer and Laboratory Leader in Sound Design and Music Technology.
From 2000 to 2006, he taught IT and software development at universities and colleges in Greece.
His academic career began in 1992, teaching undergraduate music performance and theory.
Professor Manolas serves as an External Examiner for the University of Hertfordshire and is a reviewer for Sage Publications, IAFOR, and Routledge/Informa UK.
He holds a PhD in Stereoscopic 3D Media (Sound), along with postgraduate degrees in Post Production (Sound Design) and Music Technology.
His academic background also includes undergraduate degrees in Music Performance, Computing, and Creative Media.
• 776 B.C.
(2004).
[Animation/TV] Thessaloniki, Greece: ERT SA / Minotaur Digital Arts.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-orson-nava:
Currently reading: Academic Background and Research
Dr Orson Nava is a Senior Lecturer in Digital Film Production .
He is a filmmaker, academic, and cultural theorist whose work spans fiction, documentary, and critical writing.
He is a Visiting Fellow at the Centre for Refugees, Migration and Belonging at the University of East London.
Before entering academia, Dr.
Nava built a successful career as a freelance director, creating dramas and documentaries for the BBC, Channel 4 and ITV and directing music videos for major record labels including Polydor, EMI, and Island Records.
Website: https://www.orsonnava.com
Dr.Nava holds a fully funded PhD from the University of East London, where his research explored race, innovation, and the creative industries within the context of East London’s regeneration.
His academic interests continue to focus on the intersection of power, identity, and emerging technologies.
He is currently developing a Film Practice as Research Centre at Ravensbourne, aimed at fostering interdisciplinary collaboration and producing socially engaged screen work.
Nava has taught film production and theory at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels at institutions including: University of East London, Sheffield Hallam University, Middlesex University, Central Film School and London Film School
He is an alumnus of both the Northern Media School and the National Film and Television School , which are two of the UK’s most respected centres for creative media training.
Orson’s film work blends narrative storytelling with critical inquiry.
Whether working in fiction or documentary, he draws on influences from post-colonial cultural studies, psychoanalysis, urban sociology, and critical theory to interrogate systems of power and cultural identity.
At the heart of Dr.
Nava’s work is a commitment to interdisciplinarity and the belief in the radical potential of film to challenge dominant narratives, critique hegemonic ideologies, and drive cultural change.
His work is deeply engaged with the social impact of digital technologies, and how they shape identity and creative expression.
He frequently collaborates with ethnographers, sociologists, historians, and cultural theorists, using film as a tool for both creative expression and social critique.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-catherine-bedwei-majdoub:
Currently reading: Research and Knowledge Exchange projects
Catherine Bedwei-Majdoub is the Course Leader and Senior Lecturer in Business Management
She teaches business ethics, professional development, and research methodologies.
Bedwei-Majdoub has worked at several UK universities at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Previously, she held leadership posts in both the hospitality and events sectors.
Bedwei-Majdoub is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA) and a member of the Chartered Institute of Management (CMI).
Catherine Bedwei-Majdoub research focus is the meaning of 'meaning' especially the meaningfulness of ethical practice in relation to semantics and hermeneutics and the interdisciplinary contexts relevant to this relation.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/francesco-tacchini:
Francesco Tacchini is a Senior Lecturer in BA (Hons) Graphic Design and an artist.
He co-founded the artist duo, dmstfctn in 2017, a practice through which he explores complex systems through performance, installation, video games and film.
Through interactive experience, their work invites audiences into the 'demystification' of systems by replicating and replaying them.
Also, their work covers 'remystification' by building worlds, characters and myths atop them.
Francesco has performed in venues such as Serpentine Galleries , Design Museum , Corsica Studios, Cafe OTO, Berghain (Berlin) and Onassis (Athens).
As well as festivals such as transmediale, Unsound, Impakt and CTM.
He has also exhibited or screened work in venues and festivals such as Somerset House, HKW, Fotomuseum Winterthur, Nieuwe Instituut, LUMA Arles, Aksioma, Porto Design Biennale and Istanbul Design Biennale.
He is an alumni of the Royal College of Art.
Website: http://dmstfctn.net

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/sasha-djurkovic:
Currently reading: Productions
Sasha Djurkovic is an Associate Professor for BA (Hons) Digital Film Production She leads the second-year documentary film production module and oversees third-year final major projects.
Sasha joined Ravensbourne University London in 2017 and has earned a Higher Education Fellowship through the completion of a PGCert.
Aside from her academic role, Sasha is an experienced professional practitioner with almost two decades of crafting award-winning documentaries for broadcasters like BBC, Channel 4, ITV, and Al Jazeera.
She is a member of BAFTA, Directors UK, and We Are Doc Women, contributing to professional networks and development.
Sasha holds an MA in Documentary Film Directing from the National Film and TV School, known for its excellence.
Her graduation film, "Last Men Standing," received acclaim and won the Best Newcomer Award at the Sheffield International Doc Festival in 2005.
Her films have tackled challenging subject matters: mothers with addiction issues (Addicted: Last Chance Mums, BBC1), child-protection social workers (Protecting Our Children, BBC2), drug wars in the UK, USA and Afghanistan (Our Drugs War, Channel 4), and life and death at a neurosurgery ward (Brain Doctors, BBC2).
Please look at her website for more details.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-vaibhavi-chavan:
Currently reading: Current Research Focus
Vaibhavi Chavan is a Senior Lecturer in Project Management .
She has over nine years of international academic experience across the UK, Europe, Australia, and Asia.
Chavan currently serves as an External Examiner at Leeds Trinity University and is also an AWS Academy educator.
Previously, she held academic leadership roles at the University of Sunderland .
Chavan is currently pursuing doctoral research in Project Management at Alma Mater Europaea University, Austria and Slovenia.
Her research explores the integration of emerging technologies in project management.
She focuses particularly on artificial intelligence in risk management, Industry 5.0, blockchain, and people-centric skills such as emotional and cultural intelligence.
An active researcher and thought leader, Dr.
Chavan has published widely in her field and holds several technology patents.
She is a regular keynote speaker and panelist at international conferences and forums.
Her talks have been featured at events hosted by organisations, such as Nokia, LTIMindtree, Infinite Computer Solutions, QS Impact, APD Academy, PMI Indonesia, and the IEOM Society.
Her contributions to the field of project management have been recognised through several prestigious accolades, including the PMI Future 50 Honoree , PMXPO and GeCCo awards.
In addition to her academic and research activities, she actively contributes to global academic and professional communities through editorial, reviewer, and advisory roles.
Chavan holds postgraduate degrees from the University of Strathclyde (UK) and the Australian National University.
She also holds a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Her academic journey began with a degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/virna-rossi:
Currently reading: Research
Virna Rossi is the Course Leader for Central Academic Services .
She has been a dedicated teacher since 1999, working across all areas of education, and has trained other teachers since 2009.
Virna's research looks at the challenges of creating more inclusive learning experiences and how key ideas, known as threshold concepts can support effective learning design.
She has been awarded the prestigious National Teaching Fellowship by AdvanceHE , JLDHE Reviewer of the Year and has been added to the SEDA Roll of Honour .
Virna recently won Teacher of the year award and came runner up for the Change Maker academic award at Ravensbourne University London.
She is the author of an innovative book (by Routledge) on inclusive learning design.
Preview or order Virna Rossi's book 'Inclusive Learning Design in Higher Education - A Practical Guide to Creating Equitable Learning Experiences' from Routledge or from Amazon
Find out more about the inclusive learning design approach on the website inclusivelearningdesign.com
With an MA in Teaching (IoE) and several awards, Virna has been active in research and knowledge exchange for many years, with a keen interest in:
Here is a sample of her research and knowledge exchange activities.
2022 to present : Active member of the SAGE Pedagogy Advisory Board (a special consultancy body).
2021 to present : EE for BIMM Music Institute - guest speaker on the PGCert/MA at BIMM and curriculum design advice.
2020 to present : Ongoing collaboration and knowledge exchange with Aga Khan University .
2019: Staff development events for Morley College .
May: The power of three , Island of Innovation (Liverpool University) presentation with A.
Tilbury and C.
Stevens; ‘Roots to shoots’ inclusive learning design workshop ICED conference Kenya.
June: Roots to shoots’ inclusive learning design, Oxford Brookes International T&L Conference.
Cross-pollination for innovation , keynote speaker at Solent University and South Wales University.
July: PGCert refresher, SE Academic Development Network - UoL session for PGCert students.
September: Can we deliver effective student engagement when learners dip in and out?
QAA conference.
January: Inclusive Learning Design, challenges and opportunities.
Half day workshop for UoL Student success/CODE Fellows event.
February: Academic communities – QAA conference panel member
July: Inclusive Learning Design, Roots and Shoots with Virna Rossi - #MyFest23
February: How ‘contextual analysis’ helps us plan better, more personalised learning, Aga Khan University
March: Inclusive by design, A roots to shoots approach - EDI AdvanceHE conference
April: Inclusive Learning Design at TU Dublin -  Staff development session - TU Dublin
July: Inclusive by design, opportunities and challenges - Centre for Distance Education, UoL
March to April: Rear-view mirror, reflecting about practice through the lens of Universal Design for Learning principles and practices - Webinars: UoL Experiences in Digital Learning; INCLUDE
June: Roots to Shoots, Inclusive Course Design to support wellbeing - Greenwich University; UoL
July: Keynote, Intentionally Inclusive - University of Liverpool Learning and Teaching Conference.
More information here.
July: The case for using Threshold Concepts for Learning Design in Creative Education - 2021 Threshold Concepts conference
September: Threshold Concepts in the context of curriculum design Speakeasy event
April to May: Global webinar series, Starters/Main activities/Closures - Ravensbourne University London
September: Inclusive feedback, Principles and practices - UEL Teaching & Learning Symposium
November: Keynote 360° inclusive feedback - University of the Highlands and Islands, Assessment & feedback symposium
Rossi, V.
(n.d.) Educational Developer's Padlet Collection , EDTA.
University of York (Canada).
Available here.
(n.d.) Quick Transition to E-Learning [video series], INCLUDE Collaboratory.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/caroline-orme:
Caroline Orme is Associate Professor and Senior Lecturer in Editing and Post-Production.
She is an experienced editor, director, and post-production specialist with over 25 years’ experience in the film and media industry.
Her work has been screened at 33 film festivals in the UK and around the world.
She has also worked in broadcasting, including a role as an Audio Commentary Systems Operator during the 2012 London Olympics.
Caroline's technical expertise spans editing, colour grading, online workflows (to DPP HD specification), and asset management using Avid Nexis.
She is an Avid Certified Instructor and her background includes advanced post-production expertise in 3D stereoscopic editing and VR.
Recently, Caroline completed a VR prototype titled Doorway to the Subconscious: An Exploration of Health, Well-Being, Mind, Body and Spirit through VR.
Her academic research includes the journal article Do 3DS and VR Share the Same Visual Grammar?, which was published by IBC following her MSc in 3D Stereoscopic Media.
As an educator, Caroline has led live collaborative projects with organisations including the Science Museum, the Imperial War Museum, Queens House, PwC, Sharpshooters, UNESCO, and the Tag Rugby Trust.
Several of these projects have resulted in public exhibitions and screenings on the BBC Rugby Union website and Sky.
Caroline originally trained as a fine artist at Chelsea College, and her creative interests span editing, directing, painting, music, and dance.
She brings a rich blend of artistic insight and technical expertise to both her professional practice and her teaching.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/professor-tracey-cockerton-tattersall:
Currently reading: Professional Engagement and Leadership Roles
Professor Tracey Cockerton Tattersall is a highly experienced academic leader, applied psychologist, and senior manager in higher education.
With a professional background spanning the psychology of learning, occupational psychology, coaching, and psychotherapy, she has led strategic developments at faculty and university levels.
Her leadership has encompassed academic enhancement, curriculum design, inclusive learning strategies, assessment innovation, access and participation plans, and major institutional initiatives.
She has held key roles collaborating with academics, professional services, and Student Unions on wide-ranging improvements—from virtual learning environment (VLE) implementation and inclusive curriculum design to student transitions, teaching observations, and learning walk frameworks.
Professor Cockerton Tattersall brings extensive experience in national quality enhancement and policy.
She was appointed to the Office for Students (OfS) Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) subject-level pilot panel for psychology in 2018 and 2019.
Professor Cockerton Tattershall continues to contribute to evidence-based practice in education.
She has also served as:
She has played a key role in building academic partnerships at both national and international levels.
Professor Cockerton Tattershall is known for fostering high-performing teams, managing complex projects, and leading strategic educational initiatives.
Her expertise in research ethics led to the publication of a landmark paper in American Psychologist (2024) exploring ethical research practices in the metaverse.
She continues to advise on ethical frameworks and has contributed to the design and evaluation of ethical review systems within higher education institutions
A trained and experienced coach and retired psychotherapist, she has published and presented widely on coaching psychology, emotional intelligence, and psychological wellbeing in professional contexts.
Professor Cockerton Tattershall remains engaged in academic debates and developments in these fields and integrates psychological insight into her leadership, teaching and mentoring practices.
Professor Cockerton Tattersall has led major institutional change initiatives, including the implementation of a new virtual learning environment and the development and delivery of access and participation Plans in collaboration with APP managers.
Her quality assurance work spans academic standards, student outcomes, and teaching excellence, underpinned by a rigorous commitment to inclusive, data-informed educational practice.
Professor Cockerton Tattershall's academic work focuses on developing, applying, and evaluating evidence-based psychological principles to improve individual learning, personal development, and professional practice.
Her PhD, funded by the ESRC, explored the use of computers to enhance learning.
This led to national and international publications, reviews, and conference presentations on effective learning design.
Her subsequent research has investigated a range of psychological theories and interventions including:
She is a dedicated educator, committed to inclusive teaching and supporting neurodiverse learners and students with mental health needs.
Her academic contributions also include the supervision of ten PhD and Professional Doctorate candidates to successful completion in applied psychology.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/louis-netter:
Currently reading: Academic Background and Research Focus
Louis Netter is the Course Leader for BA (Hons) Character Design and Concept Art.
He is a practicing illustrator and animator with over 20 years of experience.
His satirical illustration has been published in magazines and books and his artwork is collected by the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Library of Congress amongst other collections in the US.
Dr Netter's animations have been screened at the Coney Island Film Festival and the Williamsburg International Film Festival.
His research film Art and Gender in South Sudan won several international awards and received an honourable mention in the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) Practice Research Awards.
He is a member of the Editorial board of Black Book: Drawing and Sketching Scientific Journal
He has a PhD from Royal College of Art in Reportage Drawing and is exploring further practice-based research in documentary comics and animation and is developing ‘comic as research’ projects following the publication of Steal This History in the journal Re-Thinking History, published by Taylor and Francis.
Dr Netter's monograph Reportage Drawing: Vision and Experience (Bloomsbury) is the only book on reportage drawing that critically evaluates the act through a theoretical lens.
His other practice based research is exploring medical narratives in the comic, community outreach and lived experience through art making in Nairobi slums.
As well as exploring the factors that impact violence against women in Southeast Asia.
Netter has completed his second graphic novel called Refuge.
The novel explores the lesser known history of displaced African Americans in the post slavery period seeking the establishment of their own communities.
Website: http://www.louisnetter.com
Dogs Under the The Table Illustration by Louis Netter
Glory New Illustration by Louis Netter
Basel Two Women Swimming Illustration by Louis Netter
Basel Bathing Beauties Illustration by Louis Netter
Mural by Louis Netter

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-oras-al-hassani:
Currently reading: Research and Key Exchange projects
Oras Al Hassani is Associate Professor and Course Leader for MSc Cyber Security and MSc Cyber Security Management.
With over 25 years of expertise in academia, research, and industry collaboration, he has contributed to the advancement of AI and Cybersecurity through innovative teaching, impactful research and global partnerships.
Al Hassani has authored over 47 peer-reviewed publications, including IEEE works, and two acclaimed books on AI.
He serves on editorial boards for international journals and has fostered collaborations with universities worldwide, driving joint research and funded initiatives.
Credited as Oras Baker.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-richard-whitby:
Richard Whitby is a Senior Lecturer in Contextual Studies in Film, TV and Media and Year 3 Lead for Digital Film Production.
His current research examines what it means for performers to be live in performance and how their physical work is valued.
Whitby is exploring how this work is treated in commercial productions, how it's used in less mainstream performances, and whether it has special importance in an online cultural context.
A connection to his own creative work is the element of ‘visible labour’.
This relates to creative acts, gestures and decisions that are perceptible to an audience - whether the work is live, gallery based or distributed digitally.
Dr Whitby's artwork is predominantly video work but also extends into performance and music.
He often uses humour and is interested in handmade and rough modes of making.
He usually treats works and texts as containers, designed to house heterogenous materials that might seem like they are pulling the work apart.
Dr Whitby's work has been described as dark, weird and surreal.
He, also likes to use physical materials blended with digital techniques.
Often the subjects of Dr Whitby's critical research work are in counterpoint with the artwork he creates.
For example, the national displays that constitute Olympic opening ceremonies seek to celebrate the state, whereas his own artwork is more likely to critique it.
Mainstream filmmaking usually employs a ‘sutured’ form or realism, whereas Dr Whitby's work use a disjunctive and rough editing style.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/news/people-and-stories:
When our community talks, people stop and listen.
With our ears to the ground and our fingers on the pulse, we are leading the conversation around education in the creative arts and media.
Open your mind and get inspired by the wide range of thought-provoking industry talks, blog posts and podcast episodes available.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion:
budding fashion designers who wish to discover their fashion identity, develop a diverse skillset and engage with industry giants.
This fashion degree in London, UK, has a glowing international reputation for creating highly-employable graduates with distinctive design identities.
One of the top student-accredited fashion design courses in the country, with 93% student satisfaction*, you will graduate with an industry-ready fashion toolkit.
* Source: National Student Survey (NSS), 2020
Image taken backstage at Graduate Fashion Week 2018 shows student Harry Adams' design work.
Innovation designs for the denim trade show, Kingpins Show.
Created by students Buster Hawksworth, Milda Gatelyte, Martin (Chak) Chan, Alessia Casati, Maria Dikaros, Jasmin Doolin and Abigail Allesbrook.
Designs by undergraduate students Sabrina Bonatesta, Lauren Ibbs and Zahra Kahn.
This flagship fashion course in London, UK, offers budding fashion designers the opportunity to study both traditional and innovative practices in fashion design, development, pattern cutting, sampling and digital design.
You will explore how computer-aided design and emerging digital technologies are helping to innovate the fashion creation process – from idea through to production.
You’ll develop an enviable skillset across the fashion design spectrum.
This degree in fashion is geared towards developing fashion designers with industry-ready skills who have a firm grasp of research and concept development methodologies.
You’ll add an academic backbone to your natural design flair, discover and develop your distinctive creative identity, and hone the techniques and knowledge you’ll need to stand out from the crowd.
You’ll have constant industry engagement, be involved in live project briefs, and receive help to secure a work-based learning opportunity for one term of the course.
Students have previously secured work-based learning opportunities in London, Antwerp, Paris, Milan and New York.
They’ve been given a taste of life at some of the world’s most prestigious fashion brands, including Givenchy, Viktor & Rolf, AF Vandevorst, Haider Ackermann and Calvin Klein.
During the fashion degree, you will also work on industry-led design briefs and competitions, with the likes of VF Corporation, which encompass Timberland, Wrangler, Lee and North Face and Kingpins denim.
Excuse the name drops, but the name on the label is pretty important in this business, and why shouldn’t you learn from – and aspire to be – the best?
When you study the BA (Hons) Fashion degree, you will work collaboratively across disciplines to learn how the latest 3D and design technology is helping to transform processes and innovate fashion creation.
You will consider your design signature from the get go.
Our course leaders will oversee your growth as a fashion designer and be ably supported by other staff and visiting professionals.
Students will soon be able to choose the digital technology for fashion pathway as part of their second-year studies.
Students will build fundamental skills in textiles, digital design directives, and the most current industry software and technology.
There is an emphasis on understanding fashion with a focus on signature and direction.
We encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research throughout this year.
Modules:
Students will gain greater understanding of creative collaboration and start to build a skills based portfolio.
We support all our students to undertake a work placement in the final term.
Students start to solidify ideas about their signature pieces and brand.
Digital Technology for Fashion pathway modules:
Students will bring their learning together in a self-directed design project, ready for show or exhibition at the degree show.
We ask students to show their contextual studies research and thinking in a long form dissertation.
Students will bring together their skills in an industry ready portfolio whilst at the same time being encouraged to enter external competitions.
We may also consider a combination of portfolio and academic qualifications and take into consideration progress made during studies and/or relevant work experience.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Fashion degree course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.
In person interviews
If you attend your interview in person, you will present a variety of work in the form of a physical portfolio and supporting sketch books.
We accept all sizes of portfolio from A3 to A1.
The portfolio and sketch books can also include:
Online interviews
Digital portfolios should include some or all of the above elements scanned and presented in the form of a clearly laid out and easy to navigate file.
Please note: A range of separate individual sheets is not acceptable.
Simply select your chosen start date using the 'Apply now' dropdown at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate application form.
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England,  language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international section .
As well as womenswear and menswear designers, the BA (Hons) Fashion course can also allow you to find employment in the following roles:
Accessories designer, art director, academics and teachers, activewear designer, atelier manager, brand managers, buyer, curator, childrenswear designers, costume designer, denim designer, digital designer, digital operations, data analyst/insights, display designer, e-comms developer, fabric buyer/developer, factory sourcing, graders (pattern), homeware designer, influencer/talent management, interiors for retail, jewellery designer, knitwear technician, lingerie/intimates designer, merchandiser, pattern cutter, studio manager and trend forecaster.
Students have gone on to secure positions at brands such as ACNE, Alexander McQueen, Burberry, Chloe, Givenchy, Joseph, Louis Vuitton, Maison Margiela, Oscar De La Renta, Stella McCartney and Victoria Beckham.
Throughout the course, students work on industry-led design briefs and competitions.
This is an opportunity to apply their creativity and design sensibility.
In the past, students have worked with some of the biggest brands in the world of denim - VF Corporation encompassing Timberland, Wrangler, Lee and North Face.
Recently, a strong and exciting relationship has been established with Kingpins denim.
Students have also been exposed to industry briefs with international fashion brands such as Roksanda, Haider Ackermann, Christopher Kane, Palmer Harding to name a few.
A work-based learning opportunity is an integral part of the learning experience at Ravensbourne.
Past students have secured opportunities at prestigious brands such as Givenchy, Viktor & Rolf, AF Vandevorst, Haider Ackermann, Ann Demeulemeester, Joseph, Mary Katrantzou, Craig Green, Peter Pilotto, Hussein Chalayan, Christopher Kane, Calvin Klein, among many world-leading brands.
Ifeanyi has designed outfits for Bridgerton actors as part of an official collaboration between Netflix and the British Fashion Council (BFC) and has also won the prestigious main prize at the 36th International Festival of Fashion, Photography and Fashion Accessories in Hyères.
London-based womenswear designer who launched her eponymous label in 2015.
Her clothes have attracted attention from high-profile figures such as Lady Gaga, Jorja Smith, Abwoa Aboah and Kylie Jenner.
Studio & Production Coordinator at Bethany Williams
Working for luxury menswear brand, Ermenegildo Zegna in Milan
Head Designer at luxury streetwear brand Only the Blind in Shoreditch, London
It was amazing to see the quality of work created by students and how committed they are to what they believe in.
The details of the collections produced by the Fashion students felt very professionally produced and modern, so I was quite excited about what I saw.
Claire Waight Keller , Former Artistic Director, Givenchy, and Ravensbourne graduate
For the first time ever, Ravensbourne University fashion and gaming students collaborate to chart a course for the future of fashion.
Saman Sajjad, a BA (Hon) Fashion graduate presents her collection, Unromantic Love at London Fashion week.
The inspirational research, materials, silhouettes and textile are based from the paintings of Cupid and Psyche's love story and renaissance.
Read the full article now
Alumnus Jasper Toron's career took off after studying on the BA (Hons) Fashion programme specialising in menswear.
After graduating he had roles at Mulberry, Tom Ford, and launched his own studio in 2022.
Ravensbourne Alumna Paria Farzaneh new line Blind Foresight, making fashion more accessible.
Discover the sketchbooks and final looks of the 15 graduates from Ravensbourne University.
New York -based Journalist Marc Bain covers Ravensbourne University launching a 'first-of-its-kind' digital technology course for fashion.
London Fashion Week handpicks alumna Cristina Alagna to feature in their blog
London Fashion Week throws a spotlight on alumna Paria Farzaneh
Ravensbourne University London alumni, Hannah Coffin, features in Marie Claire.
Alongside mastering the latest fashion technology, you will also be taught how to effectively use industry-standard software, such as Clo3D, Marvellous Designer and Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop.
With access to the latest camera equipment and video editing software, Adobe Premier Pro, you will also expand your awareness of different creative fields and learn the value of interdisciplinary exploration.
One of the best things about our facilities is that they are open to all students no matter what course they are studying.
Watch the video and then scroll through the gallery to see what else you could use.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/students-illustration-featured-london-magazine:
An MA Illustration student has had her artwork published by Londnr magazine after being shortlisted in a competition for professional artists.
Emma Cheesman entered the magazine’s ‘Summer in the City’ competition, which tasked entrants with depicting what summer in London means to them.
Londnr is an online and print magazine that covers culture, the arts, lifestyle, and more in the capital.
The winner of the competition had their artwork used on the cover of the Londnr summer issue.
Emma’s entry is a mixed media piece featuring characters that she has been developing as part of her Master’s degree in MA Illustration .
My tutor, Tony, is always encouraging us to enter competitions and live briefs, as he says it gets you working and illustrating in a similar way to that of the industry we wish to enter.
Emma Cheesman , MA Illustration student
Emma said: "I hope that completing an MA in illustration will be just the beginning, and that a career full of bright colours and my topsy-turvy characters will follow.
Doing what I enjoy for a living is the dream."
Talking about her inspiration for the work, she added : “Summer in London to me is all about sitting in parks with friends and family, sipping on drinks and grazing on snacks in the sun.
“This is the first illustration competition I have entered, so I feel proud to have been selected as one of 20 shortlisted illustrators, especially as student.
It's provided me with the confidence to keep entering future competition.”
See more of Emma’s work:
Instagram: @odds andems
www.oddsandems.co.uk

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/fashion-students-make-their-mark-london-fashion-week:
Ravensbourne students have impressed industry and fashion media guests at an official catwalk show at London Fashion Week 2023.
Held on Saturday 10 June in central London, the packed, invitation-only event was attended by a mix of VIP fashion guests, including press, stylists, fashion houses, influencers, and professional models.
A total of 15 third-year BA (Hons) Fashion students presented their final collections at the event, with each showing five looks.
They were selected by an industry panel to present at the show, which was part of the official London Fashion Week 2023 schedule, approved by the British Fashion Council (BFC).
It was followed by a VIP Drinks event, hosted by Ravensbourne’s vice chancellor, Andy Cook, where work from our BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management and BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion students was on display for guests.
The show was pulled together with the help of a creative team from The Only Agency , whose other creative partnerships include the likes of Chanel, Bvlgari, Givenchy, Fendi, and more.
Professional Stylist Emily Evans helped pull the collections together into a single, cohesive show.
The Hair Lead for the show was Pete Burkill and the Make Up Lead was Maria Comparetto.
Professional industry photographers and videographer also attended.
Backstage photography was done by Jason Lloyd Evans and backstage video by James Thompson.
Creative Capital, a society run by our film and TV students, livestreamed the event on social media.
Special thanks also go to Gurmit Matharu, our head of BA (Hons) Fashion, and Chloe Culpin, from our in-house creative agency CreativeLab, for organising the event.
Attending fashion press included the Evening Standard Fashion, Show Studio, Browns, Perfect Magazine, Womenswear Daily (WWD), and more.
Talent teams from fashion houses, including COS, also attended.
I’m very happy with how the show ended up.
I was working behind the scenes last year, so to see my work up there this year was great!”
Hanaa Azhar Yusuf , BA (Hons) Fashion graduate
[Guests] have been really complementary about the quality of work coming from our students.
This is a huge international opportunity for Ravensbourne students, this show is very unique to us and how we link up with industry.”
Andy Cook , Ravensbourne Vice Chancellor
Chloe Culpin said: “This was such a great opportunity for students to work alongside industry professionals.
We showcased to a high industry standard, and the team have always been so impressed.
“Guests today have mentioned how great the show was, and that the collections were on a par with seasoned designers – and that it was a highlight of the season!”
A full list of the students who presented:
Monica Masnita – womenswear @masnita.monica
Adam Pun – menswear @adampun__
Saman Sajjad – womenswear @s_officialss
Seo Yoon Lee – womenswear @leeseoarchive
Bella Zhang – menswear @bella_zhang98
Salma Tahir – womenswear @the.salmatahir
Hannah Thorogood – menswear @h.thorogood
Rhys Brock – womenswear @r.b.r.o.c.k
Bella Patterson – womenswear @bella.patterson
Hanaa Azhar Yusuf – menswear @azhar.archives
Emmy Banks – womenswear @emmyabanks
Neda Vaitkeviciute – womenswear @neda_vaitkeviciute
Maria Rupprecht – menswear @ma.rupprecht
Hai Li Sung – womenswear @h.s.fashionaccount
Annie Severs – womenswear @anniegsevers

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-architecture-student-receives-gensler:
One of our Year 3 Architecture students, Bewaji Oyesanya, has been awarded with a 'Diversity in Design' prize from Gensler.
The award is designed to help break down the barriers to entering the architectural profession for underrepresented ethnic minority students in the United Kingdom.
Applicants must submit a selection of their best design work to be considered, alongside a recommendation from the dean of their school.
Gensler is a global architecture, design, and planning firm.
It runs yearly competitions around the world to help design students overcome the costs associated with higher education.
Huge congratulations to Bewaji - she is one of seven students from across the country who were recognised in the 2023 awards.
We admire Bewaji's dedication and drive during her time in the Department of Architecture at Ravensbourne.
We eagerly anticipate her future endeavours in the field as she works towards her ambition of becoming a qualified architect.
We appreciate the invaluable support of companies like Gensler in helping our students achieve their aspirations and breaking barriers to entering the profession.”
Alberto Villanueva , Head of Architecture
Learn more about our BA (Hons) Architecture course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/second-year-students-whimsical-animation-goes-viral:
Millions of people around the world have been moved by an animation created by our second-year BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication student Niamh Bradbury, after it became a runaway hit on Instagram.
As of the time of writing, well over four million people have viewed and interacted with the animation, which Niamh posted to her Instagram in February.
The 10-second clip, set to the song ‘I don’t care how long it takes’ by d4vd, is thought-provoking, melancholic… and a little bit mysterious.
Many people felt that the animation spoke to them on an emotional level.
People from across the world took to the comments to express how it made them feel, remember people they loved, and discuss the meaning behind the animation.
I never even for a second expected it to go as viral as it did.”
Niamh Bradbury , Second-year Illustration for Communication student
“A lot of people messaged me expressing that they felt understood through my video and that was so emotional,” Niamh said.
“People were connecting to something that I was feeling, and I was finding a way to express it through my animation.
It's been a really lovely experience.”
Huge congratulations to Niamh for her success!
What does the animation make you feel?
Find out more about our BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication course

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/two-ravensbourne-student-projects-win-new-blood-awards:
Out of thousands of entries, two projects by Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students have won prizes at the 2023 D&AD New Blood awards, including a prestigious 'white pencil' award.
The D&AD New Blood Awards is one of the most important and fiercest advertising competitions in the world.
This year, there were thousands of entries, resulting in just 170 winners picked by a panel of industry judges.
The New Blood Awards are known as 'pencils', which come in a range of colours representing different achievements.
We are enormously proud to have two sets of winners, including a white pencil impact award.
White pencils are given to exceptional projects that drive behavioural, environmental, societal, or policy change through creativity.
This is an incredible achievement, as only seven white pencils were awarded this year.
In addition, Charlie won a place at the D&AD New Blood Academy, in partnership with WPP.
Only 30 spots total were given, so places are very competitive.
Some of the biggest brands in the world set briefs for the competition.
Students are tasked with creating advertising campaigns for them as if they were real clients.
We are really proud of our Advertising and Brand Design wins.
Both are great responses to briefs with purpose.
Thousands of students enter each year from all over the world, so it is fantastic to have two of our teams in the awards this year.”
Paula Williams , Acting course leader for BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design
The competition is open to advertising, design, and marketing students worldwide, as well as recent graduates and emerging creatives.
It’s an unparalleled opportunity to get a head start in the creative industry.
Emily, Pablo, and Reiss’s ‘It’s Simply Healthcare’ campaign is focused on challenging the stigma and misconceptions surrounding abortion.
They created an interactive campaign that asks viewers to fill in the gaps to redefine how we view the procedure.
Benjamin and Charlie created a campaign to raise awareness of Giff Gaff’s recently earned B-Corp status, which they describe as ‘like getting an ethical MOT for business’.
Their campaign uses warm and humorous metaphors to highlight the company’s transparency – a tenant of B-Corp status.
Find out more about our BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-hosts-spectacular-2023-nasta-awards-ceremony:
Ravensbourne University London hosted the 2023 National Student Television Awards (NaSTAs) in a completely student-led extravaganza.
The professional, large-scale event was organised, planned, and pulled together by Creative Capital, a content creation society run by Ravensbourne students.
It took place over three days from Friday 14 to Sunday 16 April in the Ravensbourne building on the Greenwich Peninsula next to the O2, with guests from across the UK attending.
The NaSTAs are the UK’s most prestigious and longest-running student TV awards – and the ceremony hosted at Ravensbourne marked its 50th anniversary.
The annual ceremony celebrates all aspects of student-led TV production.
A team of over 30 Creative Capital members were involved in the organisation of this year's event, a collaboration of students from across our BA (Hons) Digital Television Production , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production and BSc (Hons) Broadcast Engineering courses.
They were involved in all aspects of hosting and managing a live event, which they coordinated around their fulltime studies.
In addition to being the host, Ravensbourne also celebrated the wins of several of our Creative Capital students on the night.
The team took home one gold and four bronze awards:
With this incredible achievement under their belts, there is no question that these students are ready for great things when they step into industry after graduating.
Lia Saunders, Creative Capital’s Channel Director and a third-year BA (Hons) Digital Television Production student, was instrumental in pulling the show together.
If I were to round up the NaSTAS in a few words, I would say last weekend was one of the proudest moments of my life.”
Lia Saunders , Creative Capital Channel Director and TV student
She added: "11 months in the making and it all came down to this, which couldn't have gone any better.
It is something that we have put our everything into at Creative Capital and I am beyond pleased with the outcome.
“Seeing the event come together from what was just a small idea was the best experience I could have asked for, and a lovely way to round off my time at Ravensbourne, surrounded by people who worked so hard and care so much to make it happen.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/itv-x-motion-graphics-collaboration:
Students on the BA (Hons) Motion Graphics course were recently involved in an exciting project with ITV.
Fiona Skinner, the Head of Design at ITV Daytime and Laurie Griffiths, the Deputy Head of Design worked with Tim Platt, the course leader on the motion graphics course to set the students a real-life brief.
The brief that was set by ITV challenged students to refresh an existing brand.
The students were given the choice of two brands to work on, both of which ITV currently broadcast on air.
The aim of the brief was to create a refreshed brand look, while still maintaining a sense of its core identity.
Fiona and Laurie were incredibly impressed with the students’ work and are in discussions with course leader Tim about potential future collaborations.
We caught up with Fiona to discuss the project and how the students addressed the brief.
It was quite a quick turnaround.
We only gave the students six weeks to complete the project.
This fairly tight deadline was quite realistic considering the sorts of deadlines we are given in our work.
Sometimes we might only have six days, or even six hours to turn a piece of work around, so we felt it was great practice to give the students a taste of how fast-paced the work can be too.
How do you feel the students approached the task?
Were you pleased with the results?
We were really impressed with the results.
The quality of the ideas and the amount of effort the students put into the work was excellent.
We thought Tim’s methods for teaching and conveying the brief was outstanding too.
Hopefully the project has opened their eyes to a different field that they might not have thought about previously.
We showed them our showreel to help them to understand how they might design a brand that millions of people can see; something that would appear in everyone’s homes, on laptops and on people’s phones.
Hopefully it helped educate the students about different career opportunities.
Students don’t tend to know that we exist, and if they do, they don’t tend to think about going into broadcast.
It was about opening their eyes to what’s possible and communicating to them what a great place ITV is to work.
To see what understanding the students had in terms of ITV and motion graphics.
A lot of the team at ITV come from a broadcast background, and this has a lot of emphasis on design.
We have found that the focus of many design colleges and courses is print and more logo-based, and often they aren’t thinking about movement or the entire scene.
We wanted to give the motion graphics students a challenge and we were intrigued to see what they came up with in.
They could choose from a couple of projects, and we were really interested to see how they would approach the brief.
The task was around refreshing an existing brand design and focused on two brands that we already work with.
The first was a campaign against breast cancer, ‘Change and Check’, which has been operating for a couple of years and airs on our Lorraine programme.
It is already a very successful campaign and a well-established brand, so the challenge here was to design something new, while retaining the brand’s core identity.
The second brand was Martin Lewis, who is a money-saving expert and a regular presenter on ITV, as well as having his own programme.
This one was around working with an infographic, which could, on paper, be a bit drier.
For this brief the students had to consider how to bring this to life.
We thought we would give the students two projects to choose from, because the two are so distinctly different and so would appeal to completely different audiences.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/awards-success/student-nominated-sony-world-photography-competition:
Third year BA (Hons) Digital Photography student Mary Ashokeji was recently nominated for the Sony World Photography Awards student competition.
For this year’s competition, students were challenged to submit five to ten images which explored the theme ‘In a Changing World’.
As part of the brief, they were asked to show positive stories of development and progress, drawing on inspiration from topics such as environment, technology, and the way we work and live.
In Mary’s work, she draws from her own experiences of worship and captured a series of emotive images featuring people from her own church.
Mary is one of nine nominees and the overall winner will be announced on 15 April 2023.
We chatted to Mary about how she tackled the brief, what the nomination means to her and life at Ravensbourne.
I actually only joined the BA (Hons) Digital Photography course last year, as before this I was enrolled on the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course.
Every year, students on the digital photography course can submit work for the competition, and so my tutors encouraged me to take part.
I’m in my third year now on the digital photography course, but when I was in my second year on the advertising and brand design course, I had a bit of an epiphany.
To give a bit of background, it was during the end of the pandemic, and I was living away from home in London.
I had also just been diagnosed with ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder).
I initially chose the advertising and brand design course because I thought I wanted to move into art direction, but I have been studying and taking photographs since I was in college.
I realised that photography has always been my greatest passion, and so this is what I wanted to refocus on.
The course leaders helped me work through my decision and allowed me to switch courses.
It took me a little while to develop my idea for the brief.
I thought the work should share a common theme with the other body of work I have, and I knew I wanted it to be personal to me.
As a Christian, church and worship plays an important role in my life.
In the past I’ve helped with putting together some social media content for my church, so this is what gave me the initial idea.
I decided to focus on worship and people’s individual expressions of worship.
A week before, my friend had asked me to shoot one of the services, so it was great timing.
I had a few test shots, which came out really well, so that’s how the idea was born.
I spoke to my course leaders, and they agreed that it was a great theme.
We then discussed the specifics together, like the sort of camera I should use and the types of angles I wanted to get.
The piece itself is called ‘Expressions of Worship’.
There are many ways that you can express yourself in worship, but I wanted to hone in on the physical expression and to try to reveal its intimacy.
I had no expectations about being shortlisted and honestly it came as a massive surprise.
I think it was quite bold to create a series around religion, and it was great to see how diverse the different entries are.
It’s such a personal topic for me, and so it was amazing to get recognition for a theme that is so close to my heart.
It has really opened my eyes to what I might like to pursue in the future and the area that I want to specialise in.
This opportunity has made me even more sure that I want to focus on documentary and photojournalism.
I think my work is a continuous journey of understanding my own style and drawing from experiences in my own life as inspiration.
I think I’ve developed my own personal style over time.
I recently noticed, when I was writing my personal statement for my Masters, that I felt a lot more confident putting my ideas across – I think my confidence is growing all the time.
I also think that my ADHD allows me to see things that other people don’t see.
I’m constantly finding inspiration for my photography wherever I look.
As an example, whereas someone else might use a spice cupboard to organise things in the kitchen, I might use something else that works better for me.
It’s the same with my art, something might catch my eye that maybe other people wouldn’t see or wouldn’t take much notice of.
I think it allows me to naturally have a good eye for negative space; I can move the tripod around and find angles that wouldn’t necessarily jump out to other people.
I’m really grateful to the tutors on my course, as without them I wouldn’t have pushed myself to apply for opportunities like this.
I think Ravensbourne provides such a great environment to learn through trial and error and take inspiration from everyone around you.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-graduate-illustrates-award-winning-transgender:
A frank and funny guide on all things transgender and non-binary for teens – illustrated by the artist Soofiya, who graduated from our BA (Hons) Graphic Design course in 2013 – has won a top industry award.
“What’s the T?”, written by Juno Dawson and illustrated by Soofiya, won the Educational Writer’s Award 2022 at a recent ceremony hosted by the ALCS (Authors’ Licensing and Collecting Society).
The award, decided by an expert judging panel, is the only one in the UK dedicated to creative educational writing.
"What's the T?" is a guide to the modern transgender and non-binary experience, praised as “incredibly special” by the panel.
“We can see it becoming an influential book indeed, with the power to open minds and hearts,” they added.
Soofiya is a visual artist and design educator, whose work often explores gender, race, politics, and bodies with a therapeutically informed approach.
"Winning this award was really special and I am incredibly grateful for the recognition," Soofiya said.
"It’s an affirmation of all the work that went into it, from Juno’s writing to my illustrations."
The Ravensbourne news team spoke to Soofiya to learn more about the process of making the book - as well as to hear some top tips for aspiring illustrators!
It feels quite meaningful to be recognised for a book that brings to light the importance of diversity and representation in non-fiction.
I hope this book will help to bring greater visibility to the stories and voices of the trans and queer community.”
Soofiya , Illustrator and artist
What was the process of collaborating on this book like?
“Collaborating on this book was an enriching experience.
I worked closely with the editorial team at Hachette Wren & Rook, we discussed the themes and messages that the illustrations needed to convey.
“I worked on creating sketches and drafts that helped shape the visual language of the book.
Throughout the process, we were all committed to creating an inclusive and empowering narrative that would resonate with our readers.
"It was amazing to see the illustrations come to life in the printed book, and to finally hold it in my hands.
and knowing the illustrations contribute to the impact of the book.”
How did you get into book cover design and illustration?
“I have always loved storytelling and visual arts and been an illustrator.
After studying graphic design at Ravensbourne, I began working on freelance projects and clients and now work as my own studio.
“My work straddles design and illustration and I’ve gradually built up a portfolio of varied illustration and design work.
Over time, I’ve developed a style and approach that captured me and felt natural to the way I draw and design.”
Do you have any advice for students currently studying or considering a course in graphic design?
“My advice to students interested in graphic design is to stay curious, persistent, and open to learning.
Design is a constantly evolving field, and there is always something new to discover and explore.
“Take advantage of the resources and feedback available to you, whether that be through classes, workshops, or online communities.
I grew the most through feedback and trying new stuff.
Cultivate a strong work ethic and a willingness to experiment and take risks.
“And most importantly, figure out your own voice and vision and then stay true to it, this bit will take time and lots of trial and error but will be the thing that brings life and meaning to your work and the world.”
Learn more about our BA (Hons) Graphic Design course
You can see more of Soofiya's work here: soofiya.com ¦ I nstagram: @soofiya ¦ twitter @soofiyaC
Photo credit Nikki Powell

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/awards-success/two-films-edited-ravensbourne-alumni-win-awards:
Two of our BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production alumni took home top prizes at the Young Arrow Awards 2022, thanks to the inspiring advertisement films they helped create.
Dominic Phipps and Beth Roberts are among the first ever winners of the Young Arrows awards , as the ceremony – which recognises emerging talent – was launched this year.
The pair fought off tough competition to be awarded the top prizes by a panel of industry experts at the competition, which is run by the British Arrows, a body that celebrates excellence in moving image advertising.
Awards were presented by the writer, director, and presenter, Reggie Yates!
Dominic
Dominic, who graduated from BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production in 2017, won Best Colourist for a video he worked on with Wrangler Jeans called ‘Long Live Cowgirls’ .
The unique advert aired on US television to coincide with International Women’s Day.
Set to a country soundtrack, the atmospheric film shows the perseverance of a young cowgirl as she bonds with her horse and learns to perform a daring stunt in the saddle.
He told us how it was created with a small crew.
“This gave us such a great flexibility to be creative with the grade, as there wasn’t a large chain of command who had input,” he said.
“The final grade is a pretty clean amalgamation of a few potential directions we could have gone, and it’s taking the best parts from each.”
On winning, Dominic said: “Winning was surreal.
I was really excited to get the nomination, and after seeing what the piece was up against in the Colour Grading category, I had really tempered my expectations of the win.
"I’m extremely proud to pick up the colour award, but to see my classmate Beth onstage winning the Editing category too made it even better!”
Beth
Beth, who graduated the same year, won Best Editor for ‘Neonatal’ , an emotive film created for the NHS as part of a recruitment drive for neonatal nurses.
The film features a powerful voiceover and integrates a lot of still images, deftly edited together by Beth.
“Working solely with stills can be inherently difficult in comparison to live action,” she told us, “as it’s difficult to convey the same emotion through a series of images versus moving images.
“It was incredibly important for me to come at this project from a place of empathy.
This all starts with researching the topic, trying to understand the subject matter and truly create a piece that speaks from a place of honesty.”
Reacting to her win, she added: “Winning was honestly completely unexpected for me.
The other nominees in my category created some incredibly beautiful pieces of work.
“I had friends and peers nominated in all categories that night, which made the evening even more special.
Getting to enjoy my success and my friends' successes at the same time was emotional.
"Dom, especially being one of those people, who I have been friends with from the beginning.
We have shared the pleasure of seeing each other grow and succeed over the past few years since leaving Ravensbourne.”
Dominic and Beth both graduated in 2017.
We asked them what career path they took to go from student to award-winning filmmakers in just five years.
Dominic: “Since graduating in 2017 it’s been non-stop!
I was at ‘Framestore’ until the end of last year, which is where I started working as a part time runner during my second year at uni.
“Over my five years there I went through the roles of runner, data-services technician (QC), colour assistant, and finally junior colourist.
I then joined ‘Company 3’ as a colourist in January 2022.”
Beth: “Whilst studying at Ravensbourne, I began working as a runner at a post-production facility named ‘Clear Cut’, which was my first foray into the world of editing.
Following this, I was a junior editor at ‘Kode Media’.
“During my final year I began working at ‘Vice’ as an assistant editor and post-production coordinator, which continued after I graduated.
Following this, I spent 18 months assisting at ‘Marshall Street Editors’ and then became an in-house editor at ‘Agile Films’.
“I am currently signed as an editor at ‘Nomad Editing Company’, where I have been for almost a year and a half.”
Do you have any advice for the students and graduates who will be following in your footsteps about succeeding in the industry?
Dominic: “My advice would be to keep in touch with each other after graduation.
The students you just graduated with will be your future clients!
“I work with many directors, cinematographers and editors who are all Ravensbourne alumni, whether they’re from my year, the years above or years below.
Right now is the perfect time to start building the foundations with other graduates, and you’ll grow together into the industry.”
Beth: “My advice to recent graduates is to keep learning, keep pulling yourself out of your comfort zone, and reach out for any and all opportunities to get yourself on the radar.
Some of the people I worked with at the beginning of my career have continued to support me throughout my journey – whether this be through mentorship or just their unwavering support.
“It’s more important than you think to stay in touch with your peers, as you’ll be working with them more than you think as you progress in the years post university!
It’s also just nice to share advice and support with those who are in the same position as you.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/humans-ravensbourne/take-break-sumayyah-bailey:
Join us as we sit down with members of the Ravensbourne community to hear about what they're up to, what they enjoy doing in their free time, and - most importantly - what’s their favourite break-time snack!
Hi!
What’s your name and what did you study at Ravensbourne?
"Why, hello!
My name is Sumayyah Maryam Bailey, and I am an MA film scholar at the University of Cambridge, a surreal and political screenwriter, an award-winning filmmaker, and a vintage fashion and ‘bookstagram’ content creator.
"I studied Digital Film Production while at Ravensbourne and I graduated in December 2022."
It’s time for a coffee break!
What’s your go-to drink or snack?
"A doughnut and a hot chocolate!
(Preferably a black forest hot chocolate – if it's the season)."
How did you get to where you are now?
"During lockdown, I had a lot of time to think about what I wanted to do with my life.
In 2021, I had taken a leave of absence from university and was due to redo my third year, due to mental health reasons.
"During this time, I had gotten back into reading, and I read Matt Haig's “The Midnight Library” .
I stayed up all night reading it and I realised that there was nothing stopping me from working toward my biggest dreams.
"A couple of weeks later, I happened to watch the Cambridge-Oxford boat race and it was then that I found out about their MPhil film course.
"Through Instagram, I had gotten into reading philosophy, and I was starting to build my library.
I also read Orwell's “1984” and Huxley's “Brave New World” and I couldn't stop talking about it .
"One day, my grandad said, "why don't you just write your dissertation on Orwell then?" – and so I did.
When I restarted my third year, I changed my dissertation topic to current affairs and it acted as the backend to my stoic philosophy, vintage-inspired, anti-utopian feature script, “In Pursuit of Seneca's Approval” (which was my final major project).
"After getting the grades I needed, securing a place at Selwyn College at Cambridge, and being awarded a CT Trust scholarship, I started my Master's in October 2022."
Tell us about what you are doing now.
"I have just started my Lent Term at Cambridge.
This term I'm taking two modules, one being Historiographies and the other being Queer Spaces.
"I care a lot about research into the intersection of race, sexuality, and disability, in the context of ‘the vintage’, so both modules are really interesting to me.
I have a lot of reading to do and screenings twice a week, but I'm finding it fascinating so far!"
What advice would you give to someone currently studying your Ravensbourne course?
"For the first years, I would say really take advantage of the time you have to make as many ‘rubbish’ films as possible.
You don't have to have figured out your style yet, but really allow yourself to experiment.
"Second and third years: If you feel like you haven't done well on a project, just remember that if it was perfect, there wouldn't be room for improvement.
I wrote a short script about our cat, Mealworm, in my second year and got a D+.
In my final year, the script went on to be a two-time finalist in a script competition!"
What is your proudest accomplishment?
"Oh, gosh!
I think I would probably say my Instagram .
I know it seems like a small thing, but I owe a lot of my success to it.
"My therapist suggested I work on completing smaller tasks to build my confidence; one of these was posting about the things I love – books and vintage fashion.
I just wanted to make some bookish friends and feel part of a community, I could never have foreseen what it would turn into.
"I'm really humbled by the kindness of my mini audience, and I look forward to sharing my future endeavours with them!"
How do you like to unwind and destress?
"I love to swim and do yoga, and I also sketch or play my ukulele.
For the last few weeks, I usually watch a ‘try not to laugh’ challenge on YouTube with a friend to take my mind off my studies!"
Quickfire questions!
A book I recently loved is… “Piranesi” by Susanna Clarke!
It is a hauntingly beautiful story.
I read it last year and I haven't been able to stop thinking about it.
It's easily my favourite book of all time!
My favourite video game is… “Drawn to Life DS”.
It's such an underrated game but the art style and soundtrack are wonderful...
I get so nostalgic whenever I listen to it – especially “Raposa Returns”!
My current favourite piece of clothing/accessory is… definitely my vintage herringbone cape coat!
It's from the 70s, but it looks very Victorian, and I feel like Sherlock Holmes when I wear it.
My drink of the summer is… the Cherry Bakewell mock/cocktail from Cosy Club!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/awards-success/ravensbourne-student-projects-shown-dezeen:
Our talented students catch the eye of Dezeen magazine
Dezeen is considered one of the world’s most popular and influential magazines in the architecture, interiors and design space.
It has an audience of approximately 3 million readers per month.
We are delighted to learn that 10 of our undergraduate students recently had their architecture projects showcased in the Dezeen magazine.
These students were from our BA (Hons) Architecture , BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures and BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture courses.
Ravensbourne’s Department of Architecture has shared proudly again the work of our students in Dezeen.
Last year we were delighted to be among the top 10 schools over 170 worldwide that received visitors on the prestigious website.”
Alberto Villanueva , Programme Director, Department of Architecture
The projects presented are a selection of different final projects from the students under the collective topic of ‘Entities and Identities in Woolwich and Charlton’.
The feature included images of their work alongside relevant descriptions.
This new collaboration highlights a selection of the work of our students that despite spending their first two years online due to the pandemic have been able to propose exciting and relevant solutions in the southeast of London: from community to sustainable strategies.
They are the architects and interior architects that will shift the industry with their skills and values.”
This is a wonderful achievement for our students given how significant and prestigious a platform Dezeen is.
Many congratulations to all 10 students who had their work featured: Raisa Aly, Connor S.J Boyd, Mahmood Turkman, Aidan Safsaf, Dre Soliman, Maryame Chlaita, Soren Sigl, Dylan White, Shania Burrage and Maggie Puiman Law.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/awards-success/graduates-award-winning-footwear-celebrates-black:
Ravensbourne fashion graduate Edwina Arthur has won a New Designers Award for her innovative footwear celebrating black women and empowering black voices.
Edwina, who graduated from our BA (Hons) Fashion Accessory and Textiles Futures course this summer, won the Pentland Brands Award at the 2022 event, and will now embark on a two-month paid placement at Pentland as a result.
During the placement, she will receive training, mentoring from creatives, and hands-on experience on project briefs set by Pentland Brands – such as designing new footwear ranges.
She won for her final major project, ‘Make a Noise’, a women’s footwear collection that explores black empowerment through music and culture.
The range combines 3D printed and knitted elements to create a distinctive look.
The soles and heels are generated using an algorithm that converts the shape of the soundwaves from Nina Simone’s song ‘Four Women’ into 3D forms.
Fabrics in other parts of the shoe also incorporate these soundwaves, as well as Ghanian-inspired patterns.
Her winning design was selected by a judging panel who had high praise for Edwina’s ‘original and progressive’ use of music and culture to influence her design process.
“Edwina’s socially-conscious design really struck a chord with us,” they said.
“We’re excited to see what she does when applying that thinking to our portfolio of brands.”
Reacting to her win, Edwina said: “I was extremely honoured to win the Pentland Award.
It felt like a full circle moment because my course did a brand project with them in my first year.
"Now, to be able to work with them – and my work being so different to first year that it's unrecognisable – means I've done something correctly!
“I want to say a special thank you to the support of my course leader, Liz, and the help from the prototyping team, specifically Johnathan, Samantha, and Nikos.”
Edwina’s attention-grabbing collection has been turning heads elsewhere too – it was also shortlisted for several awards at Graduate Fashion Week .
See more of Edwina's work on her Instagram, _edure

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-product-design-students-shine-awards-competitions:
Our incredible Product Design students have had a bumper year at awards ceremonies this summer, taking home prizes in multiple international and UK competitions.
Three of our BA (Hons) Product Design students won awards at the PIDA UK competition .
PIDA is a global contest that holds competitions in France, Belgium, Sweden, Germany, Austria, China, the UK, and the US.
It was established in 2005 to celebrate young talent give them an opportunity to get to know the carton board material.
Our student Josh Curtis is the winner of the UK competition, taking home the PIDA Gold Award.
As a result, he will be jetting off to Monaco for the Grand Finale, where an all-European winner will be selected among the respective PIDA Gold Award winners.
The Grand Finale will be held at the Luxe Pack Monaco event, the premier trade show for creative packaging.
He created ‘Ritini’ a natural chewing gum from Chios in Greece.
The jury described his product as ‘the complete package’, praising its sustainability, branding, and unique, teardrop-shaped carton board packaging.
Aqib Mirza was the winner for having the ‘highest level of user-friendliness’.
He created ‘Dried Delights’, a range of dried fruits including dates, figs, and apricots.
The judges praised its ‘well-branded and clever’ structural design, which enables easy sharing with friends and family.
Lifting off the lid reveals an attractive flower-shaped design that opens up to provide access to the dried fruit inside.
Kris Owen won the award for having the ‘highest level of sustainability’ with his entry, Canción Coffee, according to judges.
His coffee branding is all about songbird preservation.
These birds depend on shade-grown coffee plantations, habitats that sun-grown coffee is putting at risk.
The product is packaged in a recyclable paper bag with a promotional board base – complete with songbird-shaped cappuccino stencil.
From each of the competition winners this year we can see work that is informed by areas of social change and/or inclusive design.
I am proud of our young students.
They have shown responsible and robust design thinking, ensuring that their work responds to need and change.”
Nadine Bennet , BA (Hons) Product Design course leader
Three of our second-year students also won silver awards in the Starpack Students competition .
This is an opportunity for students to showcase their great ideas and solutions directly to industry.
Established in 1964, the competition challenges students to submit solutions to problems set by brand-leading companies, design agencies, and manufacturers.
The students attended an awards ceremony on Thursday 23 June, which was held aboard The Elizabethan, a paddle steamer on the Thames.
(Left to right: Prabhnoor Singh, course leader Nadine Bennet, Ella Sutherland, and Em Lemaître-Downton)
Prabhnoor Singh won silver in a brief which asked for a ’metal pack for a mobile phone and accessories’.
His work, ‘APRATIM’, was praised for its ‘excellent sleek and polished presentation’ and overall ‘luxury look’.
Ella Sutherland also took home silver for the ‘packaging to help reduce consumer food waste’ brief.
She created ‘Halv’, which aims to combat food waste.
It is bread packaging that splits in two, encouraging consumers to wrap up and preserve one half of the loaf, for example by putting it in the freezer.
Judges praised it for its ‘clever concept’ and ‘excellent understanding of materials’ .
Em Lemaître-Downton also took home a silver award in the ‘going back greener’ brief.
Her entry was ‘Smirnoff REVIVE’, which offered a greener way to share the famed vodka brand.
The judges praised the packaging and praised the minimalistic use of board.
which ‘still delivers a great pack enhancement’.
In addition, students Muhsin Uddin and Jakob Timerdahl have been nominated for the Helen Hamlyn Fixperts Awards , an international competition that champions human-centred design.
They worked alongside Rasheed, a student with dwarfism and a condition called polydactyly, which means he has extra fingers on each hand.
They created a personalised pen grip to help him hold a pen and make writing easier.
Learn more about the course and find other success stories at BA (Hons) Product Design .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/awards-success/ravensbourne-students-designs-kickstart-national:
Designs by Ravensbourne students have won over industry experts, inspiring them to launch a national competition!
The Concrete Centre has launched a national student architecture competition after being impressed by the ‘imagination, sensitivity and flair’ of Ravensbourne University London students’ work.
The Concrete Centre is a group of industry experts that provides design and construction guidance for using concrete.
This will be its first national design competition aimed specifically at students.
It soft launched the new competition in 2022 with a trial run open only to Ravensbourne students on BA (Hons) Architecture and BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture courses.
The winners were announced in March.
Our student Shania Burrage was awarded first place for her project ‘The Coal Pier’, which won praise from the judges for its use of concrete shell structures to create individual social spaces.
The second-place prize went to Agnieszka Cybulska for her 'strong concept' with the project ‘Yoga Islands’, while Maggie Law was 'highly commended' for the way her 'Whimsical Paradise' entry supported biodiversity.
These students, along with other entrants, presented their projects at the Futurebuild conference , which was held in the Excel Centre.
Shania Burrage receiving the first-place prize in the 2022 Concrete Centre competition
Agnieszka Cybulska receiving the second-place prize in the 2022 Concrete Centre competition
Maggie Law receiving the highly commended prize in the 2022 Concrete Centre competition
Hannah Fothergill-Wilson, an architect at the Concrete Centre, said the team had been ‘so impressed with the imagination, sensitivity and flair’ shown by the students in their ‘inspiring’ designs.
Writing on their website , she added: “There were some wonderful examples of students using concrete’s versatility and texture to provide platforms for different types of biodiversity.
“The judges and the whole team at the Concrete Centre were so impressed by the Ravensbourne students’ learning and designs we decided that going forward we just had to continue the competition and open it out to all schools of architecture and the built environment in the UK.”
With the 2023 competition going national, universities across the country will be invited to enter a maximum of three students’ work for submission.
The 2023 brief challenges students to design a café, information centre, nature trail, or bird-watching shelter for the Ouse Fen Nature Reserve.
Entering competitions such as this encourages students to deepen their understanding of different materials and technology to create exciting and sustainable designs.
We look forward to entering our students’ incredible designs again this year!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-make-splash-graduate-fashion-week:
Nine students from across Ravensbourne’s fashion department have been shortlisted for awards at Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) 2022.
Our talented students have made a huge impression at Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) this year!
Ruixin (Lexi) Wang , a Fashion Accessory and Textiles Futures graduate, took home an award for her butcher's apron-inspired accessories collection, while seven more students were shortlisted across a range of award categories with their incredible designs and thought-provoking ideas.
The shortlisted students include four students from our BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management course and three students from BA (Hons) Fashion Accessory and Textiles Futures.
Another student was also selected as a finalist for the Graduate Fashion Foundation’s Shelter competition.
This is a huge achievement, GFW is the largest showcase of fashion students’ work in the world, presenting the most inspiring works from both UK and international universities and colleges.
Students were nominated by their tutors, with the Graduate Fashion Foundation shortlisting 12 students in each category.
The winners were announced at ceremonies on Tuesday 21 and Thursday 23 June.
You can find out more about all our shortlisted students' projects below.
Graduate Fashion Week winner
Ruixin (Lexi) Wang – Accessories Award and The FACE Excellence Prize Award
We are enormously proud that Ruixin won the Accessories Award!
Her winning collection is called ‘New Cannibals’, which plays with the motif of a butcher’s apron.
Each of the main designs in the collection – from gloves, tables, bags, and more – can transform into aprons.
Separately, she is also an Arts of Fashion finalist with this collection.
Her collection was also shortlisted for the FACE Excellence Prize Award.
Ruixin said: “I felt so honoured to be selected by Graduate Fashion Week and Arts of Fashion.
It makes me feel more confident about my collection and my focus on accessory design.
This is also the best reward for my efforts in the past year.”
Our BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management shortlisted students
Raya Totzeva – Fashion Marketing Award
Raya was shortlisted for her ‘Borrow Browns’ concept.
Using the tagline ‘Borrow the outfit, own the moment’, it proposes a luxury clothing rental service for the fashion retailer ‘Brown’.
Raya said: “I am very honoured and excited!
It is amazing getting recognition for a project I am so passionate about – I feel like all the hard work has been rewarded.”
Tronella Atim – Media Award
Tronella was shortlisted for ‘Aikonik’, an information hub and streetwear store for women.
It seeks to carve out its own space in a traditionally male-centric market – and rejects the ‘pink it and shrink it’ strategy some brands adopt for women’s streetwear – to create a highly curated offering of selected brands for discerning customers.
Tronella said: “I am beyond happy to be shortlisted for the New Fashion Media awards by GFF – the news made my day!
This has pushed me to work even harder, and I cannot wait to present to the judges.”
Lawryne Maslowska – Culture and Heritage Award
Lawryne was shortlisted for ‘Ugly & Company’, a genderless clothing brand that celebrates and uplifts black queer voices.
It proposes a collection for this underserved market by creating ‘authentically genderless garments’.
Lawryne said: “I’m so, so grateful to have been shortlisted and very honoured.
I’m very excited to be a part of something like this, and I’d like to express my thanks to Graduate Fashion Week for creating this event where the fashion industry can come together.
I may or may not win the award, but the shortlisting in itself is a big thing for me.”
Lavinia Russo – Considered Fashion Award
Lavinia was shortlisted for ‘Analogue’, a proposed eco-minded extension for the jewellery brand ‘Angostura’.
Its collection would be sourced entirely from electronic waste to meet the fashion industry’s need to become more socially responsible and environmentally aware.
Lavinia said: “In Italy, when something is unexpected, we say ‘Non ci posso credere!’.
The shortlist is, for me, a gift after months of hard work, and the fact that it has been so much appreciated makes me super proud!”
Laura Ellerby, Senior Lecturer for Fashion Buying and Brand Management, said: “We are delighted to see our amazing talent shortlisted in every category we entered this year.
“Each student showed unwavering purpose in their submissions; from making luxury fashion accessible to all via a rental service, to putting female streetwear on an equal pedestal to male – and from designing aspirational jewellery from electronic waste, to giving a voice to the underrepresented.
“The breadth of these award categories – marketing, new media, considered design and culture & heritage – and the detail included within their proposals really show that the sky is the limit for our Class of 2022.”
Our BA (Hons) Fashion Accessory and Textiles Futures shortlisted students
Edwina Arthur – Footwear Award and The FACE Excellence Prize Award
Edwina was shortlisted twice for her project ‘Make A Noise’.
This is a women’s footwear collection that explores black empowerment through music and culture.
The shoes are constructed using algorithms that translate soundwaves from Nina Simone’s song ‘Four Women’ and fabrics with Ghanian-inspired patterns.
Edwina said: “I am honoured to be shortlisted for these awards, I feel proud and rewarded for all my hard work this year.”
Nuramira Fadzil – The FACE Excellence Prize Award
Nuramira created ‘Wearing Crafts’, a celebration of weaving culture of women in Borneo that highlights the importance of buying and wearing crafts.
The resultant collection is a range of woven bags showcasing traditional weave patterns.
Nuramira said: “I am very, very thankful and honoured to have been shortlisted!
I was really surprised to see the email and I am just so grateful for the opportunity and that my hard work for the past few months have made it through in the end.”
Sophie Palmer – Accessories Award and Fashion Concept Award
Sophie was shortlisted for ‘Manmade Me’, which explores machines and the human body.
Her range of bags takes particular inspiration from the idea of an artificial human heart.
Sophie said: “I am very pleased to be shortlisted for two graduate fashion week awards, I am looking forward to presenting my work to panel of judges.
It means a lot for something that is so close to me that I have spent a lot of time and effort on to be recognised.”
Shilah Tyrell Jackman – finalist for the Shelter x GFW Foundation competition
Shilah’s T-shirt design will be worn by GFW staff after she was selected as a finalist for the Shelter x GFW Foundation competition.
Her work will be showcased at the Shelter Boutique in Coal Drops Yard for the duration of the event after she
Shilah said: “I was surprised I won runner up.
It made me believe in myself a lot more than I do!
I received the great news at a time I really needed it!
I really am honoured to have a display with Shelter boutique and to have worked with the Shelter design team.”
Edwina, Ruixin, and Nuramira - who were all nominated for the FACE Excellence Prize - have also been selected to show at the Diversity and Inclusion event at the GFW Dome on Thursday 23 June.
They were chosen alongside 23 other students from other universities, and will talk to press and 120 industry guests.
In addition, three of our students - Emily Baker, Iman Afif, and Raya Totzeva - were chosen by the brand Dr Martens to have their portfolios reviewed as part of GFW's Portfolio Day on Friday 24 June.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/ravensbourne-returns-london-fashion-week:
Ravensbourne's spectacular return to London Fashion Week was a resounding success.
Attendance at the exclusive event was packed, with guests from across the fashion spectrum in attendance, all eager to get a glimpse at the student's debut collections.
Ravensbourne made its hotly anticipated return to London Fashion Week after impressing organisers last year, when it was the only university approved by the British Council to show as an official designer.
The event took place on Saturday 11 June at the Institute of Contemporary Arts close to Trafalgar Square, where 15 Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Fashion students unveiled their final collections.
After battling with lockdowns, remote working and limited access to campus during the first two years of their study, the students demonstrated their resilience and aptitude as they wowed onlookers at the show.
The students made their career debuts in front of some of fashion’s greats, with an audience made up of industry giants and media powerhouses.
The 15 students showcasing work at the event overcame stiff competition from fellow course mates and went through an intensive selection process to claim their place at the event.
Each student presented three looks from their final collection to a panel of judges.
Mimicking an official catwalk selection process, they explained their concepts and fielded questions from the panel to be awarded a place at the renowned event.
Representatives from a huge range of prestigious press outlets and distinguished fashion brands signed up to attend the event.
These included Caroline Rush, CEO of the British Fashion Council, Bruce Pask, Mens Fashion Director of Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, Maurice Mullen, Head of Fashion and Luxury ES Magazine, Angel Nemov, Content Editor at The Perfect Magazine, CQ Italy, Browns, SHOWStudio, 1Granary and WWD.
Ravensbourne Fashion Programme Director Gurmit Matharu said: “It is truly impressive that our students had the opportunity to showcase their personal vision on an international platform such as London Fashion Week.
"They have all shown determination in the face of adversity during the last two years, and these collections really are a testament to both their enormous talent and drive to succeed.
I have no doubt that they will go far and make their unique mark."
Chloe Culpin, Show Director for the event and Commercial Projects Manager at CreativeLab, said: “It was such a pleasure to be able to bring such an amazing team together, utilising my contacts and ten years of fashion industry experience.
The fashion students set the bar so high and really excelled, pushing themselves in the past few weeks and clear from such high praise from press and industry attending.
"Collaborating and working alongside industry professionals gave them such valuable insight and a true industry experience that they wouldn’t get anywhere else."
London Fashion Week took place Saturday 11 June to Monday 13 June, 2022.
Visit the LFW website to find out more.
The full list of students whose work was showcased:
Alessandro M.
Raso
Lillian Clark
"Uncle" Callum Docherty
Lydia Green
Yimei Chen
Vanessa Gjini
Weina Zheng
Amy Powell
Rebecca Coad
Linda Mālniece
Esther-Toyin Izedomi
Paola Ramos Contreras
Victoria Ivanova
Dimitar Chochev
Xander Jones

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-win-four-prizes-new-blood-awards:
Our third-year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students have won an incredible four awards at the 2022 D&AD New Blood Awards , one of the most important advertising competitions in the world.
Ravensbourne students will take home four ‘pencil’ trophies at the awards, which are considered a global benchmark for new talent in branding and advertising.
Competition for these distinguished awards is fierce – thousands of students from well over 100 different countries enter each year.
We are extremely proud that four groups of our students have been named as winners, which is an amazing achievement.
The winners are Marius Nordström and Oscar Sandgvist; Zain Ilyas and Calvin Kasule, Ivan Donadio, Jood Alasfoor and Taohid Miah, and Petter Ogren and Adam Thornell Bergvall.
The New Blood Awards are extremely well regarded by the creative industry, and having a 'pencil' to their names will open doors as they step out into the professional world.
These awards are a testament to the hard work and determination of our fantastic students.
They provide global recognition for Ravensbourne and demonstrate the benefits of the strategic thinking that underpins the creative work that we produce.”
Derek Yates , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course leader
The 'pencils' come in varying levels, including wood, graphite, yellow, white and black.
The grades awarded to each team will be revealed during an awards ceremony on Thursday 14 July 2022.
Including this latest batch, our advertising and brand design course has now won a 11 'pencils' total in the last five years, solidifying our graduates as among the world's best.
The awards present briefs set by real clients, which are then judged by the industry’s top creatives.
It is open to advertising, design, digital and marketing students, recent graduates and emerging creatives worldwide.
It’s an unparalleled opportunity to get a head start and land a job in the creative industry.
This year, 18 of the most recognisable brands in the world invited entrants to fulfil their briefs, including Disney, Netflix, Audible, the BBC, Duolingo, Google, Penguin, Snapchat, Walkers, and many more.
Find out more about the projects created by our four groups of winners below!
Marius Nordström and Oscar Sandgvist for ‘Optimising without compromising’
Designed for the scotch whisky brand ‘Chivas Regal’, the team created a unique modular whisky bottle range, built around their concept of breaking out of the moulds created by society.
Check out their campaign on the D&AD website
Zain Ilyas and Calvin Kasule for ‘The Confession’
The team created an interactive website, titled ‘The Confession’, which pays homage to the soul musician Bobby Womack.
It was designed for a joint brief from the web design software ‘Editor X’ and record company ‘XL Recordings’.
Ivan Donadio, Jood Alasfoor and Taohid Miah for ‘Stories to Reflect On’
The team created a series of installations to celebrate Netflix’s non-English shows.
Audiences sometimes struggle to relate to non-English language shows, so they created a series of mirror installations.
These featured quotes from the shows' characters and contextualised them with similar statistics and facts from the UK.
Petter Ogren and Adam Thornell Bergvall for ‘BBCEEDS, the brand that grows with you’
The team created a brand called ‘BBCEEDS’, an educational environment that enables children to take control and create their own world.
As they populate the world with things they like, the world creates new learning opportunities tailored to their interests.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-creative-capital-society-wins-student-tv-awards:
The 'Creative Capital' society at Ravensbourne has had an incredible first year, taking home three prizes at the National Student Television Association (NaSTA) Awards.
Creative Capital is a fully student-led content creation society at Ravensbourne, launched in October 2021, which produces live shows, podcasts, game shows, and entertainment.
The NaSTA Awards are the most prestigious and longest-running student TV awards in the UK, covering 20 categories recognising all aspects of TV production, both in front of and behind the camera.
Although still in its first year of operations, Creative Capital is off to a flying start, fending off stiff competition to win three prizes at the awards: one gold, one silver, and one bronze.
The team took home the top award of gold in the ‘Title Sequence’ category for ‘Rum Reception’, a current affairs show in which the hosts discuss recent events with participation from a live audience.
The title sequence was created by Hayden Kracke and Kristy Robinson.
One of the station’s presenters, Harry Lorrell, picked up the silver award in the ‘On-Screen Talent’ category.
The society also picked up bronze for the ‘Mars Elkins El-Brogy Award for Multimedia Content’ award for their ‘Men Don’t Cry’ podcast, hosted by Charlie Towner and Louis Morel, which discusses and tackles the stigma of men’s mental health.
A total of 16 members of the Ravensbourne society attended the ceremony, which was hosted at the University of York from Friday 1 to Sunday 3 April 2022.
Joey Houldsworth, channel director for Creative Capital and a third-year BA (Hons) Digital Television Production student, said: “I honestly couldn’t believe Creative Capital would have come this far at such a young age for a channel.
I am astonished by the amount of creativity and passion that pours from every member of CC in making the shows they want to make.
“It’s an honour to work and learn with every single person and honestly Creative Capital would be nothing if it weren’t for every single student that’s just come and given it a go and ultimately made a difference to the student voice at Ravensbourne.”
Title Sequence - GOLD - Hayden Kracke & Kristy Robinson (Rum Reception)
Hayden and Kristy said: “We are both so delighted to have received gold for best title sequence, it came as a huge shock to us as our names weren’t even read out for the nominations!
But we couldn’t have done it without everyone at Creative Capital, and the hard word that everyone has put into the society!”
On-Screen Talent - SILVER - Harry Lorrell
Harry said: “The feeling of winning a NaSTA is one I’ve never had before.
In that moment, it was absolutely amazing and something I can’t wait to experience again!
Being part of Creative Capital has been so much fun, it really has felt like being part of our own TV family!
“I’d like to thank the whole Creative Capital team and my mum for watching the entire show!
I’m bringing the silver home, mum!”
Mars-Elkin-El-Brogy Award for Multimedia Content - BRONZE - Charlie Towner & Louis Morel (Men Don’t Cry)
Charlie and Louis said: “It was such a privilege to receive recognition for our work this year.
Creative capital have given us the opportunity to talk and raise awareness on men’s mental health and we couldn’t be more thankful.
"We’d like to give a big thanks to our families, Nicola, Hugo, Molly, Charlie, George, Arthur, Liz, and Charlie’s amazing Nanny Tractor.
We’d also like to thank our partners, Maisie and Lara for their continued support.
"Big up Lia, our amazing producer, Andre, our great director, Joey, Jack, Hayden and anyone else who has helped create the show.
Finally, thank you Steve Towner, this podcast is solely dedicated to your memory, may you rest in peace.”
Check out Creative Capital's work on their website
Interested in television production?
Find out more about our TV and film degrees .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/alumni/ravensbourne-graduate-designs-outfits-bridgerton-brothers:
Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Fashion graduate Ifeanyi Okwuadi has designed outfits for the actors who portray Benedict and Colin Bridgerton as part of an official collaboration between Netflix and the British Fashion Council (BFC).
Netflix’s ‘ Bridgerton ’ series has taken the world by storm, scandalising and delighting viewers in equal measure.
It is one of the global streaming giant's most successful shows of all time.
Netflix has collaborated with the BFC to create a special collection to celebrate the recent launch of the hit show’s second season.
Ifeanyi was one of three up-and-coming designers selected to create regency era-inspired looks for members of its cast.
Ifeanyi’s bespoke designs were worn by Luke Thompson and Luke Newton, who may be better known to viewers as the second and third sons of the Bridgerton family, Benedict and Colin, respectively.
To create the the distinctive patterns of the fabric, he used a process known as cyanotype, a technique that was popular during the real regency period.
Motifs relevant to the brothers’ storylines were incorporated into the designs.
Thompson’s morning coat features figure models to represent his character Benedict’s penchant for art, while Newton’s jacket incorporates a sailboat in a nod to Colin’s love for travel.
Ifeanyi, alongside Latifa Neyazi and Jeongmin Ji, was mentored by fashion designer Jenny Packham to create the fabulous outfits.
The other designers created eye-catching looks for cast members Adjoa Andoh (Lady Danbury), Charithra Chandran (Edwina Sharma), Golda Rusheuvel (Queen Charlotte), and Ruth Gemmell (Lady Violet Bridgerton).
Bridgerton became quite the sensation when it first graced our screens in 2020, going on to become the most-watched Netflix original show ever at the time.
The sequel has set society’s tongue wagging once again, smashing weekly viewing records for an English-language TV series on the platform.
Ifeanyi’s latest success comes after he won the top prize at the influential Hyères Fashion Festival last year.
Judges led by Louise Trotter, the creative director of Lacoste, were won over by Ifeanyi’s menswear collection, which was inspired by the Greenham Common Women’s Peace Camp.
Ifeanyi has certainly established himself as one to watch with his impressive accomplishments to date.
This author will be following his future career with great interest!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/commercial/design-student-creates-kopparbergs-first-ever-limited-edition:
Kopparberg ’s hugely popular flavoured ciders will get their first ever limited-edition makeover this summer, using designs created by Ben McKay, a second-year Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student.
Ben’s street art-inspired designs will be featured on Kopparberg’s three most popular flavoured ciders, ‘Strawberry and Lime’, ‘Mixed Fruit’, and ‘Pear’.
Drawing on his experiences using spray paint, they feature a bold neon interpretation of the titular fruit flavours.
The eye-catching limited-edition bottles will hit supermarket shelves and be available in pubs, bars and restaurants UK-wide from Thursday 7 April 2022.
The competition ties into Kopparberg’s latest campaign, ‘To Firsts That Last’, which celebrates ‘first times’ that make a lasting impact.
In line with the theme, Ben’s winning designs mark the first time that the brand has changed its packaging since its inception.
This is an incredible start to Ben’s career – millions of bottles of Kopparberg are sold each year in the UK.
In addition to having his designs used by the famous brand, Ben also wins a six-month internship at the award-winning design agency ‘ Neverland ’ and will have his final year of tuition funded by Kopparberg.
Best known for its range of iconic flavoured ciders, Kopparberg was founded in Sweden in the 1880s, in a town called Kopparberg.
The brand swiftly became a UK favourite after it launched on our shores in the early 2000s.
Collaborations with industry are integral to Ravensbourne, and this competition is the result of our close collaboration with the drinks' brand.
The competition was exclusively open to our students, available to those from across all our creative courses, including BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design , BA (Hons) Graphic Design , and BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication .
Speaking about his win, Ben said: “When responding to the brief, I turned to street art and pattern styles I was familiar with for inspiration.
Using stencil art, spray can style and riso print, I aimed to create a free-flowing artistic style with a contemporary look, which reflects how I view the world of Kopparberg.
“I’m incredibly excited to have been chosen for this opportunity and can’t wait to see my own designs on Kopparberg’s core range – it’s something that will stay with me forever.”
Derek Yates, Ravensbourne's Advertising and Brand Design course leader, said: “This project is a great example of how we like to work at Ravensbourne.
We see professional organisations and our alumni as valuable partners in enhancing what students learn on their degree.
"This project started with a connection formed by one of our alumni, Joe Spriggs, and through him we were able to work with ‘Here Be Dragons’ to create an amazing opportunity for our second year students.
I’m so happy for Ben, his commitment to the course is amazing and this is a very fitting reward for all of his hard work.”
Rob Salvesen, head of marketing at Kopparberg said, “At Kopparberg, we’re all about celebrating firsts that last.
Offering Ben the chance to redesign our core range bottles, a first for the brand since it launched, does just that.
“We are very proud to be able to give independent talent a platform to show off their creativity and help set up what we hope will be a long and successful career for Ben through our internship and bursary.
We are also looking forward to doing the same for our second-year winner – check out our social channels for more information on how to enter.”
Off the back of the competition’s success, the brand is planning to hold it again, this time open to a wider range of contestants.
The submission phase for next year’s design is expected to run from April to August this year.
See our BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course page for more information and other success stories.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/alumni/product-design-graduate-competes-tv-design-programme:
Ravensbourne’s high-flying BA (Hons) Product Design graduate Calum Gambrill is making waves on the Sky Arts television programme ‘The Big Design Challenge’, which assembles the nation’s most talented designers to compete for a grand prize.
Calum, who graduated in 2021, is the youngest of eight participants on the show, which is sponsored by Lexus and also available on streaming platform NowTV.
No stranger to the limelight, Calum is an award-winning product and industrial designer who earned a number of impressive nominations and award wins even while he was still a student.
He won the Ford Design Award at the New Designers Awards for his concept of an autonomous taxi.
He was also shortlisted by industry experts for the prestigious Global Design Awards , for the POPAI Student Design Award , and for a Royal College of Art Award .
His latest venture, ‘The Big Design Challenge’ follows the eight designers as they face off to be crowned Britain’s next top designer.
Over four rounds, they compete as two teams of four, after which two finalists are decided.
The finalists then battle it out for the title in the final challenge, which takes place in the V&A Museum, where the winner’s work is currently being exhibited.
The show is presented by DJ and presenter Lauren Laverne and overseen week-by-week by two expert judges: artist and designer Morag Myerscough and industrial designer Tej Chauhan.
A rotating panel of guest judges are also added to the mix, including Konnie Huq, Lemn Sissay, Mourad Mazouz, Maggie Aderin-Pocock, and music duo Orbital.
We spoke to Calum about what the experience has been like.
It was a fun experience getting to work on a variety of briefs for guest judges, whilst having the rare opportunity to once again be open to play and experiment in a workshop – even if it was only for two days per brief!
It was also great to work with an array of other designers of different ages and backgrounds, witnessing their processes and unique perspectives.
As the youngest designer on the show, I really wanted to be a ‘sponge’ and absorb as much I could from my time there.
On the other hand, as some designers were more experienced, they had a habit doing things their own way, which led to some clashes and classic TV drama here and there – but we all got along with each other by the end of the programme.
I think it’s also important to note that with almost everything you see on TV, it’s not representative of the real thing.
‘The Big Design Challenge’ distils the essence and process of designing into five hour-long episodes.
We only had two days to research, conceptualise and make our products, with very little margin for error whilst under the lens of a camera.
Pressure was high and time was very limited, but I hope we got to demonstrate some of the creativity that goes on when tackling the briefs.
I was actually DMed on LinkedIn by the production company, asking if I would be interested in taking part.
I was about to start an internship at ‘Studio Exception’ at the time, but after making sure there was no major crossover, I jumped on the opportunity.
From there I sent over my portfolio, sat for an interview, and soon enough I was in front of a lovely production crew.
Being on TV was not something I had previously considered, but I thought it could be fun to explore that side of things and grant a new insight into how things work and feed my curiosity, which as a designer should always be the priority!
Meeting and working with other designers was also a networking opportunity, which is just as important as having a strong portfolio.
My favourite project that I worked on was in episode three: a light inspired by the interior of the popular 3-star Michelin London restaurant ‘Sketch’.
The design and manufacture of my team's product was a really fun (and wacky) process, and by far the most interesting time I had on the show.
Honestly, I'm pretty astounded with some of the things we were able to make within a single weekend!
It was a nice variety of things to work on, ranging from design classics like chairs to more abstract briefs, such as reinventing the clock.
Given my face on the show at times, I think it's pretty obvious that not all of the designs were to my taste (even the ones I liked!), with my design philosophy being the more understated 'less is more'.
But design is subjective, and many of the episodes finish with unexpected results.
Plus, it was fun to just mess around and create without many restrictions.
Since finishing up my degree at Rave, I’ve essentially moved from job to job to job, beginning with a start-up internship, then filming ‘The Big Design Challenge’, and then working with one of the designers I met on the show, Hyunhee, at her own studio ‘Extra&Ordinary Design’ for a short while.
Right now, I’m remaking my portfolio, but I am taking things a bit slower; I’m aiming to work one more internship before joining a studio as a junior designer.
But for now, I think I’d just like to enjoy the spring weather… and play Elden Ring!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/alumni/ravensbourne-graduates-film-nominated-bafta:
A documentary edited by a Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production graduate is in the running to win a BAFTA, while two other documentaries edited by Ravensbourne graduates were longlisted in the 2022 awards.
Tim Beeston, who graduated in 2014, was the editor for ‘ Keyboard Fantasies ’, one of five films nominated in the ‘Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer’ category.
A winner will be announced at the BAFTA awards ceremony on Sunday 13 March 2022.
Two films edited by our Editing and Post Production graduates were also among 15 films longlisted in the BAFTA’s ‘Documentary’ category.
These were Netflix's ‘ 14 Peaks: Nothing is Impossible ’, edited by Ian Grech, and ‘ The Real Charlie Chaplin ’, edited by Julian Quantrill.
‘Keyboard Fantasies’ is part biopic, part tour documentary, and explores the philosophies and story of inspirational transgender musician Glenn Copeland.
In 1986, when he was known as Beverly Glenn-Copeland, he recorded and released a seven-track cassette tape called ‘Keyboard Fantasies’, featuring a unique blend of folk and electronica music.
Through a twist of fate, his music attracted a cult following three decades later, and Glenn, now 74, started to receive emails from new fans from across the world – most of whom were two generations younger than him.
The film was edited by Tim, directed by Posy Dixon, and produced by Liv Proctor.
“So far, this is my proudest achievement,” Tim told us.
“'Keyboard Fantasies' is an incredibly personal film to me that became a passion project, with many sleepless nights and coffee-enhanced weekends to get it over the finish line.
“I never took a moment to consider where the film could end up whilst I was cutting it – so now that it’s been in cinemas and has won multiple awards, I can’t quite believe it.
Going to the BAFTAs will be an incredible way to celebrate a beautiful film.
“In my opinion, feature length documentaries are the most intimidating projects to edit.
With no script or storyboard, you are taking vast amounts of media and weaving a coherent narrative that keeps the audience engaged for a long period of time.
“There needs to be a close relationship between the director and the editor in order for the film to sing, and on this project, Posy and I spent hundreds of hours together re-cutting and re-cutting and re-cutting.
“It’s a long and complicated process that has resulted in something we are both incredibly proud of.”
Tim has also recently finished work on feature documentary called 'Medicine Man: The Stan Brock Story’ , which tells the incredible life story of a British-born Amazonian cowboy and former US TV star.
He added: “I can honestly say a week doesn’t go by where the course I did at Ravensbourne doesn’t impact my career.
From technical understanding to storytelling, it set me off on the right track from day one and I don’t think I would be where I am now without the knowledge that [my lecturers] Caroline, Greg and Richard gave me.”
You can find out more about Tim’s work on his website at tim-beeston.com

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/our-experts/what-time-management-means-when-youre-working-academic-mum:
Naureen Farhan, Course Leader in MSc Information Technology Management at Ravensbourne University London, recently had a piece published in SheCanCode about what time management looks like as a working academic mum.
You can find this article below.
My mornings begin in the stillness before dawn — grounded in prayer and accompanied by a warm cup of tea or coffee.
These quiet moments are essential; they offer clarity before the chaos begins.
Not long after, the rhythm of the day quickens.
I move swiftly into preparing school lunches, often while checking and responding to emails or messages left unread from the night before.
It’s a multitasking ritual that sets the tone for what’s ahead.
Then, it’s go-time.
Whether I’m commuting to campus or working remotely, the rest of the day is a delicate balancing act: preparing lectures, attending meetings, handling administrative duties, and meeting fast-approaching research deadlines.
It’s a full schedule that demands mental agility and emotional endurance.
Throughout my doctorate journey, and in my full-time academic role in higher education, I’ve learned — sometimes the hard way — that time management is far from a neat science.
Add household responsibilities and, over time, one child, then two, it becomes a constantly evolving practice.
Believe me, it’s a messy art of resilience, prioritisation, and keeping up with perfection.
There’s something unexpectedly energising about having a list of goals to reach, ticking them off, and then immediately setting your sights on the next.
That forward momentum keeps me motivated, even when I’m running on very little sleep.
We are often expected to find balance, but achieving it is quite hard — especially when you’re passionate about progressing in your career and equally committed to being fully present for your children and family.
The day might start with a lecture or a student meeting, continue through writing, then end with dinner and homework help.
More often than not, once the kids are asleep, I’m back at my desk, trying to meet a research deadline or finishing up an idea before it slips away.
Yet despite the challenges, this lifestyle has positive upsides.
It keeps me mentally agile and motivated.
I always have a reason to push forward, both professionally and personally.
Being a mum in academia means I’m constantly reflecting on how to be better: a better lecturer, a better researcher, and a more present, supportive parent.
It also gives me a unique perspective.
Working closely with students every day gives us insight into the emotional and academic challenges young people face, helping us anticipate and support our own children in a more informed and compassionate way.
Over time, I’ve redefined what success looks like.
For me, it’s not just about climbing the academic ladder or publishing that next paper — it’s about also showing up for bedtime stories and school assemblies.
Time management, in this context, isn’t about perfection.
It’s about persistence.
Adapting, adjusting, and showing up — again and again, with intention, care, and a quiet belief that you’re doing your best on all fronts.
You can read the full article on the SheCanCode website by clicking on this link .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-chloe-berry:
In this instalment of Built for Industry , we caught up with Chloe Berry, a student who demonstrated an appetite for excellence and outstanding creative instincts during a residency with Uncommon Creative Studios.
Having been tasked with breathing new life into a forgotten, yet vital, aspect of British cultural and visual identity, Chloe’s team tackled sexualisation of girls in the British schooling system.
With the hugely successful residency under her belt, Chloe reflects on her educational and creative journey, as well as how she hopes to use the unique industry learnings she garnered going forward.
Tell us a bit about your life and educational history before university, including what made you think Ravensbourne was the right place for you?
I have always been creative; attracted to the therapeutic process of making, I need to use my emotions to fuel creative ideas as a form of escapism.
I had un-diagnosed ADHD till I was around 17 which explained the constant techno rave in my brain, filled with concepts and inspiration.
Literally every school report card called me a ‘daydreamer’ and a ‘chatterbox’.
I would say school failed me.
I was strongly against A-levels, instead, taking my creativity and hunger for knowledge to Harlow College to study Journalism and Creative Writing.
I experimented a lot with scriptwriting and poetry at this time, and realised my true passion was storytelling, no matter the format.
This carved the path to Ravensbourne to study Advertising and Brand Design.
How did you get involved in the Uncommon residency and what are some of your reflections from the selection process?
As part of my Work Based Learning module, I needed to complete a compulsory, accredited four-week work placement and when I saw Uncommon was an option, I lost my mind.
I had loved Uncommon’s work since seeing their JD “Bag for Life” campaign.
I do struggle with the occasional spot of self-doubt, probably due to how dumb school made me feel, so when my portfolio was chosen for a selection day, I got literal whiplash.
The selection day was like a fever dream.
We were assigned a live brief to work on where I threw caution to the wind and decided that now wasn’t the time to water myself down.
I went for it.
Creating a punk, women’s, self-defence, streetwear brand.
The main motif?
Massive pink leather spikes that would take over London in spaces women may feel unsafe as a symbol of rebellion.
It was voted Uncommon’s favourite, which was a massive honour and proof I should always trust my gut.
It meant I was chosen for the residency.”
Chloe Berry , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student at Ravensbourne University London
What was the inspiration behind your group’s Uncommon residency project?
For mine and my partner’s answer to the brief, I tried to keep the selection day energy throughout.
Our final idea was born as a kind of conjoined twin of both mine and my partner’s initial starting points presented on day one.
I am a proud member of the working class, so I centred around that, and my partner is interested in punk, sexuality, and kink.
We jumped many hurdles to get to our outcome, using Netflix’s Adolescence as inspiration.
We wanted to be outrageous while drawing attention to the absurdity of the language used in British state schools surrounding the abhorrent sexualisation of young girls.
No thirteen-year-old girl should be called a ‘sket’ in the playground.
We created a modified school-uniform, ideally in collaboration with Katerina Kamprani, that shows the physicality of internal hurt.
We created The Sket Skirt, The Tart Tie and The Frigid Bitch Blazer, all either way too heavy, way too long, spiky, boiling hot, or lined with sandpaper.
Our copy line to tie it all together: ‘The Weight Of The Word Is To Wear It’.
What were some of the key insights from Uncommon staff and/or your instructors at Ravensbourne which helped you along the way?
The treasure trove of knowledge I received from this experience weighs a ton and is now locked away in my brain forever.
Some key golden nuggets are: to use your own experiences in your work; somethings are just innate, don’t make anything that will be fleeting; embed your work into the culture; make things that don’t look like advertising; if you know the wackiest idea is the best, don’t be afraid to push for it; you will have to push clients to be brave; and, although it’s scary, if there’s nothing like your work out there, one day you’ll have copycats.
I was also endlessly inspired by Stephen Lacey’s talk on cultural trends and current affairs as timing is everything for your work to get people talking.
How important do you think industry collaborations like this are for students aspiring to enter the creative, tech and business sectors?
The incubator at Uncommon was a definite crash-course, some days entirely blew my mind.
Ravensbourne is far from traditional and so is Uncommon.
The collaboration was a match made in heaven for a range of reasons and the experience just felt right.
I would say this experience re-wired my creative brain.
Now when I create, I create with the confidence that the world needs my work.”
This is the confidence that early contact with the industry gives you.
I also no longer think of my work as hypothetical.
I see every project as an audition for my place in the industry which has given me a stronger vigour than I had before.
These opportunities are mindset switchers, and exposers of dreams.
It allows students to get to the core of what they really want from their future, what parts of the industry are made for them and what they most care about.
This clarity is vital and so is the wisdom from creatives ahead of you.
They’re not gods, they’re you in a few years.
How do you hope to apply your learnings from the residency throughout the remainder of your studies and when you enter the world of work?
I have had a distinct style bubbling under my creative skin which the Uncommon residency has helped to bring to the surface.
I will take the conviction of knowing myself creatively into my future for sure.
I have been corporatising my work and watering down my ideas but Uncommon has taught me that my fully rich wackiness is needed and there is nothing wrong with creating the work you wish already existed.
I learnt that advertising is at a near-apocalypse and the industry is at a point metamorphosis where it can become something new.
People are starting to hate its traditional format, paying to not see it.
The rise of AI is also something we can re-frame to be exciting.
Now is the time to show people what advertising can be and what real people can make when they aren’t held back.
I will be using all I have learnt to run into this battlefield, guns blazing, and contribute alternative work with purpose.
Thank you to Uncommon for all you have taught me.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/our-experts/shaping-future-fashion-empowering-next-generation-sustainable:
At Ravensbourne, we believe the future of fashion lies with the next generation of designers, thinkers, and innovators.
That’s why we place sustainability, industry collaboration, and cutting-edge technology at the heart of everything we do.
I’m proud to say our students are leading the way, with recent events proving they’re not only part of the conversation, but they’re also driving it.
Just recently, our fashion students unveiled their final-year collections in an event that turned heads and showed why we’re one of the only undergraduate fashion programmes to make a change.
We’ve built dynamic fashion courses that evolves with industry, ensuring our students are always ahead of the curve.
From design and textiles to marketing, production, and entrepreneurship, our students gain a comprehensive understanding of the entire fashion ecosystem.
With industry partnerships spanning Ralph Lauren, Louis Vuitton, and Harris Tweed, they’re connecting their studies with real-world insights that set them up for success.
It’s not just about getting students to their first job; it’s about equipping them to lead our future industries with purpose and responsibility.
We’ve woven sustainability into every aspect of our curriculum, helping undergraduates explore new materials, rethink production methods, and drive change in supply chains.
Through initiatives like Ravensbourne’s Denim Innovation event, where students get to work with industry experts to tackle the challenges of sustainable denim production, we offer hands-on learning to bridge the gap between academia and industry.
These experiences are where creativity meets practicality — and our students are ready to make an impact.
At Ravensbourne, our courses offer students the opportunity to collaborate with industry professionals, equipping them with the skills and confidence to pursue their chosen careers.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-danielle-coombs:
For our next edition of Built for Industry , we spoke to strategist, communicator and Associate Professor at Ravensbourne University London, Dr Danielle Coombs .
Danielle’s areas of expertise centre on understanding people and audiences, with specific focus on sport, politics, society and fandom.
As well as her Consumer Insights textbook, she has also had recent publications regarding the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup and the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris.
We caught up with Danielle shortly after she returned from the illustrious McGarr Symposium at the University of Texas at Austin.
Tell me a little bit about your academic and professional life up until joining Ravensbourne.
I grew up in Ohio in the US, so at my core, I’ve always been an Ohio girl.
I started out going to university there and decided I was interested in understanding people and audiences.
I got my degree in Television Production and went to Louisiana State University for my doctorate.
While I was there, I realised I needed professional experience.
I left when I was ABD – ‘all but dissertation’ – and took a job in New Jersey as Director of Election Research for the company that rebuilt exit polling after the 2000 election.
Then I took a job in New York City to work at Insight Research Group, where we did consumer insights and brand consulting.
That was where I realised how creative research is.
After finishing my doctorate, I got really into the World Cup.
I’d gone from traveling all the time to having free time and, when the World Cup ended, I wanted to keep that going.
The owner of my NFL team, the Cleveland Browns, had just purchased Aston Villa, and it had been a really successful purchase, unlike the purchases of Liverpool and Manchester United by Americans.
A super fan put me in touch with Charles Krulak, a non-executive director who was friends with [Villa owner] Randy Lerner.
Chuck gave me open access to the club.
My earliest academic research focused on foreign ownership and fandom in the Premier League.
Eventually, I got married and had two kids and couldn’t keep coming over [to England], so the work shifted toward the NFL.
That led to a re-theorisation of fandom – what I call ‘performative sport fandom’ – focused on gender and how women experience hypermasculine environments.
That set the trajectory: a lot of what I’ve done since has been related to sports, politics, and the politics of sport.
If you had to point to one experience that shaped your work the most?
In that job in New York, people were making multi-million-dollar decisions based on our recommendations, so I had to harness my thinking effectively.
I learned to lean into my strengths and stop trying to do everything, instead recognising what I’m good at.
As an academic, I realised everything I do should have a purpose and make life better for someone or help understand an industry.
There’s a lot of criticism that sports research isn’t ‘real’ research and that we’re ‘playing in the sandbox’.
But sport brings joy, builds community and networks.
Talking about Villa and football gives me access to conversations I wouldn’t otherwise have.
Fan communities are essential to who we are, and they’re multi-billion-dollar businesses.
We need to take them seriously.
Dr Danielle Coombs , Associate Professor at Ravensbourne University London
Academia often separates high- and low-brow.
Take Taylor Swift; she’s maligned, as if being a ‘Swiftie’ is a dismissive thing.
But Taylor Swift is a machine.
She’s built a community which is no joke.
The Eras tour was incredible and yet it’s not taken seriously because it’s girls and women.
I feel like the research I’m doing matters as a cultural artifact.
How do you push back against the idea that fandom or pop culture is less legitimate?
With athlete activists like LeBron James and Colin Kaepernick, who have been at the forefront of the fourth wave of athlete activism and social justice, people more readily see that work as legitimate.
With fandom, it’s harder, because fandom of popular things is often looked down on.
I make the case by highlighting the financial and cultural impact.
Once I explain or argue it, people usually get it.
What was it about Ravensbourne that attracted you?
We came on a Saturday just to see the university.
I walked out of the North Greenwich tube station on this glorious day, and the Ravensbourne building was right there.
I thought, “I want to work here!” The vibes were immaculate.
The more I looked, the more I liked it.
I love what’s happening here.
It’s not just about the traditional academia.
It’s about impact on communities, and that’s such an important philosophy.
It’s part of why Ravensbourne is doing well; it’s in a unique position.
I’ve always worked at the intersection of business, creativity and technology, and that’s exactly how Ravensbourne is positioned.
We’re going through terrifying and thrilling times with AI, machine learning, and huge societal shifts.
Ravensbourne is well placed to think about what that will mean and how we can approach it thoughtfully.
Dr Danielle Coombs , Associate Professor, Ravensbourne University London
How did media narratives shift from the Women’s World Cup in 2023 to the Paris Olympics in 2024?
There’s been a growing realisation that ‘if you build it, they will come.’ There’s always this idea that no one wants to watch women’s sports, but when you show it, people watch.
When you invest, people want to see it.
We’ve seen massive attendances and global audiences for women’s sports.
And with that recognition, we’ve seen changes in commentary.
At the Olympics, for example, you hear more about the quality of the athletes, more attention to research into female physiology, and less focus on who their husbands or coaches are.
There’s more overall recognition of women as elite athletes.
How damaging was what happened to Jenni Hermoso?
It was incredibly important because it revealed systemic problems within the Spanish REF.
Even fans of the women’s game didn’t realise how bad things were.
These women had just won the World Cup, and yet the story became about whether or not a non-consensual kiss from someone who had disrespected her and her teammates for years was ‘a big deal.’
It took women football players wearing armbands, the “Se acabó” movement for Jenni, to reinforce that we are on her side.
She is the victim here, not him.
The sustained media scrutiny put a critical lens on the Spanish federation.
That was significant.
What about the case of Imane Khelif at the Paris Olympics?
Anyone who has a basic understanding of biology that goes beyond the simple matrix we are taught, at least in American schools, about how it works will know weird stuff happens with chromosomes.
People are shaped differently and they have different things.
My frustration is you look at Michael Phelps and part of the reason he was so extraordinary was because he was a genetic freak.
He had massive hands, massive limbs, his physiology was what made him excellent.
Should he not be allowed to participate?
No one’s making that case.
Khelif’s body serves her in this really powerful way to excel in the sport that she has chosen to do.
The good thing is that you have a lot of athletes, especially cis women like Dawn Staley, speaking up about trans athletes and saying “just let them play.” There are ten trans athletes among thousands in US university sports.
And yet places like Ohio passed legislation because of three trans girls .
All the data shows how vital sport is for community and belonging.
It’s devastating that disingenuous actors hijack these conversations.
Khelif was excellent at her sport and I’m glad the world rallied around her, but it’s devastating and unfair that her story became about her biology versus her excellence.
How do you deal with those persistent bad-faith narratives, even when they’re easily disproven?
That’s one of the greatest challenges of our time.
Since Trump’s election, people talk about the ‘post-truth’ society.
And as AI and deepfakes get better, it’s harder to know what’s real.
That’s why places like Ravensbourne matter; to help understand the ethics, responsibility, and regulation around technology.
Tech has outpaced government regulation, and we’re at a crisis point.
My hope is that we can develop tech-based solutions to these problems.
We need STEM to be more connected to ethics and social impact.
That business-creativity-tech nexus is exactly what Ravensbourne is built for.
What were your takeaways from the McGarr Symposium in Texas, and how do they influence your teaching?
Texas is one of the states actively trying to ban DEI discussions, so I talked about DEI right away, because that’s what global sport is.
In my classes, my students come from different backgrounds, but we find common ground through shared passions like sports and music.
Those shared interests help us build connections.
One thing I took from the symposium was to keep encouraging students to explore cultural impacts, the inherent politics of sport, and how all of that connects to business questions.
How do you see Ravensbourne students preparing for the demands of industry?
There’s a real opportunity to explore entrepreneurship.
Many students in creativity and tech will end up freelancing or consulting.
How do we help them think entrepreneurially and see themselves as entrepreneurs?
When you think about how we persuade people, a compelling ad doesn't necessarily work in the moment because that person isn’t in the market to buy a new car.
But if you strike an emotional chord, when they’re in the market to buy a car, they remember that ad.
Something about your brand that has stuck in their brain - that's business and creativity.
And then you use technological tools to make things happen.
One will certainly be more foregrounded than the other at different points but the best business happens when you integrate creativity and technology.
What upcoming projects are you most excited about?
Fandom will always be close to my heart.
Being near the O2, I get to see fan communities up close.
People leave work and head to concerts in themed outfits; it’s performance, it’s community.
I’m really interested in how those performances of fandom play out across music, sport, and merchandising.
I’m interested in that fan performance and particularly how that connects to things like merchandising and how have they done more to create merch that is women centred in in more meaningful ways?
Danielle’s reflections are further evidence of the critical importance of operating at the intersection of creativity, technology and business as per the University’s 2030 corporate strategy .
Thanks to Ravensbourne’s rich pool of talent in student body and faculty alike, the University is uniquely poised to capitalise on each of the three disciplines.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-launchpad-ravensbourne-university-london:
On this edition of Built for Industry , we take a deep dive into LaunchPad: a weeklong careers initiative run by Ravensbourne University London, designed to provide final-year and postgraduate students with a vital platform for learning, networking and upskilling.
Aimed at bridging the gap between academic study and entering the workforce in a creative, technological or business discipline, LaunchPad involved a variety of inspiring guest talks, illuminating panel discussions and practical workshops.
LaunchPad’s 2025 mission – to inspire, equip and connect – was delivered upon in abundance, with professionals from leading organisations seizing the opportunity to learn with 150 students from Ravensbourne’s coveted pool of fresh talent.
Sessions from the University’s target sectors included a careers Q&A with Samantha Hornsby, co-founder of ERIC , a personal branding workshop delivered by Alicia Richardson, founder of Create Connect , and a start-up masterclass from the Rebel Business School .
These sessions were supplemented by further opportunities for connection and collaboration between students and industry, with careers fairs devoted to Creative and Media as well as Business and Technology.
‘This session has been life-changing for me’
Ravensbourne’s students’ reflections on LaunchPad were telling, praising the industry-standard guidance and keen sector insights.
When asked about the personal branding workshop, one student remarked: “This session has been life-changing for me”.
Another, who attended the Rebel Business School’s workshop, labelled it “an incredible and inspiring talk”.
The Creative and Media careers fair opened avenues for further dialogue between students and industry, with one participant saying it had “left a lasting impact” and that it was “truly helpful and meaningful”.
The same was true of the Business and Technology careers fair, as students lauded the impact of the delegates who “helped advise on how to find jobs and prepare for interviews”.
Events such as those ran as part of LaunchPad are a vital element of Ravensbourne’s commitment to producing industry-ready graduates.
By connecting the student body with leaders of the creative, technology and business sectors, the University is further facilitating the ongoing dialogue between academia and industry.
LaunchPad was organised and delivered by Careers Lab at Ravensbourne.
You can find out more about them via their dedicated webpage .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/our-experts/student-film-festivals-eiuff-university-higher-education:
I recently acted as a judge at the Edinburgh International University Film Festival (EIUFF).
Following that experience, I’m even more convinced that student film festivals are about much more than just showcasing talent.
As someone who works closely with students in the creative industries, I know how important these events are in bridging the gap between education and the industry.
In a country home to more than 280 recognised film festivals, the arrival of another may not turn heads.
The EIUFF, however, is different.
It’s run by students, for students, and crucially, with student budgets in mind.
It did far more than hand out awards — it provided real opportunities for networking, workshopping, and engaging in professional dialogues.
These are experiences that many students would otherwise miss out on, and they’re invaluable for those looking to break into the industry.
At a time where the UK Government has identified the creative sectors as a key driver of economic growth, film festivals like the EIUFF offer a timely reminder of the sheer influence they (and those that host them) hold over the fate of our skills pipelines.
It’s fair to say the film sector is having trouble attracting talent, with up to 21,000 additional workers needed to match the sector’s growth.
But the overarching cause — lack of access — is seldom mentioned.
Even when looking to the student film festival landscape, submission guidelines can cater for budgets up to an eye-watering £100,000, creating a clear disincentive for those looking to self-fund their work on an aspirational ‘micro-budget’.
Photo credits: @facendocosephotography
In light of this, the EIUFF set a maximum budget of £5,000 for all submissions and a requirement for total student involvement, with no exceptions.
This solves a common problem by creating a more accessible space for students who are often put off applying for bigger festivals where they cannot hope to match the scale or polish of the better-funded films.
Looking at even a handful of the titans of film — Martin Scorsese, Kathryn Bigelow, Spike Lee — we see a large cohort of individuals who benefitted from a higher education in the creative sector, where exposure to industry advice and events provided formative experiences in pursuing their craft.
With social mobility back on the political agenda, it’s a good reminder for us in the creative sector that individuals and organisations hold the key to creating meaningful access to opportunity.
As a lecturer at Ravensbourne University London, I’m proud to support festivals like EIUFF.
It’s a reminder that students come to university not just for learning, but for the career opportunities that can kickstart their futures.
Events like these don’t just deserve celebration, but replication.
To find out more about the EIUFF ahead of next year's edition, visit their website .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-alexander-hill:
In this edition of Built for Industry , Ravensbourne University London film student Alexander Hill recounts his experiences of working with Academy Award-winning producer Lord David Puttnam.
Unique and longstanding industry links are a hallmark of a Ravensbourne education, meaning students have the opportunity to learn within the creative, technology and business sectors from day one.
This immersive teaching ensures that students graduate from Ravensbourne as industry-ready professionals capable of transforming and innovating in their chosen fields.
Lord Puttnam worked with Ravensbourne students over a number of sessions, which then culminated in a special evening lecture for the wider community.
Here’s what Alexander had to say about his experience:
“When I initially joined the workshop, I didn’t really know much about David Puttnam.
I had heard of some of his films, but other than that I wasn’t really familiar with his entire body of work.
I wanted to learn new things and gain experience that I otherwise wouldn’t have, getting insight from someone with a wealth of experience in the film industry.
After attending a few lectures, I found myself really enjoying it!
David has an excellent way of teaching.
He’s both detailed with the way he explains things and extremely concise, not dwelling too long on one thing.
Alexander Hill , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production student, Ravensbourne University London
"David recommended watching The Killing Fields along with a few other films and I decided to watch it so I could get a taste of some of his work, and I loved it.
It’s based on a true story; the film follows Sydney Schanberg, a New York Times journalist documenting his time in 1970s Cambodia during the Khmer Rouge regime.
I didn’t really know much about the events that it was based but I was absolutely engrossed with what I was watching!
The film really made me want to look more into the real-life events that the film was based on.
"During the project, I wanted to get some thoughts from David regarding up-and-coming filmmakers using webpages like YouTube and Vimeo to garner attention for future projects.
I asked this because it was something I was considering myself.
My idea was to create some short films as a platform to get future projects into film festivals.
I thought this would be an interesting question to ask someone like David since he’s been working in the industry for decades and has seen the practices change overtime.
His advice was that it would be good in the beginning but that I could submit a short film to a film festival by uploading the full film online, posting trailers and snippets of scenes on YouTube or Vimeo.
"While I was attending this workshop, I was also working on my Final Major Project (FMP).
This involved joining a group and planning for the creation of a short film that would be made next term.
I was the cinematographer for the project so I needed to think about how I would plan out the cinematography and shoot a key scene in our short film.
The script I was working with was The Elevator Pitch , a comedy about a man trying to pitch his film script to an executive at the company he works at.
There were a variety of issues while working on this project.
For example, I didn’t get the script until later in the module.
However, one thing I learned from my time with David Puttnam is that you need to constantly stay moving with what you’re doing.
Throughout my time working on the project, I was almost constantly trying to organise things and makes sure we were all on the same page.”
"To conclude, I very much enjoyed being a part of David’s Atticus Education project.
It’s given me a lot to reflect on and taught me a lot of new things.
Thank you so much to David and to the Ravensbourne film team for this opportunity!”
To find out more about studying Media, Film, TV or Music at Ravensbourne, you can visit our designated section of the website .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-ravensbourne-university-london-x-tate-kids:
In this edition of Built for Industry , we spoke to three of Ravensbourne’s first-year Animation students who had the opportunity to respond to a live brief for Tate Kids .
Tate Kids is an educational resource for the arts intended for audiences between the ages of four and 12.
The students were tasked with creating a short animation detailing the life of trailblazing and influential artist and fashion designer, Leigh Bowery.
As a culmination of the project, the animations were then screened at the Tate Modern’s Starr Cinema, providing an opportunity for the students to reflect on their achievements and have their work showcased on the big screen.
We caught up with Chenaé Grant, Kai Royan and Liviu-Matias Ion immediately after their animations had been screened to talk about the project, their sense of achievement and their hopes for the future.
What does it mean for you to have your work exhibited at the Tate Modern in the Starr Cinema?
Chenaé Grant: For me personally, it’s really cool to be able to see your work in front of other people and just to take it in after working on it for so long.
It's like peace of mind, really.
Kai Royan: I've spent a long time working on that project and it was really fun seeing it up there and feeling so proud about my work and the many long hours [it took] at night working.
All of it coming to something in the end was really fun.
Liviu-Matias Ion: I think it was a bit of a relief finally seeing it complete.
It was worth seeing some reactions to it and, at the same time, it's a quick moment that passes, because you work so hard on it for so long, and then it’s just like, “Wow, it's over.
It's done!”
Talk to me about some of the insights you received, whether from people at Ravensbourne, from the industry, or just technology, which helped you complete the project.
CG: Personally, it was my groupmates being reliable.
I was struggling a bit as we were doing it so it was good to have other people who I could rely on and take away certain things or change certain things to make it easier, so that was really helpful.
KR: I was struggling a bit with my group.
When I spoke to my teacher [at Ravensbourne], it really helped to try and figure out what we needed to do.
The final thing that we decided to do was to turn a three-person group into two and that helped a lot having a teacher who was understanding and really tried to figure out ways to make it easier.
LI: I found myself really thanking free software, for example, because I used it to animate.
I think it was also very nice that we managed to collaborate with Sound and Music students.
It was very helpful to have some students that actually know their stuff and basically just explain to them our ideas, and then them delivering it and exceeding our expectations.
Liviu-Matias Ion , BA (Hons) Animation student, Ravensbourne University London
What are your main points of learning from this project which you hope to integrate into your future practice?
KR: Communication.
Realising how important it is trying to figure out what people need in order to help them with the project and trying to communicate what I need so I can fulfil my role.
This project helped me to experience that before I go out into the world.
Speaking with the sound design people and getting that chance to communicate with them and, also Sophie [from the Tate] who's a professional in the industry, is kind of scary!
But being able to try that out without it having real repercussions was good to experience.”
Kai Royan , BA (Hons) Animation, Ravensbourne University London
LI: I think it's a worthwhile experience.
Leigh Bowery was very controversial, but when it comes to stuff like this, you need to put your ego at the door and just be a professional.
I think that's what this module helps with: learning to compromise, just get on with it and get the job done, because otherwise you won't handle the heat if you're in the kitchen.
It was a pleasure working with Ravensbourne students for this Tate Kids live brief and introduce them to producing animation for museums and galleries - they demonstrated creative storytelling, research skills and technical ability in their final films.”
Sophie Wakefield , Producer, Tate Digital
You can find out more about Ravensbourne's Animation degrees via our dedicated course pages .
You can also see more Tate Kids content via their YouTube channel and Instagram page .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-daniel-eatock:
For the latest instalment in our Built for Industry interview series, we caught up with artist, designer and Ravensbourne alumnus Daniel Eatock at his studio in Hackney.
Since graduating from Ravensbourne, Daniel has had work commissioned by a variety of clients across the globe, notably to design Channel 4’s Big Brother visual identity.
Having left Ravensbourne in 1993, he now returns in a different capacity: facilitating and curating a project with current students to reimagine and reframe his work.
We spoke to Daniel about his life, work, philosophy and experiences of Ravensbourne both new and old.
Tell me about yourself, your academic journey and your early life experiences that led you to Ravensbourne.
My dad was a designer and my mum was a typographer.
All through my childhood, I was encouraged to be creative, so I was doing drawings and I was always the one at school that would do the posters if there was a car boot sale or a village fete, I would always be the kid that was asked to do that.
After secondary school, I did a BTEC in Graphic Design at Wigan College.
When it came to my degree, I looked around at a lot of different universities.
I grew up in Lancashire and I wanted to come to London.
I applied [to Ravensbourne] and I got on the course.
I remember really clearly at the interview that the questions we were quite provocative, in a good way.
It just felt dead right.
The course was organised, disciplined and just felt figured out.
I immersed myself in there.
I really loved what I was doing.
Daniel Eatock , Graphic designer, artist and Ravensbourne alumnus
The first year was a lot to do with practical design lessons, but in the second year, I started to explore a more conceptual, ideas-based practice.
I started to discover my own voice as a young designer.
Then I went to the Royal College of Art (RCA), but Ravensbourne was a perfect building block for that trajectory.
It was a good mixture of practical and academic.
Once you’d graduated from your MA programme, how did you navigate getting into the industry?
It all happened organically.
When I was at college, I just trusted that if I prioritize the work and made sure that each thing was the best it could be, then that would lead to opportunities.
As I was getting close to finishing at the RCA, I had a tutor that had recently travelled to the States and visited a contemporary art museum.
It had internships and designers could work within an internal design department and he felt that my work would be really great if it was put into a real context of an art museum.
I contacted the museum, went over for an interview and then I got the place.
It felt like a continuation of education.
I did a two-year BTEC, three-year degree at Ravensbourne, two-year MA, and then a one-year internship at the Walker Art Center, and they all feel almost like they were designed to go together like a jigsaw puzzle; each one was a bit more intense, but they slot together brilliantly.
You're now established in the design industry and you've got a really clear identity in your own practice.
Which of your projects that over the years has presented the biggest challenge and which was the most gratifying?
The reason for having [my own studio ] was to take on board bigger projects that I wouldn't be able to get as an individual, but the work my studio was taking was to buy me time so I could focus on work which wasn't commissioned.
I was lucky that I've had clients that were understanding of that.
I've had Channel 4, I’ve had Canal+, I had the Serpentine Gallery.
I've had people that were accepting that the thing I was making was only half of what I do, but they knew that I was also practicing as an artist, so that's always been the challenge and still remains so.
The most satisfying thing is just keeping everything afloat, because you never have one thing on the go at the time.
There's always a mixture of things; a book, an exhibition, a commission.
To do well, I need to be in a good place, so I need to be reading, I need to be a good parent to my daughter, I like to run and climb, I like to eat healthy.
When all those things feel balanced, that's when I feel at my best.
It's just about trying to keep everything good and acknowledging when it’s good because it is good most of the time, but don’t get too hung up on the problems.
Just accept them and move forward.
And the most formative to your style?
I don't use the word ‘style’ because style suggests aiming to create something that appears a certain way.
The earliest thing that I created that feels like the origin of my practice was a drawing that I made when I was 16.
I got a piece of paper and I drew two lines across it to divide it into three equal sections.
In the top third, I wrote ‘sky’, in the middle third I wrote ‘sea’, and then the bottom I wrote ‘sand’.
It required the viewer to project their imagination of a landscape they've already seen, either as a painting or in the real world, to complete the work.
I feel as though it was so profound that I started to use that in my own mind.
Most complex problems you encounter, either design problem or a problem in the world, if you think with lateral logic, you can come up with an answer that can flip the problem upside down, or make you see that actually there's not really a problem.
That's what I'm trying to make with my work; little solutions that the world can accept and by having them, hopefully the problems just recede.
Big Brother 7 logo (Daniel Eatock, 2006)
Sky Sea Sand (Daniel Eatock, 1991)
A0 Rolling Pin painting on wood (Daniel Eatock, 2022)
MOBO billboard (Daniel Eatock, 2001)
What particular aspects of your learning at Ravensbourne did you feel were most valuable in preparing you for the MA and everything that came afterwards?
I think clarity of thoughts and removing superfluous elements and conceptual aesthetic.
Figure out what it is that you're doing and then do it accurately, on time, without any fuss.
It's like a modernist ethos.
And that still underpins everything I do today.
That's kind of the principles that I got from Ravensbourne.
I had three exceptional teachers.
Geoff White was amazing, very kind, gentle, knowledgeable.
Rupert Bassett was clear thinking, logical and provocative.
And another called Collin Maughan, who died a few years ago, who was also extremely sharp and unapologetically critical.
By instilling into us this care of presentation, it made you treat them with respect.
It was the first year [at Ravensbourne] that was the real basic foundations of graphic design that I'll never forget.
Talk about your involvement with Ravensbourne now and the series you’re running with our students.
My goal is to make a beautiful, complex reframe of what an exhibition is.
It's all my work, but made by the students.
I think it will be a really good thing for the students to be involved in.
It's like mini work experience and the projects that they'll be doing are a big mixture of things.
They're all linked to design in some way, because my practice stems from design, but they're not projects which they would normally encounter in a design course, so I feel as though they'll be getting quite a lot from it.
I don’t want to do a half-involved version of me because my whole practice is driven on honesty, truth and trying to get to the essence of something.
That can be uncomfortable and difficult, but I'm prepared to go through that discomfort because ultimately the work is better at the end of it.
Rather than me being a teacher, I'll be more like a curator or an art director.
I can present my practice to the students and then ask if they would like to volunteer and participate.
If there was anything specific you would want a student to get from the project, what do you think that would be?
I think being proactive.
The first question I asked of them is to volunteer.
If they’ve volunteered and put their name on the sheet, that's the biggest hurdle right there.
I think the workshops sessions that we’ll be having will be really fun because for a lot of the invitations of the work, there can't really be a bad version of it because it's they're working to quite a strict set of principles that will just lead to a good outcome.
I'm hoping that it illustrates to them that if there's an idea and you follow through on that idea, the outcome is good, because the idea is good.
Are there any kind of either ongoing or upcoming projects that you are finding particularly exciting?
The paints that I use are made by Windsor Newton and they want me to make work that they can use to promote this paint.
It feels really lovely because I work with their products in an unusual way, not like most painters would work with it.
And for them to see that work and reach out, it feels brilliant.
The collaboration with Ravensbourne, that's another thing.
This is like part-curating, teaching, art directing, but there'll be an exhibition in May so that'll be a nice process to go through to get to this outcome.
I've also been invited to make some paintings for a hospital opposite Euston train station.
There's a room that is used for people who have relatives who might be dying or injured where they can contemplate what’s going to happen next, so it’s quite a heavy space.
That's really special because I don't make work thinking of the audience, but I want an audience for the work, because without it, there is no work.
So [to make] paintings thinking that they can play a role in that environment to soothe or help someone, it just feels really a rich place to be making work for.
Are there any trends, technologies or ideas that are just coming through that you think will be prominent in the industry going forward?
Things progress at such a big rate that five years ago, AI was not in the conversation, whereas now it's the hot topic.
AI could probably write a better essay than one 18-year-old could, because it's got more access to more information.
But what it won't have is the feelings or the insights an 18-year-old could have if they gave their own opinion of what's going on.
AI can't do that so it almost forces us to be more poetic and inward looking and understand ourselves, because that will be the point of difference .
Styles change and technology evolves.
You could become obsolete overnight, whereas if you understand the basic fundamentals of being human, that will be appropriate forever.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-anna-eerdmans:
The next instalment in our new Built for Industry series follows current Ravensbourne student, Anna Eerdmans, in her journey from working in banks across the world to winning the 2024 PORADA International Award for Students.
We caught up with Anna to hear about her background, the PORADA Awards and how her Ravensbourne experience has equipped her for success.
Tell me about your educational journey and life experiences which led you to Ravensbourne.
My journey has been a wonderful adventure!
I grew up in the Netherlands and had a passion for industrial design, but I decided to take a gap year after finishing secondary school, which was a bit unusual back then.
I ended up in Australia and fell in love with it, so I decided to stay.
During my time there, I realised how valuable my international background and language skills were, so I pursued a degree in International Business and Marketing.
I later worked at a European bank in Sydney, where I met people with inspiring stories, like those who completed an MBA in France.
After seven years in Australia, I was missing my family, so I moved to France to do my MBA at INSEAD.
I then did an internship at a big bank in London, which was a great experience, and I was fortunate to have a job offer after 9/11 when the recession started.
Later, I met my husband, and together, we decided to embark on an adventure.
We found ourselves in South Africa, working for a local bank.
Our plans to travel back to Europe by Jeep took an unexpected turn when I became pregnant, and we ended up having our three children in Cape Town.
Eventually, work brought us back to London.
Juggling parenthood and two careers was challenging, so I decided to take a break and focus on our family.
While renovating our home, I realised how much I enjoyed the design process and problem-solving with contractors.
That sparked my passion for interior design, so I took a one-year full-time course and started working as an interior designer.
Over time, I became more interested in customised solutions for tennis clubs and golf courses, but I realised I needed to improve my computer-aided design (CAD) skills.
As my children grew more independent, the Covid period gave me time to reflect, and I decided to revisit my early passion for industrial design, which led me to Ravensbourne.
After nine years as an interior designer, what was it about Ravensbourne that really attracted you?
When I was looking for a course, the location was a top priority, so I focused on London-based options.
I had a serendipitous encounter with a Ravensbourne alumnus, and we had a great conversation about the pros and cons of different programs.
He felt Ravensbourne’s practical approach and industry connections would give me the best opportunity to succeed, and I couldn't agree more!”
Anna Eerdmans , Product Design student at Ravensbourne
I also met with the course leader, Nadine Bennett, who was so positive and reassuring.
She helped me feel confident about being a mature student.
The vibrant energy around Ravensbourne was also a huge factor—there’s just something special about the atmosphere here!
You’ve had quite a busy time recently, having won a 2024 PORADA International Award in the Students category and collecting the award in Milan.
What are some of your reflections on the triumph, and what were some highlights from attending the ceremony?
Going through the design process for the bed was incredibly rewarding, and I was over the moon that the elements I cared so much about were appreciated by the judges.
Sustainability is a core value for me, and I was raised by parents who always looked for ways to reuse and repurpose items.
That mindset has stuck with me, and it was wonderful to see how the design world is truly embracing sustainability beyond just surface-level efforts.
The ceremony in Milan was intimate and special.
I had the chance to meet the jurors and members of the Allievi family, who founded Porada.
They were so warm and appreciative of all the submissions.
One of the best parts was the factory tour, where I saw how raw ideas are transformed into beautifully crafted furniture.
It was awe-inspiring to witness the craftsmanship and attention to detail that goes into each piece.
It made me appreciate the true value of quality work.
Talk to us about your winning project, BOSCO.
What was the creative process like?
What was your primary inspiration?
What were some tools or technologies you utilised to help you along the way?
The inspiration for BOSCO came from Porada’s philosophy, "Born from the love of wood." I wanted to highlight the natural beauty and craftsmanship of the wood, so I took inspiration from the shapes and textures found in the woods.
I created a moodboard filled with elements I found in nature, and from there, I developed the concept.
The bed’s design mimics the graceful form of a tree branch, with legs that taper down, creating an elegant, flowing shape.
The headboard, crafted from a solid circular wooden beam, frames a soft padded cover, adding comfort and style.
The modular design of the bed was also a key element for me, as it simplifies production, makes repairs easy, and reduces transportation costs.
It was fun to experiment with different shapes and models using Procreate, CAD, and 3D printing.
I also enjoyed creating realistic images using Photoshop and AI, which brought my vision to life in a bedroom setting and even in the forest!
How do you believe your work and studies at Ravensbourne equipped you for success at the PORADA Awards?
When I look back at the early days of my design journey, I can't help but smile—those pencil drawings for contractors were a great learning experience, but I’ve come so far since then!
The technical skills I gained at Ravensbourne are invaluable, but perhaps the most important thing I learned was the importance of keeping an open mind during the design process.
I remember feeling disappointed when I didn’t get the mark I wanted on an early project, but the feedback taught me to explore all possibilities before settling on a solution.
That shift in mindset has transformed my approach to design, and I’m so grateful for it.
The exposure to guest speakers and industry professionals has been a game-changer.
It’s given me a much clearer understanding of how the design world works and where I want to take my career next.”
I'm excited for what’s ahead and look forward to continuing this incredible journey!
For more information on the Product Design course at Ravensbourne, you can visit our dedicated course page .
You can also find out more about PORADA via their website .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/built-industry/built-industry-sasha-djurkovic:
Welcome to Built for Industry , a new written content series which will take a deep dive into the unique and longstanding relationship between Ravensbourne University London and the creative, technology and business sectors that shape the world around us.
In this regular series of interviews and blog posts, we’ll examine how Ravensbourne’s distinctive approaches to teaching and knowledge exchange cultivate a dynamic learning environment which addresses the current and future needs of industry.
From industry leaders to academic staff, students to Ravensbourne alumni, we’ll be exploring how ‘Built for Industry’ isn’t just a tagline, but a philosophy which permeates every aspect of the Ravensbourne experience.
For our first instalment, we spoke to filmmaker and Associate Professor in the Digital Film Production department Sasha Djurkovic about her upcoming documentary on former President of Yugoslavia Josip Broz Tito, her appearance at CPH:DOX and the industry insights she brings into the classroom.
Tell us about your documentary on Tito’s time as Yugoslavia’s President.
What inspired you to create it?
The series about late Yugoslav president, Josip Broz Tito, has been commissioned by ARTE – a German/French broadcaster in cooperation with ORF – the Austrian broadcasters as well as HRT – the Croatian broadcasters.
The production company that is producing the series, Look Films, is now in talks with RAI – the Italian broadcasters, so this is a truly pan–European series.
I have been commissioned to write it, produce it and direct it.
How do documentarians balance historical accuracy with an engaging narrative?
I can say that historical accuracy must be 100% otherwise the series loses its credibility.
There are no ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ there - it’s basic.
The challenge is not to do an account of the events, but to tell the story.
The mission is to understand people we are telling the story about and to examine their decisions – how and why something happened and how that translates into today’s world.
What are some of the challenges you faced when making the documentary, and how did you overcome them?
Each film I worked on has different set of challenges.
For this series, the challenge is to make a story and characters we know very little about, modern and relevant.
As Tito was a Yugoslav president during and after the Cold War, his story is very relevant today.
The other challenge is to get all experts and witnesses on board and also to get all the archive footage.
That is a long process that requires lots of negotiations and patience but also an understanding that you won’t get everything.
So you’ve got to get creative and have fun as filmmaking is fun!
You are also delivering a masterclass at CPH:DOX (Copenhagen International Documentary Film Festival).
How do you believe your industry insight benefits Ravensbourne students, and what do you think is the most valuable knowledge that professionals can share with students preparing for careers in documentary filmmaking?
Being an active filmmaker that visits festivals, listen to masterclasses, participate in discussions and industry bodies is so important.
Everything I hear, learn, watch and try goes straight into a classroom so that my students get current, up-to-date information and knowledge that enhances their learning and also prepares them better for a life and work after Ravensbourne.”
Sasha Djurkovic , Filmmaker and Associate Professor at Ravensbourne University London
The film and TV industry is changing so fast, so the students need to know what is going on.
How do you anticipate your documentary being received internationally and what lessons might Ravensbourne students learn about cultural context and audience reception from your experiences?
So apart from the three-part series, I will be editing a feature film that will hopefully be screened at the festivals where I would be able to gain more sense about audience engagement than from TV screens.
I’m also hoping to screen the film to Ravensbourne students so they can learn how history tend to repeat itself and learn more about complex political figures that shaped the world we live in.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/humans-ravensbourne/take-break-josie-morton:
Join us as we sit down with members of the Ravensbourne community to hear about what they're up to, what they enjoy doing in their free time, and - most importantly - what is their favourite break-time snack?
Hi there!
What is your name and role at Ravensbourne?
Hi, my name is Josie Morton and I am a Student Support Officer within Student Services at Ravensbourne.
My go-to drink is a flat white, I also love a pain au chocolat as a snack!
After I completed my degree in education, I spent some time working in the early years sector before applying to a wonderful scheme called the '10,000 Black Interns Foundation' for an internship in higher education.
After my application, I spent two months on an internship with UCAS, researching improvements in fair access for students and assisting prospective students through results day and clearing.
I really enjoyed working in higher education and helping students so I am very grateful to be in a role now where I can support students to thrive in university.
What do you do in your role at Ravensbourne?
As a Student Support Officer, I assist students who visit the Student Services information desk on level 3.
Whether they have questions or need clarification on university processes, I guide them through the next steps and ensure they receive the support they need.
What do you get up to in your free time?
When I’m not at work, I love exploring new places in London especially after my recent move from Bristol.
I’m always open to recommendations for great spots to check out!
I also love second-hand shopping, so I enjoy exploring charity shops in different areas to find hidden gems and bargains.
What advice would you give to your 18-year-old self?
The advice I would give my 18-year-old self would be to take every opportunity that comes your way and be brave!
I can’t stop listening to … anything by Cleo Sol!
My current favourite piece of clothing/accessory is …my hoop earrings.
My guilty pleasure is … reality TV Shows.
If I won an all-expenses-paid trip, I’d go to … St Kitts and Nevis in the Caribbean to visit my family and eat as much food as possible!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/become-ravensbourne-blogger:
All blog submissions need to be your own ideas–we can’t publish anything that has appeared anywhere else.
Referencing different articles however is fine, just make sure you include a link to where it came from.
We will try to work with you to make sure your blog looks as good as it can and gets seen by as many people as possible.
We will do this by sharing it across our social media pages and we can also include a link in the blog back to any of your personal websites or LinkedIn profiles.
Our blog is our online magazine and is a place to share ideas, discuss a relevant topic, or let us know of any interesting projects you have been involved in.
Topics must be relevant for those reading the blog, and so themes around academic issues, student and staff health and wellbeing and lifestyle are likely to interest our audiences.
Once you choose what you would like to talk about, start with sending us a couple of sentences about your idea.
You can also attach any word docs, PDFs and accompanying images here too.
To make the blog as engaging as possible, we ask that you try to add at least one image here.
When it comes to choosing an image, try to find something that is as relevant to the post as possible.
While we will try our very best to make sure that all submissions are included on our website, each post will need to meet our criteria to appeal to our audiences, and for this reason we cannot guarantee that every submission will be included.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-funding/international-tuition-fees:
Currently reading: International tuition fees
Further Education (Foundation Diploma courses)
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Students starting in 2024/2025 and 2025/26 academic year:
Discounts
* Please note that the early payment discount is not available to students on BSc (Hons) Business Management with International Year One course .
All tuition fees apply to each year of the course and are subject to review in respect of subsequent years.
Important note: Please be advised that the above tuition fees are for new overseas fee-paying students.
The easiest method is to pay through Convera or TransferMate.
By using the TransferMate service you are able to pay at your local bank in your home currency and will be offered a competitive exchange rate without extra bank transfer charges.
All payments can be tracked 24 hours a day online so you will not need to confirm with Ravensbourne if the payment has been received.
But, if you do have any questions about the TransferMate service or your payment please contact the TransferMate Customer Care Team at [email protected]
TransferMate is a safe, secure online payment method that removes the friction from international student payments, reducing the time and money associated with sending and receiving funds.
Trusted by over 110,000 students worldwide every year, TransferMate is the fastest, more cost effective, and better way to pay your tuition and student housing fees to Ravensbourne University London.
TransferMate allows you to:
Step 1: • Register your payment on the Ravensbourne student portal • Choose Wire Transfer or Credit Card • Confirm your personal details and “Save and Confirm” your payment to complete the booking.
Step 2: If you are paying via bank transfer, please make your payment to the instructed bank account.
(NOTE: Brazilian, Chinese, and Indian students will be required to send supporting documents.
Please follow the instructions provided.) • If paying by credit card, simply enter your card details.
Step 3: • Once funds are received, payment is transferred to Ravensbourne University London.
• Confirmation of payment is emailed to both you and Ravensbourne University London.
For more information, download our factsheet on TransferMate’s services and share it with your family.
Download the TransferMate factsheet

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-funding/scholarships-international-students:
Ravensbourne offers a variety of scholarships for international students paying international fees
We are excited to offer scholarships to all our international students.
We encourage all prospective students to carefully plan for the full range of study expenses, including accommodation, travel, equipment, and food.
To help manage costs, we recommend considering additional funding options such as part-time work or savings.
The student budget planner is a great resource to create a realistic budget and ensure a smooth and successful study experience.
We are here to support you every step of the way as you prepare for your studies in the UK!
Overseas fee-paying students starting our undergraduate courses will receive a scholarship of £3,500 for each year of study, which will be automatically applied.
Eligibility
Applicants who have accepted their offer, are classified as overseas students for fee purposes, and holding an offer for an undergraduate course at Ravensbourne.
Awarded scholarships will be applied as a fee discount, and the scholarship will be applied to each year of the course.
Overseas fee-paying students starting our postgraduate courses will receive a scholarship of £3,500, which will be automatically applied.
Applicants who have accepted their offer, are classified as overseas students for fee purposes, and holding an offer for a postgraduate course at Ravensbourne.
Awarded scholarships will be applied as a fee discount.
Over 1,800 dynamic future leaders from all over the world, and from all professional backgrounds, have arrived in the UK to start a life-changing year studying and discovering the UK as a Chevening Scholar.
This time next year, this really could be you, and the first step to being awarded a prestigious Chevening Scholarship is to apply.
Chevening Scholarships are the UK government’s global scholarship programme, funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations.
Available in over 160 countries and territories, the scholarships are awarded to outstanding emerging leaders to pursue one-year Master’s degrees in any subject and at any UK university.
Chevening Scholars have ambition and leadership potential, a strong academic background, and an excellent record of rising to prominent positions in their countries.
There are over 44,000 Chevening Alumni around the world, together forming an influential and highly regarded global network.
Chevening Scholarships are for talented people who have been identified as potential leaders across a wide range of fields, including politics, business, the media, civil society, religion, and academia.
Applicants should be high calibre graduates with the personal, intellectual and interpersonal qualities necessary for leadership.
A full list of eligibility criteria is available on the Chevening website.
Scandinavian students seeking financial support can explore Fundraising.How , which offers a comprehensive guide featuring articles on scholarships and funding opportunities.
The platform provides detailed information on eligibility criteria, application processes, and useful tips for maximizing success.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-funding/us-federal-loans:
Ravensbourne University London is certified by the US Department of Education to provide federal student aid for our undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs.
Our Federal School Code (FSC) is 042535.
Please read this information carefully before making your application.The loan application process is not the same for foreign schools and US colleges, and different regulations apply for attendance at foreign schools.
The information is relevant to prospective and current undergraduate and postgraduate students.
We strongly encourage all current and prospective borrowers to consult the US Department of Education's Student Loan website as it provides all the information about loan entitlement and values that are constantly updated.
The US Loans team administers US federal student loans for both undergraduate and postgraduate students studying at Ravensbourne University London.
If you require any further information, please email the international team .
All US student financial aid is regulated by US federal laws enforced by the US Department of Education.
Ravensbourne University London is responsible for the implementation of these regulations and has little or no discretion therein.
Ravensbourne University London makes no guarantee that US student financial aid once approved will not be removed in full at any time either by action of the US Department of Education or by the university in implementing US federal regulations.
Important note : All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time.
Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/entry-requirements-and-visas/country-specific-information:
Every year, students from all around the world choose to study with us.
Wherever in the world you may be, your journey to Ravensbourne University London starts here.
This page will provide you with key information you will need to know before you apply to Ravensbourne from your country.
Please visit the Country-specific Entry Requirements page to find the entry requirements for your country.
You can find helpful information and hear students and alumni from your region share their cultural experiences, reflect on studying in a different country, and elaborate on how they made the most of their time in the United Kingdom.
We currently have an exclusivity agreement with Oxford International Education Group in Sub-Saharan and South Asian countries.
We are unable to recruit directly from these markets.
If the country you are applying from is recruited by OIEG, please contact OIEG using the contact details below:
Email: [email protected] Telephone: +44 20 8312 8066
Sub-Saharan countries: Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
South Asian countries: Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/entry-requirements-and-visas/english-language-requirements:
This webpage outlines the various tests and qualifications accepted to meet the required English Language proficiency level.
All courses at Ravensbourne University London are conducted in English.
Therefore, all applicants must demonstrate a minimum standard of English language proficiency to be eligible for admission.
The required minimum proficiency is a GCSE grade 4 or C (or equivalent) in English.
International students need to submit an English language test as proof of their proficiency, unless exempted by Ravensbourne or meeting UKVI exemptions from English language testing requirements .
Please note: We will always consider the whole application and accompanying documents to assess an applicant’s level of competence in English Language.
We therefore reserve the right to ask for additional evidence of English language if we have concerns about an applicant’s level of proficiency.
Ravensbourne University London holds a sponsor licence issued by the Home Office, permitting us to recruit students who require a visa to study in the UK.
In addition to the University’s own English language requirements, the UK Home Office sets its own minimum standards for applicants requiring a visa to study in the UK.
If you will be studying a Foundation Diploma, you must obtain a UKVI approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) such as IELTS for UKVI.
If you are studying above degree level i.e.
bachelor's level or higher, you may take any of the tests or qualifications listed on this webpage.
Unless stated otherwise, tests and qualifications used to meet English language requirements must be dated within 2 years of the start date of your chosen course.
We offer the Ravensbourne English Language Test in partnership with Oxford ELLT at a discounted rate of £108.
Please use the 10% discount code: RUL10 .
This is an online test which assesses the four core skills of Listening, Reading, Writing and Speaking.
In order to take the test, you must have:
This test is available for current Ravensbourne offer holders whose offer is conditional on meeting our English language entry requirements
You must not have taken the Ravensbourne English Language Test in the last 2 months
Book your test here .
Foundation: 5.0 overall (with minimum of 5.0 in each component)
Please note : Foundation Diploma applicants are required to provide a Secure English Language Test or SELT.
The only IELTS test we can accept is IELTS Academic for UKVI .
The only PTE Academic test we can accept is PTE Academic for UKVI.
Foundation: SELT B1 High Pass
Please note : Foundation Diploma applicants are required to provide a Secure English Language Test.
The only LanguageCert International ESOL test we can accept is SELT B1 High Pas.
B2 Communicator is not accepted for Foundation level.
Undergraduate: Grade C/4 or above
Please note : IGCSE English as a Second Language does not meet our English language entry requirements.
Postgraduate: Grade C/4 or above
Please note: IGCSE English as a Second Language does not meet our English language entry requirements.
Postgraduate: 72 points overall with minimum Reading 18, Listening 17, Speaking 20, Writing 17
Please note: We are unable to accept TOEFL iBT Home Edition test.
All tests must be taken in person at a test centre.
Undergraduate:
Year XII High School Certificate from CBSE/CISCE or state boards with 60% or above in English Language, achieved within the previous 4 years of the date of enrolment.
This does not include Punjab and Haryana state boards.
Postgraduate:
Year XII High School Certificate from CBSE/CISCE or state boards with 70% or above in English Language, achieved within the previous 7 years of the start date of the course.
If you cannot take any of the tests listed above, please contact Admissions to discuss your options.
If you have any questions, get in touch with our International Admissions team through the contact form , and we will respond as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/entry-requirements-and-visas/visas-and-immigration:
Currently reading: Immigration control
If your nationality is not UK or Irish, then you are subject to immigration control.
Being subject to immigration control means that you will need a visa or have immigration permission that permits study in the UK.
If your status is British overseas territories citizen, British overseas citizen, British national (overseas) or British protected person, you are still subject to immigration control and do not have the automatic right to study and work in the UK.
If you are a British subject you will usually be subject to immigration control.
This means that if you are studying a course that is longer than six months in duration you will need to apply for a Student visa.
If you are planning to study in the United Kingdom longer than six months, you will need a Student visa.
A student visa allows you to live and study in the UK for the duration of your course.
Before you apply for a Student visa you will need a CAS number, unless you apply for a suitable alternative immigration type that permits study.
If you already have a valid visa or immigration permission for the UK which permits study at any institution at any level, you may not need to apply for a Student visa.
However, if you have valid Student visa from another institution you will not be permitted by the UKVI to study with us.
You will be required to obtain a Student visa sponsored by the Ravensbourne University London.
Further guidance can be found on the UK Government website .
CAS stands for Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies.
The CAS number is a unique alphanumeric code that links to a virtual document on the UK Visa & Immigration (UKVI) online Sponsorship Management System.
You need a CAS number to apply for a Student visa.
The CAS statement is information about you and your intended programme of study contained in the virtual document shared with UKVI.
Each CAS is institution and programme specific.
That means that a CAS issued by Ravensbourne University London can only be used in a Student visa application for study at Ravensbourne University London on the programme of study for which the CAS was issued.
The admissions team is responsible for assessing the fee status and identifying applicants' residency permissions.
Only applicants requiring a visa to study in the UK will go through the CAS process.
Applicants needing a visa will receive an invitation to CAS Shield a minimum of six months prior to the start of the semester, provided they have accepted their offer.
CAS Shield guides applicants through the necessary documentation and questions.
Once all steps on CAS Shield are completed and the deposit is received, the admissions team will request the CAS from the UKVI.
The CAS deposit is non refundable except in certain circumstances.
Find more information on the CAS deposit refund page .
To apply for a Student visa and study in the UK you must meet the following requirements:
Please note: If you are 16 or 17 years old, you must have consent from your parents, supported by evidence when you apply, proof of parental or legal guardian consent along with their relationship to you, and ensure suitable care arrangements are in place for you in the UK.
You can find more information about student visa application process on the UKVI website .
We offer Student visa application support to current and prospective students at Ravensbourne University London.
We have a dedicated team that provides a step-by-step guide to applying for a Student visa, and offer support webinars at certain times of year.
Please email [email protected] .
Applications from outside the UK can be made up to six months before the start date of your programme of study in the UK.
You should allow plenty of time for your visa application to be processed.
You can find information about visa processing times on the UKVI website .
You may be able to pay for a faster decision on your Student visa application when you select your biometric appointment on the website of your local Visa Application Centre, if these services are available in that location.
Application fees:
You can work full-time until your visa expires if you meet all of the the following criteria:
You cannot work full-time until after the end date of your programme as stated on your CAS or if you have any outstanding study activities e.g.
a referral or repeat.
You can find more information about the term dates and vacation dates for your programme.
You can find the end date of your programme of study on the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) which you were issued with to apply for your current Student visa.
After you have successfully completed your programme of study, the same restrictions on the type of work that is permitted still applies.
Types of work that are not permitted include:
Please note: If we remove sponsorship on your visa because you have withdrawn or been suspended from your course or because you have exited with a lower award then you are not permitted to undertake any work after the date that we remove sponsorship of your visa.
The Graduate Route provides an opportunity for students who have Student visa and have been awarded their degree to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, at any skill level for a period following their studies.
Further information for students looking to apply to the Graduate Route, including eligibility, how to apply, accessing your immigration status (eVisa) and conditions of the route can be found in the Home Office guidance: The Graduate route: information for international students
There is also the UKVI webpage Graduate visa
Please note the following main points you should be aware of:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-apply/entry-requirements:
Here you'll find entry requirements for home and international students.
Individual course entry requirements can also be found on each of the course pages.
Students must have Maths and English Language GCSEs with grade C/level 4 or above) or an acceptable equivalent (for example Functional skills level 2 and also to hold at least one level 3 qualification.
Students will normally be expected to possess five GCSEs (grade C/level 4 or above) or equivalent (including English).
Please consult the individual course pages for the specific level 3 requirements for each course.
Students should have a 2:2 or higher in a bachelor (honours) degree (or equivalent non-UK qualifications) in a relevant subject, or an equivalent professional qualification in a related subject area.
If you are applying directly from an undergraduate degree course without experience or professional practice you must be able to demonstrate a good knowledge of your chosen subject area.
International learners will need to demonstrate a certain level of proficiency in the English language.
Please see our English language requirements for more information.
If you cannot find your country or your qualifications listed below, please contact us for advice or see our Frequently Asked Questions .
Please note : Applications are considered on an individual basis and other qualifications/work experience may be taken into consideration where an applicant does not meet the general qualifications requirements detailed below.
Please find details of country specific entry requirements for our foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate courses on our Country-specific Entry Requirements page .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/how-apply/international-students-faqs:
International students must meet the specific entry requirements for their chosen programme, which typically includes qualifications equivalent to UK A-levels or a bachelor's degree for postgraduate courses.
For creative subjects, students will also need to submit a portfolio or showreel.
Additionally, proof of English language proficiency, such as IELTS or TOEFL, is required.
You can find detailed country-specific entry requirements on the Country-Specific Entry Requirements page.
Yes, international students will need a Student Visa to study in the UK.
You can apply for a visa once you have received an offer of a place at Ravensbourne University London.
More information can be found on our Visas and immigration page and the UK Government website.
Yes, we offer a variety of scholarships and discounts for international students at all levels and across all subject areas.
For more details, please visit our Fees and Funding page.
Accommodation is available for international students through the university’s partnership with local providers.
You can apply for accommodation once you have accepted your offer.
More details about housing options and application deadlines are available on the university website: Accommodation | Ravensbourne University London .
Yes, international students on a Student Visa can work up to 20 hours per week during term-time and full-time during breaks.
The university also provides support to help you find part-time employment opportunities.
Ravensbourne offers a range of support services, including academic support, career advice, counselling, and visa guidance.
The International team is available to assist with any questions you may have before and during your studies.
You can reach them at [email protected] .
International students are required to have health insurance.
If you are studying for six months or longer, you will be eligible for the UK’s National Health Service (NHS) and should pay the immigration health surcharge as part of your visa application.
If you have student immigration permission that allows you to take employment, you can work up to 20 hours or up to 10 hours a week during term-time, but, you must not be self-employed or take a permanent full-time job.
However, you should be able to pay your tuition fees and living costs without having to work in the UK and you should not rely on money from work in the UK.
For more up-to-date information on working in the UK while you study, please consult the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA).
Yes, international students are encouraged to participate in a wide range of extracurricular activities, including clubs, societies, and events hosted by the Students' Union.
This is a great way to meet other students and make the most of your university experience.
If you need to leave the UK temporarily during your studies, it’s important to notify the university and ensure your visa remains valid.
You may need to apply for a new visa if you return after an extended absence.
Always check with the University before making any travel plans.
As part of the application process, a portfolio and interview may be required.
If you're unable to attend the interview in person, we can arrange it via telephone, Teams, or Zoom.
We can provide guidance for your portfolio.
Please email us at [email protected] for support.
You can also visit our dedicated page for portfolio workshops and advice here: Portfolio workshops and advice | Ravensbourne University London

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/sunita-bhuwanee:
Sunita is a professional and SME specialist in Entrepreneurship Development with over 15 years of experience, She has engaged with enterprising students in the Start-Up Lab to facilitate the launch of new innovative products and services in the creative industries.
Sunita Bhuwanee provides business support and mentoring to new aspiring enterprising students seeking to start up, and offer unique enterprising perspective at the intersection of design, technology and innovation, keeping in mind sustainability, social and environmental impact.
Sunita facilitates collaboration, and implements enterprise innovation management practices that are purpose-led, drive impact, sustainable growth while keeping young minds stay entrepreneurial focussed.
In the start-Up Lab Sunita provides group support as well as 1-1 business advice and guidance to the enterprising students.
Furthermore she develop networks to encourage young aspiring entrepreneurs to benefit from the Ravensbourne creative ecosystem, young fresh talents, academia, and knowledgee resources to innovate, develop, grow and optimise on knowledge and networks for future successful professional and entrepreneurial career journey.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/alumni-stories-how-we-launched-our-colourful-mural-business:
We caught up with Kirsty and Brittany to discuss how SEEDS has helped them to kick-start their business and turn dreams into reality.
How was the idea for K&B Design born?
We have been friends since primary school and have always shared the same creative interests.
At Ravensbourne we both studied on the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course and really focused on building our own signature style.
In our final year, we were commissioned to develop a mural for a local café, and after some really encouraging feedback for the piece, the idea for our business was born.
Growing up, we’d often talked about how great it would be to build a business together, but with no experience it seemed like a bit of a pipe dream.
But after discussing our business idea with our course leader, we were introduced to SEEDS.
Through our involvement with the scheme, we learnt all about the fundamentals of launching and running a business.
What were some of the main benefits of working with SEEDS?
SEEDS gave us access to our very own mentor – a professional that has experience launching and running a business in a similar industry.
We were asked to put forward the names of three mentors we would love to work with and weren’t too unrealistic.
We were paired with the lovely Abi Meats, from RUDE Studio .
She and her husband have created murals for massive clients such as Apple and Ted Baker.
Abi taught us loads about the industry – she helped push us out of our comfort zones and build the courage to set bigger goals for the business.
Alongside our work with Abi, we also worked with SEEDS mentors Yvonne, Charles and Judi.
They have their own expertise in business, finance and life coaching, and all their help and guidance was invaluable.
Working with them helped us to really realise our own worth.
Another benefit of SEEDS were the fortnightly workshops that are run by the mentors as well as external helpers.
The workshops cover a huge variety of topics – everything from tax to branding.
Even though these meetings were held over Zoom because of the pandemic, they were still so engaging and really helped us implement new strategies and ideas into our business.
How has SEEDS helped you to pursue your career goals?
Before we were introduced to SEEDS, painting murals was just an idea to us, but with the right support we were able to launch K&B Design, and now we're proud to say that our business is thriving!
Over time, we have learnt how to scout and approach new business and complete jobs to the highest standards.
Without SEEDS, we wouldn’t have had the confidence to register as a limited company and take our business to the next level.
We now feel we have the skills and professionalism to reach out to even bigger clients.
What have you been doing since you launched the business?
Since graduating last summer, we have worked with a wide range of clients, ranging from small independently run businesses to a luxury London law firm.
Alongside our part-time jobs, our work days are split into admin and designing and painting, meaning most days look completely different.
We have recently found out that we have also won incubation space at Ravensbourne, which is another exciting stepping stone for our business.
We look forward to seeing where this opportunity will take us.
K&B Design Ltd provides custom hand-painted murals for areas and spaces that need it the most, from the small interior of a salon, to the large exterior of a town park.
We believe that good signage or artwork in a public or commercial space sells and will pay for itself many times over.
Creating an enjoyable environment is an important factor in what attracts the public to a space and artwork is an effective way of doing this.
We are passionate about engaging with the community and creating art with and for the public.
Kirsty and Brittany , K&B Design

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/alumnus-launches-film-festival-after-graduating-during-pandemic:
Charles Whiteley graduated from the BA (Hons) Digital Television Production course with a first class degree in 2020.
Despite graduating during a pandemic, Charles has successfully launched his own film festival and is also in the pre-production stages of his own short film.
After graduation, Charles became involved with SEEDS , Ravensbourne's Self-Employment Entrepreneurship Diversity Scheme.
Through this work, he worked closely with a mentor and was able to build the entrepreneurial skills and confidence needed to succeed in industry.
We caught up with Charles to discuss how SEEDS helped him achieve his goals and to tell us more about his current projects.
I became involved with SEEDs after I applied once I had already graduated.
I’d already heard a lot about it from people in the industry.
Those I spoke to said it would be a perfect way to develop myself as an individual and as an entrepreneur.
For me, some of the biggest benefits of joining SEEDs were the weekly workshops and the meetings with industry professionals.
Having the opportunity to listen to their individual stories was really inspiring, and they were there to offer a lot of really useful advice.
SEEDs also offered me my own mentor that was working within a similar industry to me.
I was lucky enough to work with acclaimed British film director, producer and writer Ben Charles Edwards , who runs his own production company, Goldfinch.
Working with Ben really helped me to better understand the industry and make those all-important connections.
Since completing the SEEDS programme, I have so much more confidence and awareness from a business and entrepreneurial standpoint.
By the end of my time at SEEDS I had a really clear vision of my path and my future – I knew I wanted to pursue a career as a film director.
In my final year at Ravensbourne, I created a short film entitled ‘In One’s Right Mind.
This gave me my first real taste of filmmaking and I loved it.
Since graduating, I have been working on film sets as a runner.
I am also in the pre-production stage of my new short film ‘My Father’s Son’.
The film is about the traditional expectations a gamekeeper has for his son and how these are challenged when his son explores his own sexuality.
I have also been working on a film festival aimed towards students and young people interested in filmmaking.
The festival is called Future Generations Film Festival and is a bi-monthly online and annual live event.
The idea for the festival was born while I was completing the SEEDS programme.
We now have a crew and a panel of judges made up of Ravensbourne graduates and other industry professionals.
The aim for the festival is to act as a stepping stone from education into the industry.
As a team of young creatives we really understand there needs to be more support among our community to help others break into the industry.
It is the hope that the festival will help propel fresh talent into the spotlight to get that much-needed exposure.
The pandemic has made the need for this kind of support even more apparent!
We're currently looking for universities to share our festival with their filmmaking students – our aim is to create a nationwide network of filmmaking students.
The festival can showcase their work and offer graduates support as they take their first steps in their career.
If you'd like to get involved with the Future Generations Film Festival, please email [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/film-student-gains-invaluable-experience-working-film-set-massive:
BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate Elliot Foreman experiences what it's like to work on a huge film set with massive global brand, Bloomberg.
In this interview, Elliot Foreman speaks to us about how he became involved with SEEDS, Ravensbourne's Self Employment Entrepreneurship Scheme , his experience with NextShoot Video Production Company and what it was like to work on set with a massive global brand like Bloomberg .
SEEDS is designed to support the natural skills of Ravensbourne's neurodivergent students and those from diverse backgrounds in setting up their own business or freelance careers.
As part of the SEEDS programme, Elliot was mentored by Dominic Sutherland , the managing director of NextShoot.
This was a perfect fit, as Elliot was keen to learn more about film production and how to operate a company.
Elliot and Dominic forged a great connection over purposeful storytelling.
He learned invaluable skills from his mentor and even had the opportunity to work on set at a large-scale shoot with corporate client, Bloomberg.
These experiences equipped him with the confidence needed to take his next steps in his own career as a filmmaker.
We caught up with Elliot and Dominic to find out more about their experience.
Elliot: I heard about SEEDS after speaking with Yvonne Halloran, the project leader at SEEDS in the final year of my degree.
At Ravensbourne I studied a BA (Hons) Digital Film Production and I had always wanted to start my own film production company.
While I loved the craft of filmmaking and my degree equipped me with all the practical skills, I wanted to learn more about the business side of things.
Dominic has his own corporate video production company, NextShoot, so I nominated for him to be my mentor.
The SEEDS team reached out to him to see if he would be interested, and he agreed to be part of the programme.
Dominic: We were very interested, partly because we’re already in that mindset of mentoring the next generation.
I’ve always been very tuned in to people doing work experience because I did it myself when I was in my teens.
I worked in newspapers, advertising and public relations agencies, so by the time I had my degree, I already had a sense of what I wanted to do.
I always felt like if you had a good mentor at any of these internships, they could really help you decide whether or not this was something you wanted to do for a career.
We were initially introduced to Elliot to see if it would be a good fit  and I was immediately impressed by him.
In this business, I've interviewed thousands of people, and I could see that he was switched on and serious and really wanted to make the most of the mentor/mentee relationship.
If you have experience and you can pass that on to younger people, it’s hugely rewarding.
But it’s also a two-way street...
you recognise where young people have ideas...
so it’s fun to tap into that youthful exuberance and their way of thinking.”
Dominic Sutherland , Managing director, NextShoot
Elliot: Every month I had one-on-one sessions with Dominic.
I picked up valuable insights on budgeting for productions, the ins and outs of pre-production processes and crafting client proposals and rate cards.
I also learned about effective strategies for marketing a production company, financial management, and boosting productivity as well as how to maintain a healthy work-life balance as a business owner.
We also had discussions about the future of the film industry and how Artificial Intelligence (AI) might influence and reshape the way corporate videos are created.
I spend two days working as a production assistant with Dominic and his team at one of his client’s shoots, Bloomberg in London.
I really admire how Dominic always strives for innovation within his work.
He loves filmmaking as well as storytelling.
Him and his co-director Mike bring that enthusiasm into each project and deliver exceptional quality for their clients.
I witnessed how Dominic operated on set, which was different to some other sets I have been on.
Even though he is directing and producing, he makes such an effort to ensure everyone is well looked after, follows the processes, takes lunch breaks and finishes on time, which created a really good vibe.
On set, I was particularly drawn to the camera department, which used an industry standard camera/lighting kit to produce beautiful-looking imagery.
Everyone was incredibly friendly and open to answering any questions I had about the process.
They really made me feel part of the team.
Dominic: This mentoring period is a golden opportunity for the mentee to get a quick look behind the curtain and, frankly, decide if it’s for them or not.
The commonality between us was that Elliot had already set up his own video production company.
He wanted to run his own business, so there was a lot we could discuss around that in terms of making films, plus the day-to-day elements of operating a video production company.
We always try to line up significant work so it intersects with mentoring people.
I felt it would be great to get Elliot on this shoot with one of our clients, Bloomberg, in the City of London, so he joined us for two days of filming.
It was quite a big shoot as we were doing a live feed to New York so they could see the different camera angles and sign off on the content.
It was probably quite an eye opener for him to see a professional shoot of that size, where we had specialists on set and to see how all the individuals worked together.
He was very proactive on set.
I thought after it wrapped up that I could employ him, as he’s switched on and responsible.
Having that time with my mentor where I was able to ask any questions was invaluable.
The whole process gave me a lot of confidence in myself as a young business owner and made me feel ready to move forward and pursue a career in film production.
Elliott Foreman , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate
Elliot: Yes, definitely.
The SEEDS team genuinely care about your success and your goals for your career.
They will champion you and work with you to help you move in the right direction.
They also provided me with valuable resources and held different workshops.
The mentoring side has also been incredible.
A huge thanks to SEEDS for this unique opportunity and to Dominic for saying yes to be my mentor.
Dominic: I think if you have experience and you can pass that on to younger people, it’s hugely rewarding.
But it’s also a two-way street.
For someone like me who is still trying to be creative in an industry that’s always evolving, you recognise where young people have ideas and they will be the ones making adverts that will be going viral in the coming years, so it’s fun to tap into that youthful exuberance and their way of thinking.
Elliot: I am currently working as either a freelance cinematographer or developing my video production company Eloquent Visions .
I am in the process of pitching for a public sector project, and I am in post-production for a short concepts trailer for an AI film.
Every day always looks very different.
For example, some days I will be on a shoot or in a studio filming.
I also have days where I am at home working on projects, editing content, planning client shoots or working on some of my personal projects.
I am working on putting in place some processes so I can build a strong foundation and gradually scale my company!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/freelance-illustrator-and-advertising-student-fiona-quadri-finding:
Fiona Quadri studied on Ravensbourne’s Foundation course in Fashion Promotion, before going on to study on the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course .
She is now in her third year and due to graduate in December 2022.
While in her final year at Ravensbourne, Fiona was awarded a place within SEEDS, Ravensbourne's Self Employment Entrepreneurship Diversity Scheme.
SEEDS is designed to support the natural enterprise skills of Ravensbourne's dyslexic, neurodivergent students and those from diverse backgrounds in setting up their own business or freelance career.
With guidance and support from the team at SEEDS, she has been able to build the skills and confidence to thrive as a freelancer and build her own unique practice in illustrative image making.
In her work, Fiona addresses identity and race within BIPOC queer communities and aims to give voice to marginalised communities and break down stereotypes.
We caught up with Fiona to discuss how her experience with SEEDS helped her flourish, her unique style, and her dreams for the future.
I had a friend that spoke a lot about SEEDS and recommended the programme to me.
It sounded like a really uplifting community and I was inspired.
I got in touch with Yvonne, the organiser of SEEDS, and she was very supportive.
I wrote my application and started last September.
I found SEEDS really helpful, because it taught me a lot of things that I’d never learnt on my course.
For example, we had dedicated classes about setting up as a freelancer and taxes and how to write invoices.
We got the chance to speak about things like contracts and agreements.
I never knew about my rights as an artist before SEEDS.
Additionally, I learnt how to organise myself financially, as well as how to balance life and work in general.
It was so beneficial to be part of a community of like-minded people.
I got to know people from different courses and felt really inspired by everyone else's individual practices.
Yes, Abi Meats was my mentor.
She owns her own company called This is Rude .
She and her husband Rupert co-own it and they have a shop ‘Everyday Sunshine’ in Stoke Newington where they sell their prints.
Alongside that, they also do freelance work.
She’s worked with some massive brands like Apple and they’ve recently done a big advertising project with Bassets.
For me, working with Abi was a signal of hope.
She showed me that there are things I can do with my art, and avenues I can pursue that I didn’t feel I could on my course.
She taught me that I don’t have to pigeonhole myself.
I always felt like my practice was a little different from others on my course, because I had come from a fine art and fashion background.
Abi showed me that I could stick with my own style.
She showed me that it was possible to be as creative as I wanted and still find meaningful, fulfilling work.
Because of her, I discovered that there were other options than going to work in a studio, which I wasn’t sure I wanted to do.
Yes, I recently went to visit her in her shop.
I also have regular meetings with her.
Even though I’ve completed my work with SEEDS, I still have a great connection with my mentor.
We’ve been talking about collaborating on something together, so that’s really exciting.
It feels more like a friendship now.
I still look up to her as a mentor, but she always says that there are things I can teach her as well, so it’s a two-way relationship.
As I’m still so early in my career, and only just graduating this year, I’m still working out what my career goals are.
I've recently been awarded a place within Incubation, a collaborative space within Ravensbourne's new Institute for Design and Creativity .
SEEDS helped me prep for the pitch for Incubation.
I'd like to thank Charles on the SEEDS programme, he really helped me to structure my words.
This means that I’ll be able to work in the space and share it with so many other fantastic creatives.
In terms of my career, I'm still not sure what my ultimate end goal is, but I want to develop the idea of creating my own brand as a creative.
I want to be able to do freelance work and facilitate workshops under my own synonymous brand name.
During the summer, I was freelancing full time, and I had the opportunity to work on an installation in the centre of London.
The programme I worked with was called Brighter Futures and is funded by Art of London, which basically is the organisation that takes care of everything around Piccadilly in terms of screenings, art installations and events.
That was a really fun experience, and I was able to meet a lot of really interesting industry people.
What I enjoyed about this work was that it gave me the full freedom to experiment.
This was another sort of stamp of approval that my style of work is accepted, and again, it was because of my experience with SEEDS that I had the confidence to explore this.
I’m also about to start my master’s course in a week, which is focusing on our so-called post-colonialist society .
I’ll learn a lot of historical theories.
It looks at how we can dismantle racial injustice and the role the empire played in the past.
The freelance work I do always aligns with my core values of striving for equality and a better future.
I’m hoping that my masters will help inform my work in that sense, as I can feed in a more historical perspective.
I think my style is quite colourful.
As I mentioned, I came from a fine art background and then studied fashion promotion on my foundation course.
We did a very wide variety of activities on the foundation course, including illustration, but the focus was from a fashion promotion point of view.
Fashion illustration is known to be quite fast, because people illustrate while the models are on the catwalk.
It usually entails quickly outlining some details and adding some colour splashes.
I think that’s where my style originated from.
I’ve tended to keep that style and develop it.
From there, I started to experiment with digital drawing.
The advertising course pushed me to develop my digital skills too.
Also, my work is rooted in heritage and culture.
I grew up in a household where we had a lot of Nigerian artwork and Nigerian sculptures around, that heavily influenced my work too.
A really important part of my work is helping to uplift marginalised communities.
I want to be able to use my work to tell the stories of the spaces I navigate such as the black and queer communities.
It’s really important for me to help enable these voices to be heard.
I think my freelance stuff really took off because I was surrounded by so many great creatives.
In the past, I’ve worked on stuff with Lewisham Council.
I was working with a shop owner in New Cross, and we collaborated on a poster series that was about uplifting black-owned businesses.
At the moment I’m busy getting ready to start my masters , and I’m also doing some work for London Design Festival.
I’ve been painting a piece that is exhibiting there.
This is a question I’ve been thinking about a lot over the summer.
Projecting myself into the future, I think my ultimate goal is to develop my brand, as Fiona Quadri ­– so something that is really true to me.
I think ultimately, I would like to succeed with my mixed media art style and continue facilitating workshops.
I hope that my studies on my masters will feed into this, with the historical knowledge I’m acquiring through reading.
I would also love the opportunity for my work to enable me to travel the world.
I’d like to work for myself and manage my own time.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/engaging-young-people-through-immersive-storytelling:
BA (Hons) Motion Graphics graduate Colin Foster is on a mission to use immersive storytelling to engage young people and to offer an alternative way of using technology.
Here BA (Hons) Motion Graphics graduate, Colin Foster discusses his involvement with SEEDS, Ravensbourne’s Self Employment Entrepreneurship Scheme and his recent collaboration with PlayLa.bZ .
As part of the SEEDS programme, Colin was awarded a mentor to work closely with.
Because of his desire to work in the immersive sectors, Colin was partnered with James Edward Marks , the founder of PlayLa.bZ.
Together they have been working on an exciting programme with the East London Dance company to engage school children with immersive technology through the medium of dance.
We caught up with Colin and James to find out more.
Colin (middle) oversees young people using PlayLa.bZ's VR software
Colin: I got involved with PlayLa.bZ through the SEEDS programme, where I was introduced to my mentor, James, who heads up PlayLa.bZ.
PlayLa.bZ is a transformative creative space for students and businesses to collaborate and explore ideas using emerging technology and creative media, which is housed in Ravensbourne.
At Ravensbourne I studied on the BA (Hons) Motion Graphics course, but after graduation I felt I wanted to explore more about immersive technology, so PlayLa.bZ was a perfect fit.
The work that PlayLa.bZ do is something that really inspires me.
I knew I wanted to move into the immersive industry, but I also knew that this was a hard industry to crack – so James was a brilliant contact to have.
We ended up collaborating on a number of different projects.
I decided pretty early on that I wanted a name to reflect the work that I was doing, so that’s how my name ‘Black Matter Reality’ was born.
This is my metaverse pseudonym.
The birth of Black Matter Reality
The name came about because I am really interested in the concept of dark matter.
The universe is made up of 65 per cent dark matter, but we still don’t really know what it is – I find this so fascinating.
So that’s how the name ‘Black Matter Reality’ was created.
East London Dance and PlayLa.bZ collaboration
Colin: I’ve been leading on a few of the collaborations, including some work using GenieMo, the DIY multi-dimensional motion arts capture software that was created by the PlayLa.bz team.
I have recently been working on a project with East London Dance,​ an organisation hosting dance classes for all age groups, including children aged 7-17 in East London.
The project which is called ‘VR Dance’, is a free programme for schools or specialist education providers in the East London area.
Working with East London Dance, BirdGang, Maskomi & GenieMo we were teaching children to play around with future technologies while dancing and having fun.
We were working with a number of different schools over lockdown and teaching them about using 3D software.
This actually transpired in us producing a virtual concert with some of the schools.
As part of the programme, we teach children about motion capture – technology, which can be used to record the movement of people or objects.
We started by encouraging the children to start dancing, singing and playing around with different technology.
We were using SUBPAC switches, which provide a really powerful sound – about as powerful as you would experience on a festival dancefloor.
We were also using other audio-based software which give you the vibration of the music.
Working with reform school students
As part of the VR Dance collaboration, we went to a reform school for children that had been expelled from their schools.
Because of their behavioural issues, the children were struggling to stay in mainstream schools and many of them had short attention spans and struggled with staying on task.
Through our sessions with them, we were able to show them that there were alternative ways to learn.
Through the sessions, we were able to encourage them to be creative and to use the 3D software as a way of expressing themselves.
Colin: Yes, they were really interested from the beginning.
Interestingly, out of the five schools that we visited, the children from the reform school were the most engaged I would say.
I think meeting someone like myself, who has come from a similar background, and who is neurodivergent and has also struggled with mainstream school was quite inspiring for them.
I think it really offered them an alternative.
They could see that they could use their differences to their advantage, as it allowed them to think in a different way.
Compilation from Colin's time at PlayLa.bZ
James: PlayLa.bZ were invited in 2020 to talk at Microsoft EduWeek alongside Imperial College London, and I invited Colin along.
I asked Colin to put together a slide for me which tried to express how his brain functions.
It was basically a mix of the alphabetical order and I think it did a great job of illustrating how he sees the world.
There is research being carried out at the moment which suggests that the neurodivergent brain can think in a more multi-dimensional way.
And so, neurodivergent individuals like Colin are perhaps better built to be able to imagine these emerging virtual spaces.
That opens so many opportunities for future roles working with these new technologies.
I think some of the more mind-expanding creativity comes from these great neurodivergent minds precisely because they are able to think outside the confines of our reality.
These new interactive technologies like augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed reality offer people like Colin an opportunity to connect on a totally new level.
It just highlights that we’ve been conditioned into using technology a traditional way, but there are other ways that it can be used too, outside the constraints of our imaginations.
Colin: Yeah, just thinking back to the young people in the reform school, a lot of them had a lot of trouble concentrating, but this immersive technology was able to really hold their attention.
I think it’s so important to keep building these tools and different ways of working that neurodivergent young people can utilise – it could really open doors for them in their careers.
Colin: Because of SEEDS I’ve been given this opportunity to work with PlayLa.bz.
It’s really been a great chance to work within the immersive industries and to see where my talents really lie.
It’s been great to work with immersive storytelling and to give back to communities with these stories too.
Working with young people that have had a similar background to me and being able to inspire them to find their passion is something that feels really important.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/seeds/seeds-students-create-and-launch-kaleidoscope-magazine:
We are excited to celebrate the launch of ‘Kaleidoscope’, an e-zine created by students on the Ravensbourne SEEDS programme that promotes rising talent among creatives.
SEEDS (the Self-Employment Entrepreneurship Diversity Scheme) is a six-month programme that provides tailored support on finding and pursuing a career path to neurodivergent students and those from diverse backgrounds.
‘ Kaleidoscope ’ was fully created, designed and written by SEEDS students.
The result is an impressive 21-page e-zine that shows off their photography, illustrations, poetry and more.
The theme for the first issue of the magazine is ‘dystopia and utopia’, which explores how Covid-19 has impacted society and our views and expectations for the future.
SEEDS students are assigned an individual industry mentor who works in their aspiring field who helps them develop their business skills, identify market opportunities and establish their own businesses or freelance careers.
They also receive life-coaching lessons, interactive workshops and career planning clinics to help cultivate their enterprise skills.
The Kaleidoscope team includes Charles Whitely as Editor-in-Chief, Poppy Louise Carter as Associate Editor, Cherie Lee as Art Director, Ay Delphine as Project Manager and Keisha Gaspar as Associate Art Director.
“It’s been a real experience creating this magazine, having learned skills, collaborated with artists and brought unique ideas to life,” they said in the magazine’s foreword.
“Kaleidoscope is a magazine aimed at promoting new creatives and rising talent.
Its overall meaning is bringing completely new perspectives with each pattern of the kaleidoscope being a unique outlook.
“It’s a magazine to showcase artwork and creative writing, bringing awareness to individuals and to encourage audiences to become more innovative.”
You can read the first edition of the e-zine on our website .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/kit-store:
To leave Ravensbourne industry-ready, our students need access to a broad range of equipment.
Our Kit Store loans equipment from industry-standard manufacturers, including cameras, audio, lighting and more
We know that early exposure to gold-standard equipment is a vital part of getting you industry-ready, which is why we continually invest in our Kit Store.
Open to all students and staff from their first day at Ravensbourne, the store offers a wide range of lighting equipment, audio devices and cameras, including the Arri Alexa which has shot a few Oscar-winning films.
The Kit Store offers a wide range of digital stills and video cameras, including the Arri Alexa which has been used to capture numerous Oscar-winning films, as well as the Sony FS7, Red, and Phase One cameras.
DSLR and mirrorless options are available across a range of courses, from the easy to use Canon 700D and 5D’s to the stills and video-capable Sony A7s II’s.
We also have a wide range of lenses available, including prime, zoom and macro lenses.
Without the Kit Store there would be no other way for me to try out new, top-of-the-range equipment for projects off campus”
Louis Grace , Music and Sound graduate
The lighting available from the Kit Store covers a wide range of needs, from studio-based photo shoots to film set productions.
This range includes: Bowens & Elinchrom Studio Lighting, Arri, Dedolight, and KinoFlo production lighting, and easy to use light tents with all the relevant accessories such as backdrops, stands, and softboxes.
Our Kit Store staff can offer help and guidance to make sure you choose the right lighting for your project.
The Kit Store offers a wide range of audio, sound, and musical assets.
We house equipment from a selection of industry standard manufacturers including Sennheiser, Shure, Korg, Zoom, and Sound Devices.
Whether you need to record an interview, mic up a drum kit, record audio on a film set, or record a synth into your computer, the Kit Store can help.
While all students can use the Kit Store once they complete their induction, some courses will regularly use our equipment throughout their studies.
The equipment available provides students with everything they need to create a production.
We have a range of cameras and lenses for the prospective directors of photography, lighting and grip for the gaffers and sparks, and location sound recording equipment for the boom operators, plus a whole lot more.
From small to large productions, the Kit Store has a whole range of equipment suitable to your needs.
Over the course of their studies, Digital Television Production students will become experts in using a television studio.
T he Kit Store is able to provide a range of equipment to ensure that your TV studio production can run smoothly.
We offer a range of cables to make sure your audio and visual equipment is correctly linked up.
A dditional cameras, tripods, and microphones can supplement those already available in the space.
Looking to make a drama or documentary?
The Kit Store can provide everything you need to bring your ideas to life.
It can also help you with any outside university broadcast projects you might have.
From studio to location shoots and from sports to street photography, students at Ravensbourne have access to the relevant cameras, lenses, lighting and accessories needed to complete the projects set by their tutors.
If you’re interested in creating a fashion shoot on the campus, then the Kit Store can provide you with the studio lighting, softboxes, and backdrops to make this happen.
If you want to take the shoot outside, Kit Store can also provide portable flash kits to achieve this.
If you’re interested in recording and producing music, creating a radio show, or being a sound recordist on a TV or film production, then the Kit Store has the equipment you need to hone your skills.
If you’re looking to mic-up a drum kit, record a voiceover, synth straight to your computer or capture film dialogue, then our extensive range of microphones, recorders, audio interfaces, and accessories will ensure you’re able to create skillful pieces of work for your project briefs.
If you have come to Ravensbourne to complete a Foundation course, you will receive direction from your tutors to use of a range of the Kit Store’s equipment.
You will learn how to set-up and light a fashion shoot, how to choose which lenses suit each project, and how to record interviews.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/prototyping-suite:
Learn how emerging technologies are transforming the creative industries with access to our state-of-the-art digital prototyping facilities.
Team traditional making methods with a new understanding of experimental techniques in computer-aided design and manufacture.
The prototyping lab is where to come if you want to make physical objects.
We have two prototyping labs which provide the equipment and knowledge to help you realise concepts and create final models and garments.
A vast array of 3D scanners and digitizers bring real-world objects into the digital world.
We have a whole host of other technology too, such as laser cutters, embroiders, 3D printers and a Risograph printer, to help you to create an output for your ideas.
We also have a range of equipment available ranging from industrial sewing machines to sanders and saws.
If it were completely up to me, I would have spent all my time in the prototyping rooms.
There you have access to an array of fabric printing facilities as well as laser cutting and 3D printing.
I loved experimenting with these different design mediums and I would encourage everyone to do this as much as you can.
Lydia Oosting , BA (Hons) Fashion graduate
We welcome all students from every course, but we first ask you to take a health and safety induction and complete an online test.
This is to ensure you work safely and understand the equipment that we have to offer.
More information about our inductions can be found here.
The prototyping rooms are staffed by our expert technical tutors who can advise on the safe use of all our equipment.
We’re also available for advice on design issues, technical knowledge and software troubleshooting.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/atelier:
All our students have access to our atelier, but for our fashion students it will become like a second home.
Now making waves across the fashion world, our talented graduates first learnt their craft here under the guidance of our expert team.
Our atelier team has worked with everyone from international designers to high-profile celebrities, on fashion shows and shoots across the globe.
They have honed their skills working at the highest level of the fashion spectrum and will provide advice and support on any project you are working on.
Whether you are working with knitwear, leather, denim, fine fabrics or intricate embroidery, the atelier environment is fully-equipped to support you.
At Ravensbourne, we work in ideas.
If you can imagine it, we can help bring it to life.
To help inspire you, we have a vast library of manufacturing samples and a library of blocks and patterns to use as a starting point for your creations.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/tv-and-sound-studios:
At Ravensbourne we stand out for offering some of the best TV equipment and sound facilities of any university in the country.
Whether you are looking to shoot a project, edit film or record a piece of music, our facilities have everything you need to create show-stopping work.
If you’re interested in our digital television, film, editing and post production or music and sound courses, then you’re going to love our industry-standard TV and sound studios.
With collaboration at the heart of everything we do, students on all our courses can benefit from these fantastic facilities too.
Ravensbourne's broadcast standard fully equipped HDTV studios rival those used in industry.
Our studios are kitted-out with all the latest specialist equipment and can live stream straight to the internet.
Our fully equipped television studio is equipped with 5 HD cameras, mounted on broadcast spec pedestals.
Alongside the camera equipment, our TV studios also have green screen capabilities.
If you are a fashion student scouting a location for a shoot or a graphic design student seeking a background to record a moving image, then look no further.
When I first visited Ravensbourne I was amazed with the facilities on offer.
The multi-camera studio was the highlight for me, as this allowed us to learn in an industry like environment and create shows which we learnt so much from.”
Elliott Ramdass , Editing and Post Production graduate
The production control room houses all the control equipment for the TV studio including vision and lighting control.
There is also lots of space for researchers, producers and directors to collaborate and create.
A separate control room used exclusively for studio sound is situated immediately adjacent to the Production control room.
The Sound Control Room is fitted with a fully-featured SSL Sound Mixer.
This desk controls all audio elements of any programme recorded in the studio.
Bring your vision to life with our state-of-the-art post production facilities.
In the Post Production area there are two teaching stations with large LCD displays.
There are also seven edit suites, each equipped with Adobe and Avid software.
The Post Production area also has two On-Line Edit Suites, an Audio Post Production Suite, a Colour Grading Suite and also a Content Agent system.
Build skills in music and sound production, electronic arrangement, composition and critical listening with our gold-standard audio recording studio.
Gain an understanding of how music and sound intersect with moving film.
Whether you are combining sound to moving image work for animation or advertisements or working with TV and film, our facilities have everything you need to expertly match sound to screen.
The fully featured recording studio can be used for a simple voice over or recording a full band.
The space is equipped with an analogue desk and Pro Tools recording and has a Euphonix S5 for larger productions.
Access to our studios provides students with enviable professional skills and knowledge through involvement with real-world technical and creative projects.
Here are just a couple of examples of the types of projects you could be a part of:
Ravensbourne undergraduates on the Digital Television Production course joined forces with those on the Digital Television Technology course to create a live streamed broadcast of The Taming of the Shrew for The Royal Shakespeare Company.
This production was opened out to students from across the university to give others a chance to experience the live studio production environment.
Students launched a pop-up TV channel called RaveTV with the tagline, ‘By students, for students’.
The channel was run by Digital Television Production and Digital Television Technology students and broadcast online.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/library:
From specialist books to collections, there is a wealth of information available to you - in print, online and multimedia format.
We will ensure you have all the skills to navigate the library's resources independently and find what you need
As soon as you join the Ravensbourne student/staff community, you will be registered with a library account which allows you to borrow books, DVDs and access material samples and online resources.
The Ravensbourne library holds a selection of Visionaire issues - a highly collectible, multi-format, luxury art and fashion publication.
These are more than ordinary books, but commissioned, collaborative design projects and works of art.
The library also has a small collection of zines and artist books.
Special collections and student work are on display in the cabinets as enquiry reference.
You can ask a librarian if you wish to see the special collections.
Search the collection using the library catalogue .
All online library resources are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and so you don’t need to be on campus to make the most of the collection.
All the information about accessing these resources can be found on the library intranet homepage.
Trend and Consumer Insight Platforms:
AV and Streaming Platforms:
Databases and Journals:
The Library is committed to actively preserving and celebrating Ravensbourne’s history by collecting books, photos and other items featuring our current and former students, staff and alumni.
This includes a photo archive of thousands of images from previous years.
We’re always looking to expand this and happy to accept recommendations and donations.
If you have any photos then please let us know, by contacting us at [email protected] .
There are a number of study spaces in the Library you can bring your device with you or use the open access PCs and Macs.
These are available to access during building opening hours Monday - Saturday.
E: [email protected] T: 020 3040 3767

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/print-shop:
Our Print Shop team will help you with all your printing needs.
Whatever the size or material you want to work with, we can help.
Bring your ideas up to scale with our large format printer and create printed designs for fabrics or textiles with our screen printing facilities.
Our in-house Print Shop is available for all our students to use, allowing you to access a professional printing service.
Whether you are working with A6 postcards, A5 flyers or large format posters from A2 up to A0 size, our Print Shop can accommodate any sized project.
We can help you work with:
Print all manner of bright and bold posters, graphic prints, zines and graphic elements with our in-house risograph printer.
Print large graphics or designs onto rolls of paper to create original marketing, branding and advertising pieces.
Whether you are a graphic designer, fashion promotion or advertising student, the bigger your ideas the better with our large format printer.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/materials-library:
Advances in the technology are paving the way for the creation of new and innovative materials that push the limits of design.
To keep our students at the very forefront of this evolution, Ravensbourne’s Materials Library provides a tactile playground for students to experiment and play with different textures and materials.
To support students with their research and projects, our Materials Library includes a vast encyclopaedia of samples.
The library is curated by Material ConneXion, a business that introduces brands to the latest material innovations.
Students have access to an array of materials that are both relevant to their courses and reflect current trends in design and manufacturing.
Students and staff can browse through samples of materials in the physical collection for inspiration, material ideas and applications.
The library hosts over 1,500 material samples for further research and provides access to the Material ConneXion database.
The database has information on more than 7,500 materials and design processes in a variety of fields of design.
Over 40 new materials are added to the database collection every month.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/further-education-accommodation:
When it comes to accommodation near Ravensbourne university, our further education students are spoilt for choice.
We have partnered with a wide range of providers to help find the right housing choice for you

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate-accommodation:
Register Here
From cosy cluster flats to stylish suites and everything in between - when it comes to student accommodation, Ravensbourne undergraduates are spoilt for choice

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/postgraduate-accommodation:
Postgraduate students can choose from a wide range of stylish housing options near the university, as well as private renting or alternative accommodation.
When choosing accommodation, Postgraduate students should be mindful of the length of contract and the start and end dates.
Most student accommodation providers offer 51 week contracts starting mid September.
Please make sure that your contract covers the dates of your course.
This may require you to extend your contract and you will have to negotiate this with the provider directly.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/accommodation/renting-privately:
Private housing options for foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/accommodation/guarantors:
Guarantors are required by most accommodation providers.
A guarantor is a person who agrees to pay rent or damages if the tenant does not make payment.
For students, this is often parents or guardians, but this can be difficult for international students as most accommodation providers require a guarantor to be UK-based.
Ravensbourne University London has partnered with Housing Hand , the UK's leading guarantor service.
We have arranged a preferential price for all UK and International Ravensbourne University students.
This is the equivalent to 5.5% of annual rent on a subscription basis or 5% of annual rent when paid as an upfront fee.
To find out more about the service and to apply, visit the dedicated Ravensbourne University link on the Housing Hand website.
Please note:
It is often difficult for care leavers and estranged students to find someone who is willing to act as a guarantor when booking accommodation.
It is an equal challenge to provide a co-signer when booking with a guarantor provider like Housing Hand and to find the fee for the service.
As part of our pledge to support our care leavers and estranged students, we are working in affiliation with Housing Hand to offer a free, no co-signer required, guarantor service to qualifying students.
To find out more about this service, please contact [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/further-education-fees-and-funding:
Tuition fees and the range of financial support available is different for home, European Union or international learners - if you're not sure where you fit in, visit the UKCISA website for more information.
We know studying can be expensive and students sometimes find themselves in unexpected hardship, so we have a range of financial support packages designed to help learners who are struggling with money.
We're here to help, so please complete this enquiry form choosing 'Fees and funding' as the main subject of enquiry.
Students starting in 2025/26:  £0
Please note that Home students must have a score of 4 of higher in GCSE (or equivalent) Maths and English Language to be eligible.
Students starting in 2025/26:  £5,421 An Advanced Learner Loan is available to cover the fees of this course.
Students starting in 2025/26:  £5,421 An Advanced Learner Loan is availabl e to cover the fees of this course.
Students starting in 2025/26: £14,500
For international students internally progressing from FE to UG courses, the cost of the Foundation Diploma course will be reimbursed over the three years of their undergraduate course.
The discount applies for the three years of the undergraduate course and will not be applied to any repeat years.
International students requiring a CAS letter to obtain a visa are required to pay a deposit before a CAS can be issued.
The CAS deposit payment will be 60% of your total tuition fee (this will also be submitted as your tuition payment for the first semester).
Students starting in 2025/26:  £3,928 (Special approval from the Funding Agency is required for each student)
Students starting in 2025/26:  £3,928
An Advanced Learner Loan is available to cover the fees of this course.
Students starting in 2025/26:  £3,928
Home students internally progressing from FE to UG courses at Ravensbourne are eligible to receive the Internal Progression Award of £500.
You can pay your fees via the following options:
Through an Advanced Learner Loan (Home students over 19 years of age).
OR
Full payment on enrolment by:
Payment by Instalments: (available to Home Students only and additional fees may apply)
Instalment options are available for both new and returning students.
Payments can be made by:
Payments should be made as directed in formal documentation, such as an offer letter, invoice or statement, if you do not have this information to hand please email [email protected] to request a payment link and include your name and Student ID number.
In all cases payments must be made via Convera or TransferMate , Ravensbourne no longer accepts direct bank transfers.
For a step by step guide on how to pay using TransferMate, please visit the International tuition fees page.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate-fees-and-funding:
Currently reading: How can I pay my fees?
While at university you'll have two main costs - tuition fees and living costs.
The main types of finance are tuition fees and maintenance loans (which will have to be paid back) and grants and bursaries (which do not have to be paid back).
Home students
Overseas students
2025/26 academic year:
Check the Course list below for non-classroom based and classroom based courses.
If you have questions relating to fees, please contact us.
BA (Hons) 3D Animation with IFY BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design with IFY BA (Hons) Animation with IFY BA (Hons) Architecture with IFY BA (Hons) Character Design and Concept Illustration with IFY BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation with IFY BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management with IFY BA (Hons) Games Art with IFY BA (Hons) Games Design with IFY BA (Hons) Games Development with IFY BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures with IFY BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture with IFY
BSc (Hons) Business Management with IFY BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion with IFY BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing with IFY
Students may pay us through a tuition fee loan (for eligible Undergraduate Home students only).
Check your eligibility for governmental student finance
Payment options
TransferMate (Foreign Currency Exchange Service) - for those students holding funds in a foreign currency.
New students going to university or college in September can usually apply for their student finance from February/March in the year their course is due to start.
New students should follow these three easy steps to make sure they get their money in time for the start of their course.
1.
Visit the SFE student finance zone Before they apply, students should look at the range of resources SFE have on their student finance zone to find out what they can get and how to apply.
2.
Register online The quickest and easiest way to apply is online at www.gov.uk/studentfinance .
3.
Fill in the application Students don’t need a confirmed place at university.
They can use their preferred choice of course and simply update the details online if they need to.
Continuing students will be contacted by SFE to prompt them to apply in due course.
The Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) no longer provides funding to Higher Education Institutions to teach students who are studying for a qualification that is equivalent to, or lower than, a qualification which they have already achieved.
Please note that public funding for courses will not be available to the following categories of students:
If you fall into any of the following categories, ELQ classification does not apply:
Follow the links below to find information about international tuition fees, scholarships and bursaries and applying to Ravensbourne:
Now that the United Kingdom has officially left the European Union (EU), there are some changes to your status and rights as an EU student wishing to live and study in the UK.
Below is some helpful information on what that means for you as an EU national.
Citizens of the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland who were living in the UK on or before 31 December 2020 can apply to the EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS).
The EUSS means citizens of the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland will be able to stay and continue to work, study and access benefits and services such as NHS healthcare broadly on the same basis as they currently do.
It is free to apply.
If you want to stay in the UK you’ll have until 30 June 2021 to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme.
Thankfully, you can apply with any smartphone using their online app.
EU nationals that have arrived in the UK before 31st December 2020 have until 30th June 2021 to apply for the EUSS.
Those that arrive after 31st December 2020 will need to apply for a student visa under the new Points Based System (PBS).
More information can be found on the UK Government website about the EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) and the Student Visa and Points Based System (PBS) .
You can also use the government’s Visa Questionnaire to check your own personal circumstances.
If you are an Irish national, Brexit will not change your status as Irish nationals are automatically deemed to hold settled status in the UK.
This means you are not required to do anything as a result of Brexit and you would be eligible for Student Finance subject to meeting the normal eligibility requirements.
The process for determining your Fee status and Financial eligibility is determined by a number of factors.
Those students who are currently living in the UK who are from the EEA or Switzerland and have Settled status are eligible for ‘Home’ fee status and tuition fee/maintenance loan support with 3+ years’ residency.
Those students who are currently living in the UK who are from the EEA or Switzerland with Pre-settled status and 3+ years’ residency in the UK, Gibraltar, EEA and Switzerland are also eligible for ‘Home’ fee status and tuition fee/maintenance loan support.
Our Admissions team will be able to assess your tuition fee status during the application process.
Further information can be found on the following websites:
Gov.uk contains extensive information, advice and guidance on coming to study in the UK.
This is also where you would start your application for either the EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) or a Student Visa
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) offers advice for international students in the UK
Universities UK (UUK) is the Higher Education sector’s representative body, providing guidance for university staff and students
For any additional queries, please get in touch with us.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-fees-and-funding:
Studying for a postgraduate degree is a serious investment in your future, both in time and money.
Learn about our fees and financial support packages below.
If you would like to apply or have any questions, please get in touch using our online enquiry form .
Please note : Tuition fees and the range of financial support available are different for home, European Union or international students.
If you're not sure where you fit in, visit the UKCISA website for more information.
Please find more information about the discounts available and applying to Ravensbourne below:
Instalment options are available to those students with Home fee status.
For a step by step guide on how to make a payment visit the International tuition fees page.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/undergraduate-bursaries-and:
In addition to any government loans you may be eligible for, Ravensbourne University London has a limited amount of bursaries and scholarships for undergraduate students.
This financial support has been designed to assist in the costs of travel, meals and/or course equipment.
Due to restricted funding, and a large number of eligible students, our financial support is limited and is subject to change.
We strongly advise all prospective students to consider all the costs of study including accommodation, travel, equipment, and sustenance whilst undertaking their course and to have alternative means of funding such as part-time work and/or savings.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/student-life/support-ravensbourne/jobs-and-careers/ravensbourne-job-service:
Welcome to Ravensbourne job service, the official jobs portal for Ravensbourne students, graduates and alumni looking for work opportunities
The Ravensbourne Job Service is a portal that helps industry post new work opportunities ranging from full and part-time roles, temporary and freelance work, paid internships and work placements.
This is provided in partnership with Job Teaser.
Staff should select 'staff' as their course.
Employers should consider whether opportunities can be offered as a remote working opportunity and that all positions comply with Public Health England advice during the outbreak.
If you're an employer, student or graduates and would like to know more about The Ravensbourne job service we hope these FAQs will answer any questions you might have.
If you find an opportunity you would like to undertake, apply for it straight away.
Employers do not always stick to the closing date that they have stated.
They often remove adverts early if they receive a lot of responses in just a few days so it is best to get in early.
The simple answer is yes.
They have contacted us because they know that our talent pool is strong and they are looking for Ravensbourne people.
Get brave and apply now.
Unpaid work trials are illegal in the UK.
It is unlawful for an employer to ask you to take part in one as part of a recruitment process or to assess your suitability for a role.
We do not knowingly advertise vacancies that ask you to undertake an unpaid work trial.
Please contact us and let us know if you are asked to take part.
We don't advertise any unpaid or expenses only opportunities that last longer than 4 weeks to students and none what-so-ever for graduates.
While we screen every opportunity before advertising it , sometimes an advert that looks genuine turns out to be a scam.
It is your responsibility to research companies before applying for any vacancies we advertise.
If you are suspicious of any employers please contact us at [email protected] to report your concerns.
Do not apply for any positions that ask you to pay an application fee and contact us if a vacancy we have advertised asks you to do so.
For more information and advice about recruitment scans, visit the Safer Jobs website .
Vacancies only stay up online until the closing date.
So make sure you print the details of any vacancies you apply for in case you get an interview and need to access the job spec.
Employers tell us that the applications they receive often include poor spelling and grammar.
You must proof read your application, or ask a friend to read it before sending it.
Balance your financial needs with your academic workload.
It is recommended that full-time students work between 10 and 15 hours a week during term time to balance academic workload.
International students have restrictions in the number of hours they can work.
Please read the section on Working, jobs and Penions on the DirectGov website .
In order to attract employers to you and your profile, you need to make sure your profile is skills based and accurately reflects what you can do , not what you want to do in industry.
Your personal profile is not the place to be humble; it is your chance to be noticed and tell the potential employer exactly who you ‘really’ are and what you can do for them.
But please, do not make the mistake of going ‘over the top’ and give the impression to the prospective employer that you’re either arrogant or simply too good to be true.
An excellent personal profile must be:
Include work that you are proud of and that reflects the skills that you have learnt at Ravensbourne.
Make sure that the work is easy to understand for the viewer and remember you can update it as many times as you like.
Some courses are not as relevant to the portfolio section on your profile.
In particular the broadcast technology students and graduates.
You will still need a profile in order to view work opportunities but can leave that part blank.
Ravensbourne Agency only advertises volunteer opportunities if they are for a registered charity and remember we also do advertise unpaid work experience that lasts up to 4 weeks for students only.
The benefits of volunteering for a charity are enormous to you and the community.
The right match can help you find friends, reach out to the community, learn new skills, and even advance your career.
You can build on your existing talents by seeing a project through from the beginning to the end.
These might include refreshing a website, making films, a marketing campaign and a design brief.
Volunteering can also help to give you a sense of purpose, develop your communication skills and make you a happier person.
If an employer contacts you through the Ravensbourne Agency for a work opportunity that is not advertised through the Ravensbourne Agency then please advise the Careers ands Industry Liaison team.
You need to ensure that the work opportunity is genuine and adheres to our Terms & Conditions.
If you have any concerns at all please contact [email protected] to discuss further.
ACAS : Offer General help, advice and support for workers providing independent advice on rights for part-time workers, employment contracts and holiday pay.
There Helpline is 08457 474747.
Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) : CAB advice helps people resolve issues relating to benefits, housing, legal, discrimination, employment and immigration.
Some offices also provide email advice.
Visit the CAB website and find your local office by searching under the 'Find your local bureau' option.
Trade Unions : The Trade Union's main aim is to protect and advance the interests of its members in the workplace.
Most trade unions are independent of any employer.
Trade Unions can help you to negotiate agreements with employers on pay and conditions.
They can also provide legal and financial advice and help with resolving disputes.
Direct Gov National Minimum Wage : If your employer is paying you less than Minimum Wage you should contact the Pay and Work Rights helpline on 0800 917 2368.
Or visit the DirectGov website for more information about who can claim the Minimum Wage.
Own It : Own It offers free intellectual property advice for London’s creative people.
This includes basic support through to online resources and surgeries with intellectual property lawyers.
Design and Artists Copyright Society (DACS) : DACS is the copyright society for the visual arts.
Membership of DACS will help you manage your copyright in the UK and overseas.
Services include help with negotiation of fees and collecting fees on your behalf.
The Health & Safety Executive (HSE) : The HSE provides information on workplace health and safety information along with expert advice and guidance.
The Suzy Lamplugh Trust : The Suzy Lamplugh Trust provides practical support and personal safety guidance to help people develop skills and strategies for staying safe in the workplace.
The Commission for Equality and Human Rights : The Commission have a statutory remit to promote and monitor human rights.
They also protect, enforce and promote equality across age, disability, gender, race, religion and belief, pregnancy and maternity, marriage and civil partnership, sexual orientation and gender reassignment.
HMRC - Working in the UK : Here you will find information about what you need to do before you start work as an International.
It also tells you about the documents you’ll need, how you pay tax and National Insurance and where you can get help.
HM Revenue & Customs : For information about registering as self-employed and completing your tax return.
National Association of College and University Entrepreneurs (NACUE) : NACUE is a fast-paced, grassroots charity that supports and represents student-led enterprise societies and young entrepreneurs to drive the growth of entrepreneurship in Universities and Colleges across the UK.
Student Services aim to provide students and graduates with access to appropriate work opportunities, internships and work experience.
We do our best to verify the legitimacy of such provision; in particular we will not post anything that is shown to be in contravention of UK law.
However we are not able to guarantee the final authenticity of individual opportunity adverts or other posted information.
We would urge students and graduates to carry out their own checks.
Applications to any adverts posted on this site are made at your own risk and we cannot be held responsible for any costs or damages incurred.
If you have any questions or concerns about information posted on our site please contact us so we can act appropriately.
If you are working on a freelance basis, it is your responsibility to notify HMRC and to check if you need public liability insurance cover.
This article on Becoming Freelance may be useful.
We are happy to advertise genuine job or internship opportunities that comply with UK Employment Legislation and the Ravensbourne Equal Opportunities Policy .
This service is free for employers, industry professionals and recruitment agencies who are recruiting directly for their company or their client’s company.
We can only advertise direct opportunities for employment on the Agency and not other kinds of opportunities, such as, exhibiting opportunities or competition briefs.
Please contact [email protected] if you have a different opportunity to advertise to our students and or graduates.
We do advertise volunteering positions for registered charities.
Please ensure that you state your registered charity number on the work opportunity copy that you submit.
The Ravensbourne job service is not the correct place for setting student projects at Ravensbourne.
If you are interested in offering a project to a group of students please contact us on [email protected]
The Ravensbourne job service does not offer this service.
All opportunities must be advertised in the interest of equal opportunities .
Please make sure you job opportunity copy accurately reflects the skills you are searching for and you will attract the correct applicants.
We will only advertise the contact details that you add to your profile copy.
All contact details will be recorded for our own office information.
Please refer to our Ravensbourne Privacy Policy for details of how we may use your contact details.
All new submissions are dealt with in the order we receive them and due to the volume of new opportunities we receive each day, we cannot offer an express service for urgent adverts.
You can remove your advert early by amending the closing date to the date you wish it to be removed or you can email [email protected] to ask for it to be taken down.
The National Minimum Wage from April 2017 is £7.05/hour for 21 to 24 and £7.50/hour for 25 and over.
The amount you offer to pay should take into account the level of experience you expect applicants to have.
Unpaid opportunities may may be advertised to last no longer than four weeks in duration.
Discretion may also be applied to unpaid opportunities by Ravensbourne staff before they are made live on the Ravensbourne job service.
Exceptions are applied to opportunities advertised with registered charities or placements that form part of the compulsory placement module for Fashion undergraduate courses, both of which may be advertised as ongoing unpaid opportunities.
For enquiries about your account or to discuss using The Agency contact us: E: [email protected] To discuss opportunities you have available or how Ravensbourne could work with you then please contact our Industry Liaisons Team
Please note all profiles are manually approved and could take up to 24 hours to approve during the working week.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/counselling:
The Student Counsellor Service offers free skilled and confidential help to Ravensbourne students experiencing difficulties with their studies or in their personal lives.
Counselling can assist you in coping with a range of issues including:
Counselling can help you to become more resourceful and effective in your responses to challenges or difficulties and to bring about the sort of changes you want in your life.
We offer time limited counselling which could be up to six sessions.
If you would like more information about our counselling services and how to access support, please e-mail the Wellbeing Team or Student Services .
If you are distressed and need to talk to someone, we have the following out of hours support contacts available to you:
Nightline for confidential listening and practical information (term time only), call: +44 (0)207 631 0101.
The Samaritans for support at anytime, night or day, Free Helpline call: 116123.
Contact: The NHS for your local A&E department or Hospital Walk in Centre, call the Helpline on 111.
Your GP surgery for details of their out of hours service cover .
For all other emergencies, call 999.
You may also find the following links useful:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/students-union:
What we do:
Students can get involved with the decision-making process of the University, by becoming an elected Sabbatical Officer, (Full time President and Vice President), Part time officers of the student union and Student Academic and Activities Representatives (StAAR Academy)
For more information on student life, visit Ravensbourne Student Union https://www.ravesu.co.uk/welcome/union/
or email: [email protected]
For me it was always about building a sense of community and feeling like a family, and I wanted to bring that to Ravensbourne.”
Adam Abouzanad , Society President
We care about your career at Ravensbourne - so we're here to guide you as you decide where to go from here.
Each of our course clusters has a dedicated student liaison officer to give you careers advice and information about events and opportunities in your area of study.
We also offer learning support and development with study skills, specialist tutoring and mentoring to keep you motivated and on-track.
We aim to ensure that disability and learning difficulties are not barriers to the selection of students, keeping any discussions entirely separate from the academic decision of the offer of a place.
And our Student Services team is also there to provide a listening ear and point you in the right direction for counselling if you're having personal issues.
Find us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter .
We're here to help, so please complete this enquiry form choosing 'Students' Union' as the main subject of enquiry.
We’re a society for anyone interested in films and film discussion.
On a twice monthly basis we get together to watch movies and talk about them, often over snacks and drinks.
We also place a big emphasis on showing each other’s work, creating an atmosphere of critique and collaboration.
Furthermore, we like to take the society off-campus, going out into London for film trips and food nights.
Whether you’re a casual filmgoer or a hardcore cineaste, this is the society for you!
We are a group of students with different footballing abilities who meet every week to have fun kick around, to meet new people and have a laugh.
There is also an opportunity to join Ravensbourne Athletic Football club (RAFC).
The official 11 aside team of the university where we play in a Sunday league division.
So, if you love playing football come along this is the society for you.
The Ravensbourne Politics Society is here to help you learn about the important issues of our time, directly from world-leading politicians, diplomats and the activists who shape them, while also creating the opportunity for you to participate in student debates.
The Ravensbourne Language Society is for students who are either bilingual/ cultural or who would like to learn about different languages and cultures from their fellow students.
We host activities such as games nights, movie nights, and other social learning activities.
The society is open for anyone who would like to expand their knowledge on different cultures, and for those who would like to teach their languages and cultures to others.
We exist to provide a hub for students of African and Caribbean origin or descent to come together and contribute their skills, share ideas, knowledge, cultures and build our future together.
RCC is a makers club focusing on DIY and making projects.
The club is aiming to release creativity and brings together Ravensbourne's makers.
Previous experience is not required and you can bring your own ideas in.
This is a society for those that identify as part of the LGBTQIA+ community, or anyone that supports the community, to come along and enjoy interacting with like-minded people.
We intend to do activities related to the community and act as a support group.
We are a society based around sharing the best stories.
Whether short for m/long form, drama/podcast, fact or fiction - we want to tell the stories you want to hear and be a part of the wider content creation community by being a part of The National Student Television Association ( NASTA ).
Whether you're wanting to learn tech or just have the next best idea and want to be apart of a team to make that a reality, then this is for you!
As the Ravensbourne Islamic Society we strive to build a strong community of Muslims who can represent the values of Islam on campus.
We aim to provide: a great sense of kinship, a comfortable place to practice, regular activities to engage with our members and all the while encouraging the practice of our religion, Islam.
Family like society that talk about basketball, go out and get to know each other along side having game days and playing against other universities.
A place for students of all backgrounds to meet and explore who Jesus is for themselves.
A place to learn basic coding.
With no prior experience required.
A network of student volunteers, that strives to get Ravensbourne students actively involved in volunteering projects for the betterment of our community.
People volunteer for all sorts of different reasons: a desire to gain broader experience, learn new skills, develop existing skills, make a difference in the community, or have fun.
We are looking for both students who have never volunteered before as well as those who have.
A society that embraces an exciting new chapter coming to study at Ravensbourne University London.
We know it can be exciting but also daunting and scary but the international students society is here to support you as you settle into student life and most importantly to help you make new friends on campus.
We want to foster an environment where international students can build relationships and network with individuals from all around the world with the aim to create a mindset that promotes awareness, inclusivity, and acceptance of different cultures and opinions.
From regular socials, weekend trips, language classes to cultural evenings, there are plenty for you to do.
We will be hosting small events and animal rights film nights as well as debates, cooking workshops and street activism.
We have an open-door policy, anyone can join whether you are a Veggie or Not.
The more diversity the more we can learn from each other.
We teach dance classes and work together to create dance routines with music suggestions from everyone.
As people who used to dance, we wanted to create a club for people to give it a go and see where the competitions and performances take us.
Our society is all about expressing our culture and having fun, this includes all our festivals, events, shows and its all about pure vibes.
This will include : Eid events, Holi, Food sales, Bollywood nights, Diwali events, Garba, cricket, football and so many more events which we can create together.
We’re showing Ravensbourne how us South Asians do it!
A place for anyone who enjoys video games to come hang out (through both a Discord server and in-person events) - whether it’s to play games causally or competitively, discuss things like the programming, art, and music involved in games, and just generally, meet others with a common passion!
Are you interested in dance?
Here we embrace all styles & interests.
We accept all, no matter if you’re beginner or advanced.
Expect a lot of good energy & vibes from our events!
For East Asians to come together and make new friends.
For internationals from Asia, we’ll make you feel more at home.
A society where all Kpop fans in Ravensbourne can come together as one and dance, sing and discuss anything related to kpop!
Our society is a social group aiming to bring people around Ravensbourne together who all share one interest.
Our main activities include screenings, events, discussions and competitions.
Architecture is one of the most dynamic creative fields out there.
In this society you can expect to learn more about our city and the world of architecture and interiors through site visits, talks and workshops that will benefit students from any course within Ravensbourne.
People will learn the fundamental and intermediate levels of boxing.
We play on Wednesdays from 3 -5pm at Poplar Baths Leisure Centre, £3 per person.
This society will be bringing Latino students together to represent our cultures through gatherings and hosting Latin events in the University.
People who are interested in Latin culture can learn more and celebrate with us.
Music production and networking in all genres.
Students with any level of experience in crochet will come together and work on a variety of different crochet projects.
There will be tutorials as well as working days where students will have time to work on personal projects or a group project.
A DJ society where students will be able to express themselves through music and DJing.
It’s open to both experienced and inexperienced people who are into communicating through BPMs.
Teaching sessions and mixtapes sessions will take place once a week/once every two weeks.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/disability-support:
The Student Services team is the central point of contact for students who wish to discuss any requirements in relation to a disability.
These include:
If you have not already done so, you can declare a disability at any time during your course.
We would advise you to do this as early as possible, to ensure that the Student Services team has the best opportunity to arrange and co-ordinate any support requirements you may have.
If you would like to know more about Student Services policies and procedures relating to supporting disabled students, please see the pages below
Disabled students may or may not wish to share information about their disability with their course tutors.
In order for academic staff to be aware of any disabilities or adjustments required, we ask the student to sign a consent to share form.
Whilst this not compulsory, it is in the student's interest for the appropriate staff to be aware of any support requirements.
For enquiries or appointments with the Student Support team, contact us via the information desk on level 3 in R1.
T: +44 (0) 203 040 3501 E: [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/alumni/educator-and-wellbeing-coach-tor-njamo-his-ravensbourne-journey:
If anyone could best describe the Ravensbourne experience, it would be Tor Njåmo.
After arriving in London from his home country of Norway in 2012, Tor spent six years studying at Ravensbourne; first completing a Bachelor's Degree in Web Media and then going on to complete an MA in Social Innovation and a PGCert in Teaching and Learning in Creative Courses.
He was also the president of the Ravensbourne Student Union (RSU).
After graduating, Tor then returned to teach at Ravensbourne as a lecturer.
He covered subjects such as business development, content, layout design and branding and design thinking and taught across multiple courses including Fashion and Digital Film Production.
Nowadays, Tor works as the Senior Coach and Trainer at Decoded , a technology provider and eductor with offices across London, New York, Sydney, Amsterdam and Hong Kong.
He is also a Spiritual and Wellbeing Coach and the host of his own podcast Reflekt , which explores different well-being practices, in particular focusing on meditation.
Here, Tor speaks to Videographer Jack Brown about his experiences of being part of the Ravensbourne community and gives practical advice to students preparing to start their university journey.
Tor talks about the powerful connection he felt towards Ravensbourne and how his time here enabled him to progress as a designer.
Many of the skills he learnt while at Ravensbourne he still uses every day in his role as Senior Coach and Trainer.
Tor discusses how he initially got to hear about Ravensbourne, and why it ended up being the only university he applied to.
With Ravensbourne recently achieving a 93% satisfaction rate for postgraduate study, Tor discusses why he thinks Ravensbourne ranks so high.
Tor contemplates the impact that coronavirus and remote learning has had on the overall student experience across the world.
Tor discusses how Ravensbourne prepares students for getting a job in the industry.
Tor considers what he would say to anyone thinking of studying at Ravensbourne.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters:
We are pleased you are joining us and look forward to meeting you on campus.
Here you'll find important information about your enrolment, first week, and helpful tips being a successful student.
There are a number of steps required to complete the enrolment and onboarding process – we’ve pulled together all the information you need in an easy step-by-step process.
Starting in September 2025?
Further education students: Your First Week starts from Monday 8 September
International students: International Welcome Week starts from Tuesday 9 September
Higher education students: Your First Week starts from Monday 15 September
Please check your Course Welcome Information page for full details of when you need to attend.
If you are having any issues with the enrolment process please email us or attend one of our online drop-in sessions.
These will take place on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1.00pm - 2.00pm UK Time.
Attendees will join the lobby area of the meeting and will be invited in as quickly as possible.
Please bear with us if there is a short wait.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/activate-your-student-it-account:
Complete the set up of your new student University IT account.
You must complete all steps in this process to be able to use the Ravensbourne's IT systems, including Canvas, our online learning environment.
Shortly after completing online enrolment , you will receive an email to your personal address informing you that your Ravensbourne IT account has been created.
(this would have been sent to the personal email address you registered with).
Search your emails for the subject: Ravensbourne User Account Details or you can search your emails for the 9number printed on your student ID card .
If you haven't received your Ravensbourne User Account Details and it's been 5 days since you've completed online enrolment , please let us know as soon as possible.
Do not try to sign in or use these apps just yet - Just have them downloaded.
Now that you have download the three apps above, please complete the steps below in order
Visit our MFA page for the step by step guide and video guide.
Once complete, return to this page and complete STEP 2
After activating your account, go to the Outlook app and follow the steps below based on your device type...
For iOS (Apple)
For Android:
You now have access to Student emails on your phone.
To learn more about how to use Outlook or to download it on other devices, visit the dedicated Outlook page on the IT Services SharePoint site .
You can use it to:
After activating your IT account, go to the Canvas student app .
To learn more or to get support visit the dedicated Canvas page on the IT Services SharePoint Site
That's it!
You are now ready to start using your IT account.
Regularly check your Ravensbourne email using the Outlook app or via the web.
It’s where you’ll receive key information from the university and your tutors throughout your time at Ravensbourne.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/fe/access-higher-education:
Congratulations and welcome to the Access to Higher Education Art and Design course at Ravensbourne University London!
This course will offer you the chance to explore and find your creative voice and give you the skills to take your next steps.
An exciting year lies ahead of you!
Annette Richardson , Course Leader
To help prepare you for the course please complete our Form Follows Function activity.
‘Form follows function’ is a key principle within design, that the outcome is informed by the purpose or function of the object.
Although the principle is most famously seen in architecture and 3D design, it can be applied across all design, for example, in lens-based media, games and animation, ensuring you are directing or guiding the audience as intended.
In fashion and visual communication, too it is a vital creative tool to help challenge and test design assumptions.
It’s also a consideration in industry to ensure that the design meets the demands of the brief.
Task:
Research ‘Form Follows Function’ to find examples (looking at the Bauhaus movement will be useful).
Make a note of these, including the designer, date and title.
Consider your own area of specialism, how could you apply this principle now you know more about it?
Make a note of your thoughts.
Sketch/ make your own version of ‘form follows function’ within your area of specialism: consider the intended purpose and try to use that to inform your decision-making.
Remember, it doesn’t have to be a totally serious intended purpose; you can be playful in your approach!
Record your work.
Try to answer the question of whether following ‘form follows function’ changed the way you work, and if so, how?
Stationery supplies: A4 or A3 hardback sketchbook with plain cartridge paper; a small notebook; a range of pencils and basic drawing materials such as charcoal, chalks; marker pens/felt pens, in a variety of colours; scissors, ruler, eraser, pencil sharpener, scalpel; masking tape; Pritt stick; paints, in a variety of colours;
Media supplies: camera or camera phone
Suitable storage for work: An A3 portfolio for transporting practical work e.g.
a Artcare Mapac A3 Art Project Carry Case
You must have your notebook and sketchbook for every studio session.
For Access students we do have laptops that you can borrow for teaching sessions.
If borrowing a computer you should ensure you have collected this before the session starts and arrive on time with the kit required.
Tuesday 9 September: 9.30am – 2.30pm, room 801
Thursday 11 September: 9.30am – 2.30pm, room 801
Your teaching starts in the week commencing Monday 15 September.
In semester one you will have two teaching days each week as follows:
Monday, 9.00am - 6.00pm, Room 806 - R1 building
Wednesday, 9.00am - 6.00pm, Room 806 - R1 building

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/fe/foundation-diploma-art-design:
Congratulations and welcome to the UAL Level 3 Foundation Diploma in Art and Design at Ravensbourne University London!
We hope that you are ready to work hard and try new things.
We are ready to help you to choose the pathway that both suits and challenges your artistic ambitions.
Aaron Smith , Course Leader
To help prepare you for diploma studies please complete our summer project brief: Bic Project - Empty Your Pen
Please see our Foundation Diploma kit list for basic and desirable kit.
You do not need to bring this with you to Welcome Week.
Please see below details of what group you've been allocated to based on your surname and course.
Group 1: Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Design & Media) - surnames A - D
Monday 8 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-805
Wednesday 10 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-805
Group 2: Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Design & Media) - surnames E - H and Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Media Production) - all students
Monday 8 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-804
Wednesday 10 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-804
Group 3: Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Design & Media) - surnames I - O
Monday 8 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-801
Wednesday 10 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-801
Group 4: Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Design & Media) - surnames P - Z
Tuesday 9 September:  9.30am - 2.30pm, R1-805
Thursday 11 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-805
Group 5: Foundation Diploma in Art & Design (Fashion and Textiles)  - all students
Tuesday 9 September:  9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-804
Thursday 11 September: 9.30am - 2.30pm, Room R1-804
All activities will take place at our main campus: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
If you’re an international student, it is important that you attend in this session to complete your enrolment before you go to your course induction.
Monday 8 September: 9.00am - 9.30am
Tuesday 9 September: 9.00am - 9.30am
Teaching for your course starts from Monday 15 September.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/architecture:
We are delighted that you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Architecture at Ravensbourne University London!
This course will allow you to explore and test your most exciting design ideas through project briefs that will engage with different aspects of our profession, whilst improving the communities and lives of those that we serve.
You will have the chance to share and celebrate your designs with other like-minded architecture, interior, and landscape creatives, starting your journey into this dynamic profession and beyond.
Luke Murray , Course Leader
A great way to kickstart yourself on our course is to follow our Ravensbourne Architecture account on Instagram.
This showcases some of our most recent activities and student projects for the world to see!
Professional knowledge – ways to get ahead!
There is lots to learn on this course, which is an amazing prospect – we are all still learning every day – so we suggest you engage with some or all the resources below to find out about the latest happenings and keep up to date with current knowledge:
RIBA – Education, CPD, and careers : Information on the stages to qualification and different ways to engage in Continued Professional Development.
RIBA Journal : Sign-up to receive weekly newsletter updates and regular briefings.
Dezeen : Online magazine providing daily updates on all things design, from buildings to materials.
ArchDaily : Online platform collecting new and innovative projects from around the world, celebrated in once place.
Sustainability
Sustainability is not just about our external environment and its resources but also incorporates wider society and the economy.
A few interesting links to get you engaged with current debates within the profession:
Architect’s Journal Climate Champions podcast
Timber Development UK : For all things timber related, a great resource to learn and connection with others.
RIBA Study Well : Sustainability is not just about the world around us but also includes you.
Download this free guide to help you balance your work, study and personal life.
Community
Make moves to connect with others within architecture and across the built environment, including other students across the world.
These links can help you to build your professional network early:
RIBA Student Membership : Providing specialist resources, learning and mentoring to help you on your journey through education into the profession.
StuCAN Network : Sign up to join the Climate Action Network and be involved to make change in our profession and the industry more widely.
Climate Framework : A global community for climate action across the built environment and academia.
To Scale : Insights into ways to brand yourself and succeed as an architecture student within a wider community.
Visit key buildings
London offers a diverse range of building types (size, volume, and function) for you to explore.
Open House Festival 2025 is taking place between 13-21 September throughout London, so please sign up and get on the list to visit some of the city’s most exciting works!
Sign up here
Aside from Open House, there are ample public and cultural buildings to explore.
Why not visit the following and have a go at sketching both outside and inside each of the spaces:
Somerset House
Royal Festival Hall
Hayward Gallery
National Theatre
Barbican Centre
TATE Modern
Be sure to make the most of all opportunities that are shared throughout the academic year.
We offer lots of events ranging from guest talks on Tuesday evenings (an excellent way to immerse yourself within architecture and related fields), practice visits, workshops, and external activities!
It is your chance to learn about the profession in more detail.
Remember, being in London, you also have the chance to explore exhibitions, talks, film screenings, and workshops every week, should you wish!
Platforms such as Art Rabbit and Seb’s Art List highlight all new and current exhibitions happening each week.
Drawing equipment
As this course engages in lots of drawing, making and creative activities, we have included a list of equipment to support your learning and for you to get ahead:
It is critical that you bring this equipment with you each week, so that you can work productively during the sessions.
Your sketchbook should be always kept with you, so that you can document ideas and thoughts as they arise – you should be comfortable carrying it.
It is an important part of your equipment, as it records the thinking process behind projects.
Tracing paper is also a critical tool to help with architectural drawing, design overlays and quick iterations by hand.
You may find a tracing paper roll useful - make an effort to store all your sketches safely (over time they will get damaged).
Other drawing equipment that you may find useful are marker pens in different colours, and a set square (45/45° or adjustable).
We also recommend an A2 portfolio case to ensure your work is kept safe.
Model-making equipment
Model-making is a key part of testing and experimentation in architectural design, and the following equipment will be needed.
You will receive more information on materials needed for model-making activities during the semester, but you can also start to obtain some of these to help kick-start your constructions:
Please see our laptop requirements .
Your laptop will become a very important tool to progress your learning, so it is an important piece of equipment, so please invest in a suitable device for your studies!
Your first week activities will be taking place on the following dates.
Tuesday 16 September: 10.00am – 4.00pm, room R1-507
Wednesday 17 September: 10.00am – 4.00pm, room R1-507
Address: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
In semester one you will have three teaching sessions each week between 9.00am – 6.00pm, Monday – Friday.
Once you have completed enrolment you can find out how to check your timetable here
Instagram: @ravensbourne_architecture

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/architecture-yr-0:
We are delighted that you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London!
Wednesday 18 September: 10.00am – 1.00pm, room 507
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 1.00pm, room 507
You will have three teaching sessions each week as follows:
Thursday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 507
Thursday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 507
Friday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 507

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/interior-design-evironment-architectures:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures at Ravensbourne University London.
This course will allow you to explore your creative and technical skills through the design of our natural and built environments in the context of the city.
You will have the chance to share, learn and celebrate your designs with other like-minded landscape, architecture and interior creatives.
Professional Knowledge
There is lots to learn on this course, which is an amazing prospect.
We are all still learning every day – so we suggest you engage with some or all the resources below to find out about the latest happenings and keep up to date with current knowledge:
Begin to connect and engage with others in the profession and other students around the globe.
These links are a great way to get started
British Institute Interior Design : Lots of resources related to interior projects to derive inspiration from.
To Scale : insights into ways to brand yourself and succeed as an architecture student within a wider community.
V&A Museum
It is your chance to learn about industry and different pathways in more detail.
You will receive more information on materials needed for model-making activities during the semester, but you can also start to obtain some of these to help kick-start your constructions:
Your laptop will become a very important tool to progress your learning, so it is an important piece of equipment, so please invest in a suitable device for your studies!
Due to the set up of your course it is not possible to share your timetable information prior to your enrolment.
If you have any questions ahead of joining us, our online drop-in sessions will take place on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1.00pm - 2.00pm UK Time, starting Friday 11 August through to Friday 30 September 2023.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/interior-design-evironment-architectures-yr-0:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London!
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am – 1.00pm, room R1-507
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 1.00pm, room R1-507
Thursday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 507 - R1 Building
Thursday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, room 507 - R1 Building
Friday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 507 - R1 Building

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/urban-landscape-architecture:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture at Ravensbourne University London.
You will have the chance to share, learn and celebrate your designs with other like-minded landscape, architecture and interior creatives.”
Professional knowledge - ways to get ahead!
The links below are a first point of contact to engage with education in architecture and to find out about the latest news in the industry.
It is encouraged to sign-up to gain access to resources.
Landscape Institute Journal : An online journal including the latest projects all focused on landscape design, public real
Landzine : A showcase of new landscape architecture projects from around the world, a great source of inspiration for ideas!
Dezeen : Online magazine providing daily updates on all things design from buildings to materials.
Make moves to connect with others within landscape architecture and across the built environment, including other students across the world.
Landscape Institute : A great resource for all things landscape
National Landscapes Association : Bringing together different voices with a position on landscape in the UK with a shared vision to celebrate the UKs natural beauty.
London offers a diverse range of building types and urban spaces for you to explore.
Aside from Open House, there are ample public and cultural buildings and landscapes to explore.
Royal Festival Hall – and the whole of the Southbank
It is your chance to learn about the built environment industry and pathways in more detail.
Laptop Requirements
Please see our laptop requirements document.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/urban-landscape-architecture-yr-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/business-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Business Management at Ravensbourne University London.
Dr Catherine Bedwei-Majdoub , Course Leader
Take a look at this page for important information about starting your course.
To get you going on your first semester, prepare to share your thoughts during the welcome week about the following:
There is no right or wrong answer.
We would just like to hear your thoughts about business.
In addition read the following articles:
You may also find it helpful to purchase a copy of the following book: Baarji, M.J.
(2023) Business Skills for the 21st Century .
London: SAGE
You must have a laptop to complete your course.
If you have any questions about what laptop you need please speak to your course team during your First Week.
Monday 15 September: 11.00am - 5.30pm, R1-604
Tuesday 16 September: 10.30am - 5.30pm, R1-604
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions each week between 9.00am – 6.00pm, Monday – Friday.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/business-management-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Business Management with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.
There are no pre-reading or pre-arrival tasks to complete ahead of Welcome Week.
Instead, please take some time to read through the resources on our preparing for university pages.
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am – 4.30pm, room R1- 607
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 4.30pm, room R2-201
R1 building: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
R2 building: Ravensbourne University London, 4 Appleby Yard, Soames Walk, London, SE10 0BJ
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 603
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 607
Thursday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 607

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-marketing:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing at Ravensbourne University London!
Samantha Sandilands , Course Leader
Take a look at the page below for important information about your course.
To help you prepare for starting the course please spend some time doing the following:
Read through the following blog posts from HubSpot:
https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/marketing-101
https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/marketing-plan-examples
In the first few weeks we will be looking at some of these points in more detail.
During induction you will be asked to work on a mini project in small groups, and this information will help you.
As you browse the internet and social media over the coming days and weeks, take some screenshots of any marketing examples you come across which you think are particularly good, or particularly bad.
We will have a look at them when you arrive at Ravensbourne.
Try to think about why you think they are good (or bad) and make some notes so you don’t forget!
Wednesday 17 September: 10.00am - 3.00pm, R1-604
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am - 3.00pm, R1-604
This semester you will have three teaching sessions.
Wednesday, 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room R1-606
Wednesday, 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room R1-606
Thursday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room R1-606

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-marketing-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.
Take a look below at the important information for our course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/3d-animation:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) 3D Animation at Ravensbourne University London.
Daniel Dalli , Course Leader
If you are studying BA (Hons) 3D Animation with Year 0 please go to the welcome information page for that course.
To help you engage with your subject and best prepare for the course please undertake the following:
Tasks
Optional Reading
You may also find it useful to purchase and start to familiarise yourself with the following key texts:
You will benefit from having the following equipment to support your studies.
If you have any questions, please speak to your course team during your First Week.
Monday 15 September: 9.30am - 4.30pm, room 903
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am - 4.30pm, room 903
In semester one you will have multiple teaching sessions each week between 9.00am – 6.00pm, Monday – Friday.
Vimeo: Ravensbourne Animation

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/3d-animation-yr-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Animation with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.
We’re excited to see the start of your journey towards a career in animation.
Bradley O'Neill , Course Leader
Monday , 9.00am - 4.00pm, room 904 - R1 Building
Tuesday , 9.00am - 4.00pm, room 102 - R1 Building
Instagram: @Ravensbourne_year0

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/advertising-brand:
Congratulations and welcome to BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design at Ravensbourne University London!
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant course of award-winning emerging talent.
Paula Williams , Course Leader
To help you prepare for your studies, find inspiration and get up to date with the latest industry news, please start by following us on Instagram @dad_rave and see what our students have been creating this year.
Read about our recent D&AD Award winning student projects:
Monotype: Voices from Afghanistan
HSBC: Go The Distance
Monotype: Up to Our Necks
Industry Knowledge
Sign up for the daily emails from these free websites and immerse yourself in what is going on in our industry at the moment:
uncommon.studio
creativereview.co.uk
itsnicethat.com
campaignlive.co.uk
the-brandidentity.com
dandad.org
marketingweek.com
thedrum.com
creativelivesinprogress.com
creative-conscience.org.uk
Get to know some of our Advertising and Brand Design course friends:
studioblup.com
sennep.com
bearlondon.com
jkrglobal.com
wolffolins.com
acceptandproceed.com
madethought.com
imagineneverland.com
bbccreative.co.uk
bbcstudioscreative.com
territorystudio.com
creative.sky
dnco.com
wearebulletproof.com
monotype.com
redbeecreative.com
stormbrands.co
thisaintrocknroll.com
motherlondon.com
vccp.com
20-something.com
deptagency.com
Watch this fascinating series of filmed conversations between branding legends Simon Aporva and Simon Dixon.
Advertising and Brand Design students feature as part of series three.
If you have time read one of the following books:
Congratulations, enjoy your summer and come in September with ideas and industry knowledge.
This course does not require specialist equipment, but a laptop is required.
IPads are useful to supplement your tool kit but they can't replace the requirement for a laptop in class.
Monday 15 September
ID card collection: 9.00am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-233
Wednesday 17 September
Course Induction: 9.00am – 4.30pm, room R3-233
R3 building address: 14 Pier Walk, London SE10 0ES
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 233
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 233
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 233
Instagram: @dad_rave

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/advertising-and-brand-design-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/animation:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Animation course at Ravensbourne University London.
We hope this will be the start of a fulfilling exploration into the world of animation!
Jenny Wright , Course Leader
If you are studying BA (Hons) Animation with Integrated Foundation Year please go to the welcome information page for that course.
Hello everyone!
To help you prepare for your studies here are some suggested activities for summer: 1.
Sketch, sketch, sketch!
Warm up your drawing muscles by observational drawing of anything and everything around you.
People, buildings, landscapes.
What can you see?
What inspires you?
Drawing will be a core skill in your practice at Ravensbourne and beyond.
Get inspired on Cartoon Brew and Skwigly which are fantastic websites with free shorts, news and articles about the industry!
Get reading .
You may wish to familiarise yourself with the following texts which introduce you to the idea of drawing for animation.
Look out for second hand copies online:
Sketching for Animation by Peter Parr Drawn to Life by Walt Stanchfield
Looking forward to meeting you all in September!
You must have a suitable laptop to complete your course.
You will not be able to successfully complete this course using a tablet device.
ID card collection: 9.45am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 10.15am - 4.30pm, room R3-231
Course Induction: 9.30am - 4.30pm, R3-231
R3 building address: 14 Pier Walk, London, SE10 0ES
Once you have completed enrolment y ou can find out how to check your timetable here

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/character-design-concept-art:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Character Design and Concept Art course at Ravensbourne University London!
We hope that this will be the start of an enriching journey towards a career in commercial arts and entertainment.”
Dr Louis Netter , Course Leader
To help prepare you for starting the course in September I suggest the following:
Drawing: G et drawing outside this summer.
Habitual practice with observational drawing will enable you to confidently begin your creative journey.
Reading (optional): You may wish to purchase and familiarise yourself with the following key texts (you may find well priced second hand copies online).
These texts will give you an idea of the critical understandings and imaginative possibilities in the field of Character Design and Concept Art.
Dynamic Anatomy by Burne Hogarth
The Movie Art of Syd Mead by Syd Mead and Craig Hodgetts
The Incal by Alexandro Jodorowsky and Moebius
Sketching for Animation by Peter Parr
ID card collection: 9.15am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 9.45am – 4.45pm, room R3-212
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-212
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 211
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 211
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 212

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-content-creation:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation at Ravensbourne University London!
Gurinder Hatchard , Course Leader
If you are studying BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation with Year 0 please go to the welcome information page for that course.
During your First Week we’ll be getting to know each other.
We’d love you to introduce yourselves with your own digital content.
This is Me - Introduction Video
Create a short video (under a minute) to introduce yourself to your classmates.
Your first name must be included somewhere in the video.
Please send the video before Sunday 14 September to [email protected] .
You might find it best to use a Wetransfer or GoogleDrive/OneDrive link.
Really looking forward to what you come up with!
You will need a smartphone with storage for photos/videos.
SD Card Reader
External Hard Drive (1TB)
If you are unsure if your current device meets the requirements please speak to your course team during your First Week.
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-232
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 232
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 232
Thursday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 232
Due to computer suite use on this course in some weeks classes will be in different rooms.
Once you have enrolled you can find out how to check your timetable here .
Instagram: @Rave_dcc

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-content-creation-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-photography:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (hons) Digital Photography course.
The entire course team are looking forwards to welcoming you into our supportive and creative community and working alongside you as you start your journey within your chosen career path.”
Geraint Cunnick , Course Leader
For our Welcome Week task please bring in a reference photograph on your phone or laptop that we will try and help you recreate in the studio – make sure this is a studio image that includes a model.
We will be discussing the reading lists for the year during Welcome Week, but if you wanted to starting looking at books around projects and ideas then I would suggest you look at: The Photographers’ Playbook , Fulford.
J, 2014, Aperture, New York Photography (portfolio) Second Edition, Ingledew J, 2103, Lawrence King, London In addition a good book that you might find useful as you prepare for university is:
The Arts Good Study Guide , Chambers.
E,  Northedge A, 2008, Open University Press, Milton Keynes
If you have any questions, please speak to your course team during Welcome Week.
You do not need to bring this equipment to welcome week unless specified.
Monday 15 September, 9.30am - 4.30pm, room 103
Wednesday 17 September, 9.30am - 4.30pm, room 103
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 103A/B Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 103A/B Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 103A/B
Instagram: @dgp_ravensbourne

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/graphic-design:
Congratulations!
We look forward to welcoming you to Ravensbourne Graphics.
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant community, and to start your journey of transformation together.
Mark Hudson , Course Leader
Please take some time to look at the following resources before you join:
01 READING
Obtain this book, look at the chapter headings and dip into the chapters that appeal.
An informative and uplifting read: Hello World: Where Design Meets Life - Alice Rawsthorn
02 FILMS
Check out the following motion pieces, which will give you some insight into how design issues can be visualised and discussed:
Procrastination: Johnny Kelly
Charles & Ray Eames: Powers of Ten
A Brief History of John Baldessari
You will not need to bring this equipment to Welcome Week.
- Black fineliner pens in a range of weights
- Good quality pencils for sketching
- Plastic eraser
- Marker pens
- Metal ruler
- Scalpel and blades (Swann Morton is recommended)
- A3 cutting mat
- Scissors
- Glue stick
- Paint brushes
- Sharpener
- Box/pencil case to hold tools
- Sketchbooks/ Notebooks
ID card collection: 9.30am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room R3-207
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-207
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 207
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 207
Thursday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 207
Instagram: @rv_grphcdsgn

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/illustration-communication:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication at Ravensbourne University London!
David Foldvari , Course Leader
As you begin to familiarise yourself with illustration culture, please bookmark and visit the following websites and blogs regularly to keep up to date with current industry movements and trends:
creativeboom.com
printmag.com
thedieline.com
behance.net/galleries/illustration
If you have any questions, please speak to your course team during your first week.
A4 sketchbook
Materials: Pencils / Eraser / Pens / Scissors / Masking Tape
If you are unsure if your current device meets the requirements please speak to us during your first week.
ID card collection: 9.45am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 10.15am – 5.00pm, room R3-230
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-230
You will have two teaching sessions each week as follows:
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 230
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 230
Tuesday, 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 212
Instagram: @raveillustration

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/motion-graphics:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Motion Graphics at Ravensbourne University London!
We hope that this will be the start of an important journey towards your chosen career alongside like-minded aspiring Motion creatives.”
Adrian Baxter , Course Leader
To help prepare you for the course and to form part of our welcome activities please undertake the following task:
Create a 12-second video clip highlighting one important and positive challenging moment in your life.
This might seem insignificant to others, but what is important, is that it is your own honest life history.
You can choose live-action video, sequenced photography or graphic elements such as typography, or mixed media.
This does not have to animate and can be simple.
Your experience is useful in Motion as it helps establish a unique voice to your work.
Professionals often ask “we want to see something we have never seen before”, and that something is often within us.
For this task you may like to read Feck Perfuction: Dangerous Ideas on the Business of Life by James Victore.
This book is a brilliant guide to unlocking creativity, curiosity and leveraging intriguingly quirky ideas for your future projects.
Please bring this with you to your first week: Drawing pens and pencils of your choice A5 or A4 plain sketchbook
You will need the following drawing equipment to support iterative idea generation.
ID card collection: 10.00am, Foyer - R1 Building, 6 Penrose Way, SE10 0EW
Course Induction: 10.30am – 5.00pm, room R3-209
Course Induction: 9.00am – 4.30pm, room R3-209
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 209
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 209
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 209
Instagram: @ravensbournemotion

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/product-design:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Product Design course at Ravensbourne University London!
Mathew Brown , Course Leader
Prior to starting the course take some time to look at the latest design news and innovations on the following magazines/websites.
We recommend you favourite/bookmark these to refer to throughout the course:
Core77 / Industrial Design Magazine + Resource
Design Week - online design magazine
Dezeen | architecture and design magazine
Home - Design Milk (design-milk.com)
Items required for teaching week 1:
The list below is very useful to have for model making as you progress on the programme (recommended – NOT essential)
The above items can be stored in your own personal locker in the Product Design studio space.
Peripherals
Computer mouse
Software
As a student studying at Ravensbourne, you will have free access to the following software – this includes remote usage from your own personal computer:
Monday 15 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room R2-101
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R2-101
All activities will take place at our R2 building: Ravensbourne University London, 4 Appleby Yard, Soames Walk, London, SE10 0BJ
In semester one you will have multiple teaching sessions each week as follows:
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R2 Building - room 101
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R2 Building - room 101
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R2 Building - room 101
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 5.00pm, R2 Building - room 001
Instagram: @ravensbourneproductdesign

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/ux-ui:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) UX/UI Design at Ravensbourne University London!
We eagerly anticipate guiding you through a fulfilling exploration into the dynamic world of User Experience and User Interface Design.”
Alyas Latif , Course Leader
To help prepare you for the course please purchase a copy of Universal Principles of UX: 100 Timeless Strategies to Create Positive Interactions between People and Technology (4), Rockport Universal.
Universal Principles of UX" by Irene Pereyra is a comprehensive guide to user experience design, offering 100 "timeless" strategies derived from over 15 years of real-world client projects.
Rather than a step-by-step technical manual, the book serves as a "philosophical anthology" that teaches readers how to think like a UX designer.
Organized into six categories (Consider, Empathize, Define, Research, Design, and Validate), each principle is presented with clear explanations, practical examples, and engaging visuals across a two-page spread.
It's a valuable resource for designers of all levels, emphasizing a strategic mindset and a deep understanding of human interaction with technology.
Task: Universal Principles of UX pairs clear explanations of each concept with visual examples of the ideas applied in practice.
The book is organized into six broad categories: Please reflect on the following principals below in your sketchbook with an example for each principal.
Please bring this with you to your first week along with: d rawing pens and pencils of your choice  and an A5 or A4 plain sketchbook.
Course Induction: 10.30am – 5.00pm, room R3-208
Course Induction: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R3-208
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 208
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R3 Building - room 208
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R3 Building - room 208

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/computer-science:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Computer Science at Ravensbourne University London!
We are excited to have you join us for three years of highly practical learning where you will gain cutting-edge skills aligned with the industry standards.”
Dr Nosheen Gul , Course Leader
As you prepare to board on this exciting academic journey, we have put together some fundamental pre-arrival reading and tasks to help you start with confidence and enthusiasm.
Semester One Module Preview
Software Design and Development: For this module learn basics of programming languages, such as:
Python : Check out the Python Official Documentation and try some basic exercises on platforms like Codecademy or Kaggle.
C#; You can start by reading the Microsoft C# Guide to understand its syntax and applications.
Computer Networks and Technology: This module will introduce you to the fundamental components of computer systems and how they interact.
Industry Knowledge and Exploring your Interest
To maximise the benefits of the cutting-edge skills you will acquire, it's crucial to stay informed about industry trends and explore your areas of interest within computer science:
Enjoy the rest of your summer!
As you get ready for September, we encourage you to nurture your curiosity and passion for technology.
Come with ideas, industry knowledge and a strong desire to learn.
It is important to have a laptop equipped with specific hardware and software to ensure optimal performance and compatibility with the course requirements.
Our recommended specifications are:
At the beginning of each semester, your tutors will guide you through the installation of the necessary software to ensure you fully utilise the features and tools required for your studies.
Tuesday 16 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R1-901
Thursday 18 September: 9.30am – 5.00pm, room R1-901

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/cyber-security:
Congratulations and welcome to the BSc (Hons) Cyber Security course at Ravensbourne University London!
We hope that this will be the start of an important journey towards your chosen career with like-minded, aspiring cyber security professionals.
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant student community!
Sonny Sardesai , Course Leader
The following activities will help prepare you for starting your course:
Recommended Reading:
These resources will help you start thinking like a security analyst to question systems, spot vulnerabilities and consider how to respond to emerging threats.
We’ll delve much deeper once you arrive, but for now, you can engage actively, explore curiously and begin building the mindset of a cyber professional.
Tuesday 16 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R1-M01
Thursday 18 September: 9.30am – 5.00pm, room R1-905
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room R1-903 - R1 Building
Friday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room R1-905 - R1 Building
Friday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, room R1-905 - R1 Building

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-art:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Art at Ravensbourne University London.
Oliver O’Keeffe , Course Leader
To help prepare your for the course please complete the following creative task and bring this with you to your First Week: Random Landscapes Project Brief
You will need: A5 sketchbook, pens, pencils and eraser.
If you have any questions on purchasing a laptop or whether your current device will be suitable please speak the course team during your First Week.
Monday 15 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room 902
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am – 5.00pm, room 902
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 901/904 - R1 Building
Thursday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room TBC
Thursday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, room TBC
Instagram: @ravegamesart

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-art-yr-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Art with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-design:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Design at Ravensbourne University London!
Rama Maccha , Interim Course Leader
To help you transition smoothly onto the BSc (Hons) Games Design course and prepare for the content ahead, we’ve outlined a few essential tasks.
These will support your understanding of key industry tools and introduce you to core concepts in storytelling, narrative design and the game development process.
Software to Install
Please ensure you install the following before the start of the course:
These tools will form an important part of your design workflow, from prototyping environments to visualising gameplay experiences.
Blender Practice
Familiarise yourself with Blender and basic 3D modelling basics.
A great starting point is the YouTube channel:
Narrative Research Task
Explore how storytelling is used to enhance player experience in modern games.
We recommend researching and analysing the narrative structure, character development and world-building in:
Consider how emotion, choice and environment contribute to the overall narrative experience.
Take notes on what engages you as a player and how these techniques might inspire your own design work.
Spending time with these resources will give you a strong foundation in narrative-driven game design and help you begin thinking critically about the storytelling potential of games.
Monday 15 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, room 905
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am - 5.00pm, room 905

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-development:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Development at Ravensbourne University London.
We hope that this will be the start of your adventure towards a career in the Games Industry.
Let’s make something Unreal.”
Carlos Bott , Course Leader
If you are studying BA (Hons) Games Development with Year 0 please go to the welcome information page for that course.
To help you transition smoothly onto the BSc (Hons) Games Programming course and prepare for the content ahead, we’ve outlined a few essential tasks for you to complete before you arrive.
Please download and install the following software that you’ll be using on the course:
Unreal 5.1
Unity3D 2022.3.6f1
Visual Studio 2022 Community Edition
Introduction to C++
Get to know or develop your knowledge of C++ t his site offers a useful introduction.
Monday 15 September , 10.00am - 5.00pm, room 904
Wednesday 17 September , 9.30am - 5.00pm, room 904
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 901A/B - R1 Building
Monday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, room 901A/B - R1 Building
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 901A/B/904 - R1 Building
Discord Rave Games Server: https://discord.gg/eCMCWySvRx

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-development-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Games Development with  Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/games-programming:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Games Programming at Ravensbourne University London!
Rama Maccha , Course Leader
These will support your understanding of industry tools and help you begin practising key skills in programming and 3D asset creation.
Software to Install:
Programming Practice:
We encourage you to begin learning the basics of programming using either C++ or C#.
Choose the language you’re most comfortable with or most interested in:
Blender Practice:
Familiarise yourself with Blender and 3D modelling basics.
Spending time with these tools and resources before the course begins will give you a solid foundation for your studies and a head start on your journey into gameplay programming.
If you are unsure if your current device meets the requirements please do speak to your course team during your First Week.
Monday 15 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, room 208
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am - 5.00pm, room 208
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 901A/B - R1 Building Monday, 2.00pm - 6.00pm, room 901A/B - R1 Building Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, room 901A/B and 904- R1 Building

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/fashion:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Fashion course at Ravensbourne University London!
The journey towards your chosen career will be guided by Fashion industry experts and shared with like-minded aspiring creatives.
Thida Hawkins , Course Leader
As a kick-starter to your new journey and to directly support you with your semester 1 modules, please complete the summer brief before your first week.
The brief will allow you to use and develop your art and design materials and techniques from your previous experiences.
Please use professional quality equipment and materials.
Brief: Ravensbourne Year 1 Fashion Summer Brief 2025-26
You may have also been emailed this brief via the email address you provided to admissions.
Inform yourself of developments within the fashion industry and topical or contemporary arts and culture.
Go to as many exhibitions, events and watch films as possible, keeping personal sketchbooks, collecting and documenting anything you've liked or disliked.
Always take every opportunity to engage with Fashion and the creative arts!
Please bring a notepad and some basic stationery to your first week sessions as you will need these for your induction activities.
You will need some ‘Essential Equipment’ to commence your timetabled sessions from Monday 22 September onwards and for your independent study.
You will use these items on a very regular basis throughout your studies and into your future careers.
It is advisable to purchase the best quality you can afford and keep everything organised and labelled in a box or bag.
Fashion Essentials Equipment list : Pattern Master, metric tape measure, pencils 2H/HB, awl, pattern notchers, tracing wheel, general purpose paper scissors, pattern drill, masking/magic tape, dressmakers pins, 10”-12” dressmakers shears (fabric), chalk pencil / erasable dressmakers pen, seam ripper / thread snips, embroidery scissors, magnetic seam guide.
You will also need ‘Sewing Room Pack’* consisting of bobbins, spools (essential) and specialist feet (optional) which is specifically for use with the industrial sewing machines we have on campus.
You may decide to start with the basics and acquire additional items to create a full professional kit from the start or build up as your knowledge and skills increase.
We have been working closely with a reputable local supplier, FCE London, for many years.
Their equipment is high quality and competitively priced with other suppliers and are the correct size for the machinery.
*A standard ‘bobbin case pack’ is included in the Rave Essentials and the premium ‘Rave sewing room pack’ is included in the Gold/Silver/Bronze.
FCE London: Ravensbourne University All Packs
FCE London: All student packs
If you already have, or have sourced your essentials equipment from elsewhere, a range of sewing room packs are also available separately.
FCE London will host a pop-up shop on campus during your scheduled times in your First Week.
You will be able to buy packs and individual items to take away with you (subject to availability) and/or place additional orders for delivery to the university.
The delivery address is stated on the FCE portal: Ravensbourne University, 6 Penrose Way, London SE10 0EW.
Advance orders include discounted delivery and will only be delivered to the specific university.
These will be available for collection in time for your timetabled classes in week commencing 22 September 2025.
If ordering individual items use the code ‘RAVE1018’ to receive a discount on our other items.
The 10% discount will not apply to the already discounted pack prices or special offers.
Art and design materials: Additional art and design materials such as sketchbooks, paper and drawing media will be required throughout the course.
If purchasing sketchbooks in advance, these should be good quality cartridge paper A3 landscape and NOT spiral bound / tear out perforated pages.
Further details will be provided during your First Week.
Not essential, as these resources are within the university.
However, if you decide to continue with independent study off campus you may find it useful to have:
Mini mannequin: Your own mini mannequin, also available from ‘FCE London’.
These are great when developing 3D shapes as they are half scale and so save space and materials.
These are commonly used in couture houses to test and refine ideas.
Sewing machine: Recommended Sewing Machines Information .
Owning a sewing machine for home use is not essential, but it is a very useful resource to have at your disposal.
Tuesday 16 September: 10.00am – 5.30pm, room 702 and 703
Wednesday 17 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room 704
Thursday 18 September: 10.30am - 5.00pm, room 702 and 703
Instagram: @ravensbourne_fashion_official

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/fashion-buying-brand-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management at Ravensbourne University London.
Mandi Marks-Adler , Course Leader
Please be aware this is not a to do list but suggestions of things you might enjoy to ready yourself for the start of the year.
Immerse yourself in the Industry
To help you prepare for your studies, find inspiration and get up to date with the latest industry news please start by:
Following our Instagram @fashionbuying_ravensbourne and see what our students have been creating this year.
You may also want to follow Life of a Buyer to get an insiders view on the industry and look for other fashion accounts.
Buying is not the only pathway we will explore!
Sign up for the daily emails from these free websites and immerse yourself in what is going on in our industry at the moment.
Please don’t pay for any websites as we can share free links when you arrive.
Fashion Network
Fashion United
Inspiration
What brands inspire you, who would you dream of working for?
Start to build a folder of images you like or that inspire you.
Images can be from any source but here are few starting points.
Pull images from magazines, Instagram or any sources you like.
Tag Walk
Dezeen
It’s Nice That
Hypebeast
Exhibitions
Visit a fashion exhibition or any other exhibition that interests you.
There are lots on this summer, but quite a few finish at the beginning of September.
A student Art Pass is only £10 and get's you 50% off entry to some exhibitions.
These are just suggestions, entry to most galleries are free but exhibitions can be expensive, go to what you can afford and will inspire you.
Gianni Versace: Retrospective Exhibition, The Arches London Bridge
Dirty Looks , Barbican
Costume Couture - Sixty Years of Cos Prop, Fashion and Textiles Museum
Virtual Beauty , Somerset House
Unpicking Couture , Manchester Art Gallery (free)
Visit Stores
Find out what is new or inspiring in store/window design, what great stores do you have near you?
Have a look at the latest concept stores with this article from Insider Trends .
It costs nothing (except tube fare) to look at new stores and be aware of the retail trends.
Kings Road in Chelsea: Nearest tube: Sloane Square.
Look at the Look at the Rixo Flagship store , which other store has a bar with palm trees!
H and M have a new concept store on this road.
Farm Rio - watch this to see behind the scenes for the store's creation.
Covent Garden: Nearest tube: Covent Garden/Leicester Square.
Arc'teryx have opened a repair store in Covent Garden and Veja have a new concept with repairs in nearby Seven Dials.
Oxford Street: Nearest tube: Oxford Circus.
Pangaia have a flagship store on Carnaby Street and visit Dries Van Noten in Hanover Square
Shoreditch High Street: Nearest tube: Shoreditch High Street.
Visit Nudie Jeans Repair Shop.
Dalston: Nearest tube: Dalston Kingsland.
LN CC lifestyle have reopened at 18-24 Shacklewell Lane.
Do you have a great Independent store local to you or a lifestyle store?
Take some photos, share it with us.
Latest Pop Ups
Dior At Harrods until 27 August
Diptique at St Pancras Station until September
The House By Ro - By Rotation store on Brook St until September
Style of Our Own, 20 Independent Women’s Sports Brands Regent St until 31 October
Click the links for more details
Listen to Podcasts
If you have time on holiday listen to a fashion podcast, really fantastic list here to dip into.
Tuesday 16 September: 10.00am – 4.30pm, room 706
Thursday 18 September: 10.30am – 1.30pm, room 706
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 706
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 706
Wednesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 702/3
Instagram: @fashionbuying_ravensbourne

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/fbbm-year-0:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management with Integrated Foundation Year at Ravensbourne University London.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/fashion-promotion-communication:
Congratulations and welcome to the BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion & Communication Course at Ravensbourne University London!
We look forward to supporting and working with you during the three years on the course.
Cameron Haynes , Course Leader
Summer Project
We would like you to complete a Summer Project with two tasks.
The work completed will provide an opportunity for staff and your peers to get to know you and what inspires you.
There is no assessment of these tasks, but it will provide you with a head start to your first project.
Click here for your project brief
Sign up for the daily emails from these websites and immerse yourself in current industry news:
Business of Fashion
British Vogue
Tuesday 16 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room R2-201
R2 building: 4 Appleby Yard, Soames Walk, London, SE10 0BJ
Wednesday 17 September: 10.00am – 12.00pm, room R1-702/3
R1 Building: 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R2 Building - room R2-301
Tuesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room R1-702
Wednesday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room R1-102

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-film-production:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Digital Film Production at Ravensbourne University London.
We are looking forward to welcoming you into our creative community.
James Davis , Course Leader
In your First Week there will be a range of exciting and informative sessions that will be of great benefit as you start to navigate your Ravensbourne journey, including a 48 hour filmmaking challenge where we will set you a brief to make a 60 second smartphone film as part of a small group.
It’s a great way to connect and collaborate from the very first day of your DFP experience.
We will also be discussing our favourite films, film-makers and areas of interest, so you should come ready with a sense of your own influences and inspirations.
Some general reflections on films you have seen over the summer would be good to have in mind.
What made you laugh, what made you cry?
Maybe a film made you feel nostalgic or full of hope for the future, had you on the edge of your seat or watching through your fingers from behind the sofa.
What inspires YOU?
Monday 15 September: 11.00am – 5.30pm
Group 1: students with surnames A - L, room 102
Group 2: students with surnames M - Z, room 602/3
Wednesday 17 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm
All activities will take place at our R1 building: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Instagram: @ravensbourne_dfp

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/digital-television-production:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Digital Television Production at Ravensbourne University London.
Angelo Gianpaolo Bucci , Course Leader
Begin to immerse yourself in how the industry thinks and acts.
Subscribing to or reading the following newsletters and publications and newsletters will help you to learn more about the industry.
Some of the publications require a subscription but you will be able to access some content for free it is also possible that your local library will have free access.
Industry trade publications
Industry newsletters
Your course team will discuss any required course equipment during Welcome Week.
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am – 4.00pm, room R1-312
Friday 19 September: 9.30am – 1.30pm, room R1-211

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/editing-and-post-production:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production at Ravensbourne University London!
This is the start of an important journey towards your chosen career – really looking forward to meeting you!”
Greg Loftin , Course Leader
Read: put some time aside to read In the Blink of an Eye by Walter Murch - it's a slim volume and still one of the best books about our craft.
Watch: check out the opening sequence from City of God and consider how the cut, and sound design, are telling the story.
We'll talk about all this when we see you during your First Week.
Tuesday 16 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room 209/10
Thursday 18 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room 209/10
Monday , 9.00am - 1.00pm, R1 Building - room 209/210
Tuesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 209/210
Wednesday , 2.00pm - 6.00pm, R1 Building - room 209/210

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/music-and-sound-production:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production at Ravensbourne University London!
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant student community.”
Christos Manolas , Course Leader
Subscribing to and engaging with the following resources and newsletters will help you to learn more about the industry.
Please make sure you have access to a reasonably up to date laptop or desktop computer.
If this is not possible, you can still complete the planned coursework tasks on the shared university computers, but having the ability to work on your own machine will be much more effective and convenient.
External hard drives will be also handy for transferring files and projects between the university computers and your own machines.
If you are looking to purchase a new laptop for your studies please see our laptop requirements document to ensure you have a device that will be suitable.
If you are unsure whether your current device is suitable for the course please speak to your Course Leader during your first week.
Tuesday 16 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room 308
Thursday 18 September: 9.30am – 5.00pm, room 308
Your Students' Union team is currently working on putting together a fantastic Welcome Festival, full details of all events will be released.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/ug/broadcast-engineering:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study BSc (Hons) Broadcast Engineering at Ravensbourne University London!
We hope that this will be the start of an important journey towards your chosen career with like-minded aspiring broadcasting professionals.”
Peter Morgan , Course Leader
If you are unsure if you need to purchase a new laptop for the course or which laptop to purchase please speak to your course team during Welcome Week.
Wednesday 17 September: 9.30am – 4.30pm, room 205
On Wednesday all activities will take place at our main campus: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW
Thursday 18 September: 10.30am – 3.00pm, meet at the Science Museum, Exhibition Road, South Kensington, London, SW7 2DD

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/mba:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study Master of Business Administration at Ravensbourne University London.
Chris Jones , Interim Course Leader
Please read this document for a brief introduction to management, marketing and strategy and along with reading and reflection tasks.
Thursday 18 September: 10.30am - 5.30pm, R1-102
Activities will take place in our R1 Building: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-engineering-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Engineering Management at Ravensbourne University London.
We hope that this will be the start of an important journey towards your chosen career with like-minded aspiring engineering managers.”
Esther Perea Borobio , Course Leader
There is no pre-work for this course, but please do take some time to read through our preparing for university pages to help you get ready for your studies.
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, R1-107

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-events-management:
Congratulations and welcome to the MSc Events Management at Ravensbourne University London!
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant student community and start the journey towards your chosen career in events management.
Julia Haferkorn , Course Leader
To help you prepare for your studies, find inspiration and get up to date with the latest industry news, please do the following:
Thursday 18 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, R1-602/3

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/welcome-information-msc-international-finance:
Congratulations and welcome to the MSc International Finance at Ravensbourne University London!
You’ll build the knowledge, skills, and confidence to thrive in today’s fast-moving financial world.
We're excited to have you with us!”
Finance Fundamentals

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/project-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Project Management at Ravensbourne University London.
Jasmine Hajreza Tehrani , Course Leader
Please read/watch the following content to help prepare you for the start of your course:
Jugdev, K., Müller, R.
and Hutchinson, M., 2023.
Future trends in project management: A macro-environmental analysis .
Project management circa, pp.229-240.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT IN THE CREATIVE INDUSTRIES | CBU International Conference Proceedings.
(2019).
ojs.journals.cz.
Roeder, T.
(2018).
A sixth sense for project management .
www.ted.com .
Zaika, K.
(n.d.).
Council Post: Invest In Project Management Before Shifting To The Metaverse .
Forbes.
Friday 19 September: 10.30am - 5.30pm, R1-604

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/digital-marketing:
Congratulations and welcome to the MSc Strategic Marketing and Analytics course at Ravensbourne University London!
Guido Dal Pozzo , Course Leader
You may wish to purchase and familiarise yourself with the following key textbooks.
Please note you do not need to read the whole book before you start the course.
Kotler, P., & Armstrong, G.
(2008).
Principles of Marketing .
Pearson/Prentice Hall.
Chaffey, D., & Ellis-Chadwick, F.
(2020).
Digital Marketing .
Pearson.
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room R1-606
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions per week, 9.00am - 6.00pm, Monday - Friday.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/computer-science:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Computer Science at Ravensbourne University London.
We can’t wait for you to join our vibrant student community!”
Faisal Mustafa , Course Leader
To prepare for your semester one modules you should:
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, R1-901
Activities will take place in our R1 building: Ravensbourne University London, 6 Penrose Way, London, SE10 0EW

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/cyber-security:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Cyber Security at Ravensbourne University London.
We hope that this will further your journey towards your chosen career with like-minded cyber security professionals.”
Oras Hassani , Course Leader
To help you prepare for starting the course please complete these three short introductions to Linux Fundamentals
You may also find it useful to purchase and start reading the following book.
We do not expect you to read the whole book prior to starting the course.
John M.
Zelle, Python programming: an introduction to computer science
Friday 19 September: 10.00am - 5.00pm, R1-902
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions each week taking place between 9.30am - 4.30pm, Monday - Friday.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/cyber-security-management:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MSc Cyber Security Management at Ravensbourne University London.
Mahmood Shah , Course Leader
Please review the following video and articles to prepare you for starting the course:
Introduction to Business Management
Linux Fundamentals
Pentesting Fundamentals
Principles of Security
Friday 19 September: 10.30am - 5.30pm, R1-904
You will have three teaching sessions each week taking place between 9.00am - 6.00pm, Monday - Friday.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/design-communication:
Congratulations and welcome to the MA Design Communication course at Ravensbourne University London!
We are excited to have you on board and look forward to working together from September onwards.
José García Oliva , Course Leader
To kickstart your academic journey, we recommend familiarising yourself with some key books in the field of design communication.
These readings will help you develop a good understanding of the subject matter and provide a solid foundation for the first semester of your studies.
Additionally, it is essential for you to enhance your skills in key design software such as Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop, Lightroom, and Premiere Pro in advance.
These tools will be utilized extensively throughout the course, and possessing a solid foundation in their usage will greatly benefit your learning experience.
Before the first session, if possible, I would like you to walk around the Design District and its vicinities.
Record your impressions, either by sound, drawings or creative writing.
Think about who is living and working here.
You won’t need to show me the result, but we will be able to openly talk about the locality where we will working together.
Optional further reading
– Notebook – Pencils / Pens
Thursday 18 September
Course Induction: 10.00am– 5.00pm, room R3-206
Monday , 9.30am - 12.30pm, R3 Building - room 206
Monday , 1.30pm - 4.30pm, R3 Building - room 206
Thursday , 9.30am - 12.30pm, R3 Building - room 206

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/illustration:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MA Illustration at Ravensbourne University London.
We are looking forward to working with on your creative and academic journey.
Building your creative, research, thinking, communication and technical skills in ways which are relevant for you and the contemporary creative industries.”
Tony Branch , Course Leader
The book below will be very useful throughout your studies.
We are not suggesting that you need to purchase it at this stage or read the whole book before you start, however it will be relevant to a range of modules.
For the first semester the chapter: ‘Contemporary and Future Practice’, would be especially useful.
Male, A (2019) The Power and Influence of Illustration.
New York: Bloomsbury
If you have any questions, please speak to your course team during your first week, you will not need to bring this equipment with you during that week.
General drawing materials would also be useful: pencils and pens, possibly extending to brushes and ink.
We are not sending out an extensive list at this stage as we would like to see and discuss how you work.
We can have these discussions during the early period of teaching.
If you have a tablet device they can be helpful for your practise, please bring them along if you have one, but they are not compulsory.
Your course welcome week activities will be taking place on the following date.
Course Induction: 10.00am– 5.00pm, room R3-206.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/new-starters/welcome-information/pg/mba-fasion-business-entrepreneurship:
We’re delighted you’ve chosen to study MBA Fashion: Business Entrepreneurship at Ravensbourne University London.
Professor Natascha Radclyffe-Thomas EdD FRSA , Course Leader
To prepare you for your studies on MBA Fashion: Business Entrepreneurship please read the Business of Fashion x McKinsey & Co The State of Fashion 2025 Report .
We also strongly recommend you purchase the following key textbooks before starting the course.
You do not need to read these books in full before you start the course, but it will be useful to start looking at them.
Karra, Neri (2021).
Fashion Entrepreneurship: The Creation of the Global Fashion Industry.
Varley, Rosemary et al.
(2024) Fashion Management: A Strategic Approach .
Bloomsbury.
2nd edition.
Discount code GLR BD8
Friday 19 September: 10.00am – 5.00pm, room R1-706
In your first semester you will have three teaching sessions per week.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/media/11810:
XLSX – 25.94KB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/postgraduate-bursaries-and:
Below you can find information about the various funding and support packages we have available at Ravensbourne University London.
Overseas fee-paying students beginning our postgraduate courses in 2025/26 will receive a scholarship of £3,500, which will be automatically applied.
Applicants who have accepted their offer, are classified as overseas students for fee purposes and holding an offer for a postgraduate course at Ravensbourne.
A Postgraduate Master’s Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate master’s course.
You can get up to:
The amount you’ll get is not based on your income or your family’s.
The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) may take account of the loan when working out any benefits you receive.
The loan is paid directly to you.
You can use it for your course fees and living costs.
If your course lasts for more than a year, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
Visit the Gov.uk website for more information and to apply.
The BFC MA scholarship is awarded to a graduate from one of the BFC Colleges.
The funding, which is from the British Fashion Council Education Foundation, is given to support graduates who have been offered a place on a UK MA fashion design course, and who, for financial reasons, would be unable to accept their place on the course without support.
UK students studying for a Masters in Fashion.
Find out more about this scholarship and submit your application here.
If you are starting a postgraduate course in the coming academic year you may be eligible to apply for a Postgrad Solutions Study Bursary.
Each bursary is worth £2000 and they are open to students from anywhere in the world.
See their website for eligibility and terms and conditions as this bursary scheme is external to Ravensbourne.
Postgrad Solutions Study Bursaries
What are Chevening Scholarships?
Students should complete the online application form on the Chevening Website.
For useful information on funding opportunities for postgraduate study visit:
Please see below the bursaries we have available for out postgraduate students.
The online application forms will go live in September following enrolment.
Ravensbourne is committed to providing assistance to our students in financial hardship.
The Student Services Support Award is given to students who face an unexpected crisis that may jeopardise their ability to continue with study.
This bursary is usually awarded as a payment in kind towards the costs of food, travel or course equipment.
Depending on circumstances, a cash payment may be given.
Students will need to complete the online application form and provide copies of the following evidence to support your application:
All evidence should be sent to [email protected]
Depending on circumstances, students may be required to meet with the Finance Support Coordinator to discuss additional forms of support and money management.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students/fees-and-funding/further-education/further-education-bursaries-and:
Currently reading: External sources of funding
We regret that foundation and access to HE students are unable to apply for maintenance loans from Student Finance to assist with living expenses, as these loans are available to undergraduate students only.
We strongly advise prospective students to consider all the costs of study including accommodation, travel, equipment, and food while undertaking their course, and have alternative means of funding such as part-time work and/or savings.
Students may find the student budget planner produced by Save the Student a useful tool to help figure out a realistic budget.
You will also find lots of tips on budgeting on their website.
Students 19 and over should also ensure they have the means available to pay tuition fees.
The easiest way to do this will be to apply for an Advanced Learner Loan from the Student Loans Company, who will be offering support with fee costs only.
See below for further information.
With regards to living expenses, there may be some support available however, this will be discretionary and designed to assist with food, travel and/or course equipment.
Please see below our range of bursaries for our FE/Access students for 25/26 academic year.
The online application forms will go live at the start of August 2025.
Please note that no funding can be paid until you have fully enrolled on course.
The 16 to 19 bursary fund provides financial support to help students stay in further education.
This funding is provided by the Education & Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) and therefore, strict eligibility criteria apply.
There are two types of 16 to 19 bursaries available:
Termly discretionary cash payments will be available to those with the most challenging financial circumstances.
To be eligible for the discretionary bursary, you must:
To be eligible for the vulnerable bursary, students must meet the above criteria and be:
Students should complete the online application form and provide the Student Services Team with supporting evidence as follows:
For the vulnerable bursary:
Please be advised that students who meet the criteria for bursaries for vulnerable groups are not automatically entitled to a bursary if they do not have financial needs and/or their financial needs are covered from other sources.
For the discretionary bursary:
One of the following as proof of household income:
Students should also supply:
All supporting evidence should be emailed to [email protected]
Application deadline is 1 April 2026.
Free meals are targeted at the most disadvantaged students, meaning those in receipt of, or having parents who are in receipt of, one or more of the following benefits:
You do not need to apply separately for free meals, as we will assess you when we receive your application for the 16-19 bursary based on the household income evidence provided.
This funding is provided by the ESFA.
The student services support award is given to students who face an unexpected crisis that may jeopardise their ability to continue with study.
This bursary is usually awarded as a payment in kind towards the costs of food, travel and/or course equipment.
E ligibility
Depending on circumstances, students may be required to meet with the finance support coordinator to discuss additional forms of support and money management.
Students in receipt of an Advanced Learner Loan from Student Finance England, may be eligible for support from the advanced learner loan bursary fund.
The money can help pay for things like:
This funding is provided by the ESFA and therefore, strict eligibility criteria apply.
Students must be in receipt of an advanced learner loan and have a household income of £35,000 or less.
Students can apply for an advanced learner loan bursary by completing the on-line application form and provide the student services team with:
And one of the following as proof of your family's household income:
Students applying for childcare support should download the childcare provider form which needs to be completed by the childcare provider.
Students who are 19 or over and studying a Foundation Level 3 qualification at Ravensbourne, can apply for an Advanced Learner Loan to cover the cost of their tuition fee.
To be eligible for one of these loans you must:
Please visit the Student Loan Company website for details of how to apply.
Please note the Learner will need their Learning and Funding Information Letter (LAFIL) to make the application.
Please contact [email protected] if you have not received this.
Family Action has been distributing grants to help people and families in need since they were founded in 1869.
They know that by giving a small grant when it’s needed the most, they can remove immediate financial barriers, thereby helping families to work through the bigger issues they’re facing.
Visit their website for more information on how they can help you.
Turn2us is a national charity that helps people in financial hardship gain access to welfare benefits, charitable grants and support services.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/entry-requirements-and-visas/visas-and-immigration/evisa-online-immigration:
UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) use a digital immigration system with an online record of your immigration status, known as an eVisa.
Details can be found on the UK Government Online immigration status (eVisa) page .
You must create a UKVI account and get your eVisa share code for in-person enrolment.
If you have a physical right to study document, such as a BRP card or sticker in your passport, you must use this document to set up your UKVI account and provide your eVisa.
For a step-by-step visual guide on setting up your UKVI account, please see the official UKVI video below.
You can create your UKVI account online on the UK Government website .
Video provided by the Home Office YouTube channel
To log in to your UKVI account, you will need details of the identity document you used to sign in (such as your passport, national identity card, or biometric residence card or permit), your date of birth, and access to the mobile number or email linked to your account.
After setting up your UKVI account, you can view your eVisa to check information about your Student Visa, including visa permission, its expiry and conditions such as work permission.
You will need to share your immigration status through the view and prove service by creating a share code.
This code can be shared securely with third parties, such as Ravensbourne University London, and grants temporary access to your information on the UKVI system.
A new share code is generated each time.
Please ensure your share code is valid.
View and prove your immigration status
How to prove your immigration status with an eVisa
You can update your details online via the government website.
Please keep the following information up to date:
Please regularly check and update your account to ensure your immigration status is correctly reflected and accessible when needed.
Update your UK Visas and Immigration account details
Use the UKVI form to report something wrong on your eVisa, you should receive a response within ten days.
If you are not sure whether a detail on your eVisa is an error or not, please contact our UKVI team.
Report an error with your eVisa
For any further questions, please contact our UKVI team on [email protected]
Please send all share codes to [email protected] .
Please provide your full name, student number and date of birth in the email.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/new-starter-faqs-and-enquiries:
We will start to invite students to enrol up to 6 weeks prior to the start of term.
You will receive an email inviting you to complete online enrolment which will include a username and password to access the enrolment system.
If you are still having issues enrolling online there will be regular online drop-in sessions with the Student Services team to help you with any questions you may have at the start of your journey with Ravensbourne.
These sessions will take place on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1.00pm - 2.00pm UK Time - Join here .
In person enrolment is only for students that have to confirm their right to study in the UK.
This is because they are required to present their documentation to Registry in order for the university to meet its obligations to the UKVI.
Please note, students who have EU Settled or Pre-Settled status are not required to enrol in person as the university can confirm their right to study online.
UK, Irish and EU nationals, may be required to provide proof of identity – either your passport, driving license, government issued photocard or birth certificate.
Please note: if your driving licence states that your place of birth was outside the UK or Ireland, you will need to provide your passport.
Required documents for international students:
Please note that we will not be able to fully enrol you on the course if you are unable to provide all of the above documents/information.
Additional Information
Your IT account details will be sent to your personal email once you have completed your online enrolment, and the Enrolment Team have completed their checks.
Once you have completed enrolment your timetable will be allocated by Tuesday 3 September.
You may also be able to see your first semester timetable details on your course Welcome Information page.
We strongly encourage students to attend their First Week to experience in-depth introductions to your course and university departments which are essential during your student journey.
If you do happen to miss your First Week there will be extra catch-up sessions in the first few weeks of teaching alongside online resources available.
Send us an enquiry today:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/parents:
Currently reading: In this section
We know how much your child’s education means to you.
It’s a major milestone in their life – one capable of unlocking the potential you’ve seen in them all along.
This hub provides parents and guardians of future and current students with information on how Ravensbourne University London can make your offspring’s next chapter fulfilling and valuable.
We will help you help them make the right choice.
As the year groups were smaller in comparison to larger universities, it gave me the chance to have more time and personal support with the wonderful tutors”
Chelsea Boyce , BA Fashion Buying and Brand Management, graduated in 2018
We pride ourselves on embracing emerging technologies and finding new disruptive ways of working.
Your child will gain access to exceptional facilities and equipment, and work in a building that also plays host to more than 100 creative technology businesses.
Ravensbourne students can take advantage of our excellent industry links, including illustrious brands like Givenchy , Amazon , Ford , Royal Shakespeare Company and British Fashion Council .
We will provide your child with the specialist, practical skills and opportunities they need to thrive in the Creative Industries.
This isn't about earning a certificate.
This is about truly preparing your child for their post-grad life within the Creative Industries.
Learn more : our facilities
* Source: Creative Industries Foundation
Search creative courses now
You need more information to help your child make the right call.
Choosing a university is a difficult decision – one that takes a lot of research and headspace.
So, while you’ll find an array of tailored content in this section, here’s ten ways to get started.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/disability-support/disabled-students:
The Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) is intended to assist with additional costs UK students may have to incur as a result of their disability.
The DSA is available to students who are studying at degree level or beyond.
The allowance is available to cover areas of need for example, specialist equipment and a non-medical helper allowance, this could be a specialist tutor for dyslexia, a sign support worker or note taker etc.
You can obtain further information from your local DSA funding body:
Students from the Republic of Ireland may be entitled to funding via the Fund for Students with Disabilities (which is funded by the Irish Government).
For further information about the fund, guidance on making an application and other financial support, please visit their webpage .
Unfortunately, international students are not eligible for the UK government disability allowances.
However, the University can offer some Study Skills sessions and some basic equipment.
It is the responsibility of the EU and overseas students to enquire from their own country whether or not they are eligible for any financial help.
More information about eligibility and how to apply, can be found on the government website .
If you have a specific learning difficulty (Dyslexia, Dyspraxia, ADHD/ADD, ASD etc.) and have a diagnostic assessment, please contact us so that we can advise you on applying for funding (Disabled Students Allowance/DSA).
We can then have the appropriate support in place for when your studies commence.
If you don't have a diagnostic assessment, then this can be arranged through Ravensbourne.
You can arrange this through Student Services.
For all other disabilities and long term health conditions, you will need medical evidence or a report from a suitably qualified specialist to support your funding application.
If you are unsure but think you might have a disability or a learning difficulty we would encourage you to contact Student Services as early as possible.
We will offer you an informal discussion regarding your needs and study at Ravensbourne.
Once your course begins, it can be difficult to prioritise this so we would encourage you to get in touch as soon as any issues arise, so that we can get appropriate support in place to enable you to get the most out of your time at Ravensbourne.
If you have declared on your application form that you have a disability or learning difficulty, Student Services will contact you by email with a checklist prior to enrolment.
If you need further advice or information regarding DSA please attend one of the Disability Drop-in's which are held on Level 4 in the Grey booths on Mondays and Fridays between 12:30pm - 1:30pm.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-apply/postgraduate-applications:
Currently reading: International applicants
All postgraduate applicants will need to apply directly to Ravensbourne via our Online Applicant Portal .
Each course has a unique link to apply.
You can find the relevant link in the table below.
Still looking for more information on how to apply to Ravensbourne University London as an international student?
We also have dedicated advice available on the process.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/enrolment-and-semester-dates:
Currently reading: Welcome Week
If you have any questions or queries relating to enrolment or term dates, please contact our team at [email protected] .
Welcome Week is what we call all the activities involving enrolment and induction.
Visit our New Starters page to access the dates and timetables for your course.
Academic timetables: You will be able to access your academic timetable once you have fully enrolled and activated your IT account.
Undergraduate courses
Each semester is 15 weeks and includes a 3 week assessment period.
Please note that students transferring from Berghs School of Communication in January 2025 should also follow this schedule, joining in semester 2.
Welcome week will take place from 13 January 2025 for you.
Postgraduate courses
The university is closed on these dates:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/study-skills:
The Study Skills team at Ravensbourne are here to help you become a more effective and independent learner.
So if you are stuck on a task and not sure where to start, why not come and see us?
General Enquiries:
T: 020 3040 3501
To book a study skills appointment:
T: 020 3040 3716
We want to know what you think of our services.
Please feel free to leave feedback here .
View current rates for One-to-One Study Skill Support provided through DSA

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/schools-and-colleges/aspiring-creatives-make-it-ravensbourne:
Currently reading: Upcoming events
Make it Ravensbourne is our programme to support people aged 14+ to access creative education and careers.
Across the Autumn, Spring and Summer we have a number of free workshops in creative and digital skills, holiday schools and 1-1 opportunities.
A list of watchable and downloadable resources to help you with your application to Ravensbourne.
Fashion portfolio tips
Design portfolio tips
Showreel tips
Interview support
PDF – 2.07MB
PDF – 2.12MB
Follow us on Instagram @raveoutreach
Email us [email protected]
Meet us at an event
Join our mailing list to kept up to date.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/teachers:
Ravensbourne is dedicated to delivering top-tier progression programs to our network of educational institutions, including schools, colleges, and outreach partners.
Our central aim is to provide learners with comprehensive information, guidance, and insight into the dynamic realms of the creative, digital and business management industries, offering a glimpse into the unique experience of studying at a specialised university.
Our primary mission is to empower the next generation, ensuring their progression and success within these innovative sectors.
Our outreach initiatives are exceptionally adaptable, allowing us to tailor our offerings to meet specific needs.
From holiday clubs to one-off workshops, and personalised support with personal statements, portfolios, or show reels, we offer a diverse array of options.
If you have specific requirements or wish to book any of the workshops mentioned, please don't hesitate to reach out to us .
Our Schools and Outreach team would love to meet your students.
We can offer the following workshops to take place online, at your campus, or at our site in North Greenwich.
To book any of our offerings please contact us [email protected]
Discover Ravensbourne
Exploring the Foundation and Undergraduate courses at Ravensbourne and how to apply.
Students gain Knowledge of Ravensbourne,- our courses and USPs
If you choose the campus option it includes a tour of the campus.
A presentation with tips for making the best possible portfolio or showreel for application to creative courses at university.
A session that focuses on working with learners to give feedback on personal statements.
Supporting learners with applying to Undergraduate or Foundation courses at Ravensbourne University.
Our resources we have to offer
Our offerings aim to support your school/college in contributing toward the Gatsby Benchmarks.
All our activity listed below is coded with the benchmarks they meet.
Gatsby Benchmark Code
Benchmark Description
G1
A stable careers programme
G2
Learning from career and labour market information
G3
Addressing the needs of each pupil
G4
Linking curriculum learning to careers
G5
Encounters with employers and employees
G6
Experiences of workplaces
G7
Encounters with further and higher education
G8
Personal Guidance
To book a particular workshop, email us on [email protected] with your workshop choice, date, time and group size.
Videos and downloadable documents to support your students with careers advice and application to creative courses at University.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/meet-us-0:
Throughout the year we attend a number of recruitment events across the UK and internationally.
This is a great opportunity to meet a representative or chat with a student or alumnus about life at Ravensbourne.
UK University Search and UCAS.
Below is a list of all the Higher Education exhibitions that Ravensbourne University London will be attending in the Autumn 2025.
We will update Spring/Summer 2026 events towards the end of the year.
To check if we're visiting somewhere near you, or to invite us to an event, please email student recruitment .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/schools-and-outreach/creative-projects:
Here you'll find our growing resource of projects and collaborations aimed at students of all ages.
Why not share the results on our outreach social channels @raveoutreach #letsmakeitcreative.
We'd love to see them!
Produce a documentary of your experience of the Covid-19 lockdown through your own words and imagery.
PDF – 494.03KB
This workshop is all about creating a professional-looking fashion magazine front cover.
PDF – 168.60KB
This workshop is about all about making your own logo.
PDF – 160.25KB
This workshop is about all creating our own typeface/alphabet.
PDF – 235.36KB
Research ideas and inspiration on existing ideas around Utopia., then create a flyer.
PDF – 296.91KB
Explore ideas around ‘fluidity’ then create a photo series of 3-5 images that depicts the theme.
PDF – 0.99MB
Explore ideas around ‘hope’ and then create an outcome inspired by the theme.
PDF – 537.35KB
During this workshop you will gain the skills and knowledge to produce high quality, creative images that will take your photographs to a whole new level.
PDF – 233.12KB
Sketchbooks are a wonderful way to record what you see, as well as what you think and feel.
Explore creative ideas without the pressure of producing final outcomes.
PDF – 367.56KB
This workshop will show you how to make a simple flipbook animation using a limited amount of materials.
PDF – 299.82KB
For this project you will create a six-panel comic about what you think is the best thing about staying at home.
PDF – 518.30KB
By the end of this workshop you should have a better understanding of editing typography in Adobe Illustrator and how to make your own poster.
PDF – 274.89KB
This workshop is about all about your own moving GIF using Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop.
PDF – 163.89KB
This workshop is about all about creating a creative digital collage using Adobe Illustrator.
PDF – 819.75KB
Give your character a name, a back story, and some special attributes.
Bring your character to life with this fun workshop.
PDF – 623.92KB
This fun activity introduces aspects of fashion design development and teaches how to produce work suitable for a creative portfolio.
PDF – 517.13KB
Make a mask to help keep you and others safer.
A lot of communities around the world are making similar masks and sharing them with family and friends so why not make some extra?
PDF – 380.75KB
Every great Fashion Designer needs two toolkits, a physical one that includes equipment, and a digital one that allows you to explore your creativity wherever you may be.
PDF – 486.38KB
The bouncing ball is a very simple animation exercise and can teach students several of the essential principles of animation.
PDF – 501.18KB
Learn how to make a very simple character that has a strong visual identity and a clear back story.
PDF – 715.98KB
All designers need a toolkit - this guide shows you how to make your very first one.
PDF – 338.92KB
Explore new ways of reusing objects, spaces and materials and learn how to use the space and objects around us.
PDF – 631.18KB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/schools-and-colleges/make-it-ravensbourne/make-it-zine-series:
Working in the creative industries in the UK is an exhilarating and rewarding career choice, but understanding which area to focus on can be tricky.
Our MAKE IT zine series will give you an insight into the different creative industries in the UK.
Find out more about the careers, pathways and networking opportunities available to you.
Every edition in this series will shine a light on a different area of the creative industries.
What are you waiting for?
Get exploring!
After visiting lots of schools, colleges and careers events across the UK, I noticed that young people weren’t taught about the breadth of options available to them in a creative career.
We are hoping this little zine series can support the amazing work that our colleagues in schools and colleges are already doing.
As creatives ourselves, we want to support future creatives and diversify the industry as much as possible!”
Hattie Moore , Outreach Officer
Read our blog and find out more.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/alumni/join-our-alumni-network:
Did you know our alumni include a royal wedding dress designer, the designer of the Olympic torch for the London 2012 Ceremony and an award-winning stand up comedienne?
Our alumni network offers valuable resources, and allows you to build connections with a worldwide community of like-minded creators and innovators.
As a member, you'll also have access to career resources, exclusive networking opportunities, and a range of perks including alumni discounts.
We have an impressive array of alumni working across the creative industries from the BBC, Sony and Burberry, to QVC, Barclays, Givenchy and Framestore.
We are proud of how quickly our graduates get jobs in the industry, often through industry contacts they made at Ravensbourne.
Here are some standout examples of what recent graduates have gone on to achieve.
We always welcome our alumni back, to share their knowledge and stories with our current students.
Our alumni get a real buzz out of knowing their experience is helping to inspire current students to reach their potential  and work within their industry.
Could you be a guest speaker, panelist or help judge our students work in competition?
Join the hundreds of alumni who have given back, by contacting us today .
Can you give your time to help inspire our current students and recent graduates by listening, challenging and developing their ideas.
You can use your knowledge and expertise to make a difference to students' lives.
One of the ways you can help is by becoming a Ravensbourne Mentor.
Ravensbourne Mentors offers you the opportunity to:
It’s easy to sign up and if you have a LinkedIn profile you can add this to your personal details.
If you would like to sign up, please complete the form below.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/alumni/clare-waight-keller-visits-ravensbourne-degree-show:
Clare Waight Keller, artistic director of Givenchy and designer of Meghan Markle’s wedding gown, visited the Ravensbourne Degree Show viewing student work and speaking with staff and students.
The event is an annual opportunity to celebrate the work of students, with both the School of Design and School of Media showcasing work which seeks to challenge, excite, entertain and change the world for the better.
Clare visited the afternoon before the official opening, looking around the various departments and joining staff for a celebration of Ravensbourne’s announcement of university title.
Clare studied at Ravensbourne herself, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in fashion in the early 1990s.
In 2017, she was appointed artistic director of the house of Givenchy, becoming their first female artistic director.
Prior to this, she held artistic director positions at Pringle of Scotland and Chloé, among other work experience.
Commenting, Clare said: “It was amazing to see the quality of work created by students and how committed they are to what they believe in.
The details of the collections produced by the fashion students felt very professionally produced and very modern, so I was quite excited about what I saw.
“I think what’s interesting about the North Greenwich campus compared to where I studied in Chislehurst, is that you have so much crossover between the different disciplines.
It’s almost like working in a sort of arena of art and design, which is wonderful.”
Professor Linda Drew, Ravensbourne’s Director added: “It was fantastic to have Clare visit us, and a fitting way to begin this year’s Ravensbourne Degree Show.
Naturally, we are very proud of her achievements - they set a great example to our current students of what they can achieve when they enter the world of work.
The Ravensbourne Degree Show was produced by students, for students, and as such this really was their show.
I would like to say a huge congratulations to them all for pulling off such a vibrant and ambitious event.”
Clare Waight Keller visits the Ravensbourne Degree Show

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/alumni/alumni-support:
As soon as you graduate, you become a member of our alumni community.
To help support you the university offers a number of benefits and services to our alumni.
I f you choose to continue your studies at postgraduate degree level, we offer a range of specialised, digitally-focused postgraduate courses.
Ravensbourne supports a multi-disciplinary environment with industry-standard facilities, offering a unique context to explore specialist Masters degrees.
All our tutors are respected academics and practitioners with excellent experience and links to industry.
There is a discount of up to 20% on postgraduate tuition fees, available to home students with an undergraduate qualification achieved at Ravensbourne University London.
Support for overseas students can be found on our Scholarships for student route visa holders page.
Please note: alumni discount cannot be used in conjunction with another discount or scholarship offer.
Find out which postgraduate courses we offer or contact [email protected] for details of the discounts currently available.
No matter how long ago you graduated from Ravensbourne, the Careers Team are still here to help.
If you graduated in the last three years we can arrange a one-to-one meeting or a telephone consultation concerning your career planning.
Whether you are looking for CV advice, information, or support on becoming a freelancer our Insights section on the careers website may be just what you need.
Check out the website to find lots of useful hints and tips, with topics covered including;
The careers team is continually working with industry to make sure you are getting the most up-to-date and qualitative career resources.
If you’d like support looking for a role, career progression advice or support for freelancing or starting up a business we can help.
T o contact  the team to book an appointment, to discuss your individual needs email [email protected] or call +44 (0)20 3040 3996 .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/our-alumni/alumni-faqs:
Contact [email protected] Please include details of your student ID, (if known) subject, year of graduation and the awarding body.
Contact us at [email protected] Please state the course you studied and year of graduation.
We will then contact the academic department responsible to provide the appropriate details.
No.
Unfortunately student email addresses are discontinued when you are no longer a student.
This normally  occurs in December during the year you graduate.
We do not currently offer the use of Ravensbourne’s facilities with the exception of the library.
This can be accessed when the library is manned  ( 9-5 Mon - Fri) by appointment only.
Please email [email protected] to arrange a visit.
If you would like to update your contact details, please contact us at [email protected]
The Lates and the Factory events are open to alumni to attend free of charge.
We also offer other events as part of our industry insights programme.
To find out more about upcoming events contact [email protected]
If you are an employer and wish to advertise a job vacancy or internship please contact our Industry Liaisons on i [email protected] or call +44 (0)20 3040 3996.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/complaints:
Ravensbourne has a robust complaints process that supports students to address any issues you may have encountered during your time at Ravensbourne.
You can see further details of the policy and case studies for the complaints process, in addition to GDPR guidance on the Ravensbourne complaints intranet page .
When making a complaint there are a number of stages your issues will be addressed through.
You can read more detailed information about the full process and case studies of how our complaints are managed on the intranet section.
In the first instance, if possible, you should raise your concerns with the person in charge of the area you have a concern about.
This may include your course leader, your personal tutor or a staff member running a particular service.
If you’re not sure who to raise your concern with please email [email protected] .
If you have tried this or feel uncomfortable raising concerns directly you can proceed to make a formal complaint.
If raising your concerns directly is not appropriate, or has not resolved your issue, then you can proceed with a formal complaint.
You should complete the following form to begin this process.
If you would like to raise a formal complaint please complete the formal complaint form .
Appeals around academic results and decisions are handled via our academic appeal process.
Students can read more about academic appeals on the intranet on the following academic appeals page .
If you have concerns about the immediate wellbeing of a student please refer to our safeguarding page .
If you feel you do not want to raise your concerns directly but would like to highlight issues with Ravensbourne then consider submitting an anonymous report .
You may also want to return to our concerns and complaints homepage

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/anonymous-reporting:
Ravensbourne has a robust complaints process that protects and supports students.
However we recognise that sometimes people may not feel willing to reveal their personal details when raising concerns.
We still want to hear about problems or issues you may have faced during your time at Ravensbourne.
For this reason we allow students, staff and members of the public to raise anonymous reports.
These reports will be collated and with the support of the Students' Union fed back to decision making groups and teams within Ravensbourne.
This will help us to identify areas of additional concern that may be identified through our official complaints process.
As this is an anonymous report you will not be asked for any contact details and will be able to provide only general information about your area of concern.
If you want to move a complaint forward personally or discuss your issues in detail then please consider making a formal complaint.
You can read more about this in our section covering our complaints process.
As with our official complaints process we will publish an annual report for the public outlining anonymous reports that have been received.
To raise an anonymous report please complete the anonymous reporting survey
It’s important to remember that an anonymous report can not move forward as an official complaint.
If you are experiencing difficulties right now you have a number of options to access support.
If you have immediate concerns about the safety of a student then please review our safeguarding information .
Our team of wellbeing staff are here to help you deal with any issue or challenge you are currently experiencing.
Please get in touch on [email protected] and we’ll be able to discuss how we can help.
The RSU is led by recent graduates of Ravensbourne with the full intention of representing the student's voice.
Please contact them at [email protected]
SupportLine Advice and support for young people, in particular at risk or who have faced abuse.
Includes a telephone support line and advice on other services that can provide support.
YoungMinds Advice and support for young people facing issues around mental health.
Includes advice pages, self-help guides and support for young people in crisis.
The Mix Essential support for under 25s.
Phone, Email, Web support and Counselling.
Includes advice and guidance through live chats and an online support community.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/concerns-and-complaints/safeguarding:
Ravensbourne takes its statutory duty and moral responsibility very seriously, and student welfare is our top priority.
We have taken robust measures to safeguard children and adults and protect them from harm, in all of our activities and functions.
Contacting Ravensbourne with a safeguarding issue should not prevent you from contacting emergency services.
In any situation where you feel a student or another member of the public is in immediate danger please contact 999.
Our approach to safeguarding is set out in our Safeguarding Policy which is supported by further policies and processes outlined in the Policy and Process section below.
Lucy McLeod Head of Student Services 07568 103666 [email protected]
Jim Valentine Deputy Head of Student Services 07808 205058 [email protected] You may also want to complete our Safeguarding Report Form and send this by email to [email protected] You can also contact the NSPCC Helpline to discuss concerns you have around safeguarding.
They are available on 0808 800 5000 from 10 - 4 Monday to Friday.
You can also contact the NSPCC’s ChildLine on 0800 1111 - a free and confidential helpline.
You may also want to return to our Concerns and Complaints homepage if your issue does not relate to safeguarding.
Below you can view the policies and processes that underpin our approach to safeguarding in addition to specific information for students, staff, parents and others with may work with.
The following policies underpin Ravensbourne's approach to Safeguarding in addition to outlining processes that are followed after a safeguarding disclosure is made.
You will also find information here on our approach to the Prevent Duty and Academic Freedom.
During your studies at Ravensbourne your safety is looked after both formally and informally by the University.
The following guidance and areas of support may help you when you have concerns for yourself, another student, or anyone else in your life.
Please don't hesitate to reach out to the Safeguarding Team through the details at the start of this page if you wish to discuss any concerns.
Safeguarding students, and fellow staff, is everyone's responsibility at Ravensbourne.
The following guidance aims to help you identify areas of possible concern, understand the policies that underpin our approach and offers support and information on the steps taken following a safeguarding disclosure.
Please reach out to the Safeguarding contacts listed above if you have any questions or concerns related to safeguarding.
Parents who have concerns around safeguarding or support for their children should feel free to reach out to discuss these issues through the Safeguarding contacts listed above.
The following guidance outlines some key issues to consider, our approach to safeguarding, advice around teaching for under 18 year olds and referral steps following any disclosure.
If your concerns relate to teaching or broader support needs please contact Student Services
Third-party organisations at Ravensbourne have the same safeguarding responsibilites as our staff and volunteers.
If you have any safeguarding concerns or questions please reach out to the Safeguarding Team through the contact information above.
The following content outlines the approaches taken by Ravensbourne to protect and support our students and should be reviewed when working with Ravensbourne.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/concerns-and-complaints/student-consent-and-sexual-misconduct-support:
Students, staff, parents and others can see details of how complaints and concerns around sexual misconduct are managed here.
Further support information and guidance around many areas of abuse, control and safeguarding can found through our safeguarding hub on Ravensbourne's Safeguarding services.
Ravensbourne also asks newly enrolled students to join online training and advice sessions provided through our partnership with Survivors Network.
These build upon our established inductions and content to support students understanding of these complex issues and help ensure they are aware of support available.
These sessions are mandatory but if students feel they should not be required to attend the sessions then the process to let Student Services know is available on the intranet.
Students can also see more information on the sessions provided by Survivors Network and detailed guidance around consent and misconduct on our consent intranet pages here.
More information on safeguarding, consent issues, support available and details of how concerns are managed can be seen in our safeguarding hub here.
If you'd like more information on our complaints processes or need to know how to raise concerns, you can find this via our complaints hub.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/june-sarpong-and-misan-harriman-honoured-ravensbourne-university:
Television presenter, author, and activist June Sarpong, and acclaimed photographer, entrepreneur, and social justice advocate, Misan Harriman, have been awarded honorary doctorates by Ravensbourne University London in recognition of their outstanding contributions to the fields of broadcasting and photography, respectively.
The honorary degrees were presented to Sarpong and Harriman during Ravensbourne's winter graduation ceremony held at the Barbican, London, where both individuals also delivered an impactful speech to our graduating students.
June Sarpong has been a prominent figure in the media industry for over two decades, known for her work with major television networks such as ITV and Sky, and her commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion.
Her engaging and insightful approach to discussing important social issues has earned her widespread acclaim, making her a respected voice in the industry.
In addition to her achievements in broadcasting, Sarpong is an accomplished author, having written books that address pressing social challenges and inspire positive change.
Her advocacy work for equality and diversity has had a lasting impact on the media landscape, aligning with Ravensbourne University's commitment to preparing students to thrive in a diverse and rapidly evolving world.
It is a privilege to be recognized by an institution that values innovation, creativity, and the pursuit of positive social impact.
I think that the work that Ravensbourne does preparing its students for a thriving career in the creative industries and technology industries is superb.”
June Sarpong , Presenter, author, activist
Misan Harriman has gained international acclaim for his powerful and emotive photography, capturing iconic moments that transcend the boundaries of art and activism.
His unique ability to tell compelling stories through images has made him a trailblazer in the field, with a portfolio that includes capturing historic events, cultural moments, and portraits of influential figures.
He was the first black man to shoot a cover of British Vogue in the magazine’s 104-year history.
In addition to his remarkable career in photography, Harriman has consistently used his platform to advocate for social justice and equality.
His commitment to highlighting underrepresented voices and addressing systemic issues aligns seamlessly with Ravensbourne's mission to inspire students to make a positive impact in their chosen fields.
I am deeply honoured to receive this recognition from Ravensbourne University.
I am inspired by the university's commitment to nurturing the next generation of creative minds.”
Misan Harriman , Photographer, entrepreneur, social justice advocate
Andy Cook, Vice Chancellor at Ravensbourne, said, " We are delighted to have given June and Misan honorary doctorates.
We truly believe that their influence will continue to resonate within the university community and beyond, inspiring young creatives to use their talents for positive societal changes."

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/graduation-registration-and-tickets-winter:
We are delighted to announce that we will host this year's Graduation Ceremonies on Monday 20 October and Tuesday 2 December 2025.
If you are graduating on 20 October 2025, you will receive an email invitation by the end of August 2025 to book your tickets, gown and photography.
On Monday 20 October 2025, ceremonies will welcome the September undergraduate graduands.
If you are graduating on 2 December 2025 , you will receive an email invitation by the end of September 2025 to book your tickets, gown and photography.
On Tuesday 2 December 2025, ceremonies will welcome the May 2024 and September 2024 postgraduate cohort graduands given eligible awards from 1 June 2025 up to 10 October 2025.
Any students awarded past 10 October 2025 (including those going through retrievals past this date) will be invited to attend the next ceremony in 2026.
Deadlines to book are as below:
If you are undecided about coming, it is better to register and withdraw later if necessary.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students who are eligible to attend graduation will be invited via email.
If you are expecting to successfully complete your course, and providing that you have no outstanding debts to Ravensbourne (including library fines), you will be eligible to attend your graduation ceremony.
If you are uncertain about your eligibility, please email Registry.
All graduand tickets are free of charge and include a complimentary programme, and a glass of prosecco or soft drink.
You will receive an email invitation by the end of August for the October ceremonies and the end of September for the December ceremonies.
Those with retrievals will be invited later in September / October once their grades are confirmed.
The email will provide details on how to register for the ceremony and book guest tickets, photography, and gowns via Ede & Ravenscroft’s graduation services.
Please ensure you have your Student ID number (starting with "2") as it will ask for this.
For the December ceremony, only students given eligible awards from 1 June 2025 up to 10 October 2025 will be invited.
Guest tickets are £25 each.
All tickets include a complimentary glass of prosecco or soft drink.
These tickets will be allocated first come first served, and you will be emailed when these become available.
The deadline to purchase guest tickets online is as below:
More guest tickets will be available to buy on the day of Graduation at the Barbican.
They will be at the same price as the online sale, £25 per guest ticket, and will also include a complimentary glass of prosecco or soft drink.
No cash or contactless payments (including smartphones and smartwatches) will be accepted; please make sure to bring your debit or credit card.
Graduands and their guests will be seated separately.
Graduands will be seated together and, upon registering at the venue, will be given a ticket with a seat number.
Guests are free to choose where they sit within the Barbican's circle and balcony.
If you have any accessibility requirements and would like an accessible seat, please contact us .
Children under 5 years old do not require a ticket.
Children can attend the ceremony but it is an official formal ceremony that lasts over an hour so we do not recommend bringing babies or small children.
Children under 14 must be seated and accompanied by an adult.
There are no crèche facilities available at the venue and children of graduands must sit with guests instead of the graduand.
If you would like an aisle seat to have the option to easily exit the ceremony during its proceedings please contact us .
Buggies can be left at the Barbican cloakroom during the ceremony.
You cannot attend the graduation ceremonies whilst in debt to Ravensbourne.
These debts can consist of unpaid fees for tuition or accommodation, library fines, CLR fines and printing charges.
Debts also include unreturned books, DVDs or equipment.
Please make sure that you quickly clear any outstanding debts by contacting Finance on 020 3040 3721 or 020 3040 3723 or via email to [email protected] where payment can be made by debit or credit card.
If you choose not to attend your graduation ceremony, your official degree certificate will be sent to your permanent postal address.
If your permanent postal address has changed or is likely to change you must email Registry with your new address.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/graduation-gowning-and-photography-winter:
If you are graduating on 20 October 2025 , you will receive an email invitation by the end of August 2025 to book your tickets, gown and photography.
The email will provide details on how to register for the ceremony and book guest tickets, photography and gowns via Ede & Ravenscroft’s graduation services.
Please ensure you have your Student ID number as it will ask for this.
You will collect your gown on the day of the ceremony at The Barbican.
For this, you will need to present the booking reference number to the gowning staff from Ede & Ravenscroft.
The gown collection opens two hours prior to the ceremony to allow time to take photos.
Professional photography by Ede & Ravenscroft is available on the day at the Barbican.
We highly recommend that you book and pay for your photography in advance to reduce wait times, this will include a £7 delivery fee for pictures to be sent to your chosen address.
If for whatever reason you did not have the chance to take your graduation photographs before the ceremony, you can get them done after, but there may be a larger queue.
After the event (24 - 48 hours after) you will be sent a link to the photography ordering portal from Ede & Ravenscroft.
There you can review photos and select the image for each product you have ordered.
If you have not received an email with a link within 72 hours of your event taking place, please fill out the contact form below.
Ede & Ravenscroft are also now offering award presentation photography.
They will photograph each graduate as they are presented on stage.
These can be purchased on the day, at the graduation venue.
The prices are as follow:
This photograph is uploaded to Ede & Ravenscroft's website, usually within 7-10 working days.
Once ordered, photography products will be delivered within six weeks after the ceremony at which they were taken or four weeks after they were ordered, whichever is the later.
For full terms and conditions visit the supplier website for Ede & Ravenscroft.
The University has entered into a concession contract with our current gowning and photography suppliers and receives a commission from the hire and sale of academic dress/photography purchases.
For more information, please contact [email protected]
We’ve partnered with MyGraduationClip to offer our graduating students the ability to purchase a personalised video highlighting your special graduation moment center stage.
It will be sent directly to your email address shortly after the ceremony so you can share it with your family and friends.
It’s a great opportunity to celebrate your successes and achievements!
You can buy your GraduationClip before or after the ceremony via their online platform .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/visas-and-international-information-graduation:
Depending on the expiry date of your Tier 4/Student visa and the date of graduation, you may need to apply for a standard visitor visa from outside of the UK.
Check if you need to apply for a visitor’s visa to come to the UK and see the list of documents needed when applying for a standard visitor visa to the UK.
Students can now generate their invitation letter to support their visa application.
If you have completed your degree and have been invited to attend the graduation ceremony, follow these steps to download your invitation letter on SITS.
If your guests need to apply for a visitor’s visa to come to the UK to attend the Graduation Ceremony, they might need you to write them a letter of invitation.
If your guests require a letter to come on a visitor visa, you can download our template .
We only formally invite you, the graduand, and cannot invite guests individually to the graduation ceremonies.
We cannot provide any letters addressing guests by their names or stamp any documents to support your guest's visa application.
If you unable to attend your graduation ceremony but would still like be a part eventualities, our graduation ceremonies will be live-streamed via our website.
Have a look at the pages below and find out more about graduation.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/graduation-ceremony-monday-20-october-2025:
Our next graduation ceremony will take place on Monday 20 October 2025 .
This will be held at the Barbican Centre.
T he tickets for our October 2025 ceremony will come on sale on Friday 15 August 2025.
All eligible students will be contacted via email with details on how to book tickets, gowns, and photography from 15 August .
Have a look at the pages linked below to learn more about the Graduation Ceremony for October 2025.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/graduation-faqs-winter-ceremony:
We will be hosting Winter graduation ceremonies at The Barbican:
Monday 20 October 2025 - September undergraduate.
Tuesday 2 December 2025 - May and September postgraduate cohort.
Please see some of our most frequently asked questions.
Alternatively, contact us via email and a friendly staff member will be able to help.
Ceremony date
Booking deadline
Refund deadline
Monday 20 October 2025
Monday 22 September 2025, 5pm
Friday 10 October 2025, 11:59pm
Tuesday 2 December 2025
Tuesday 4 November 2025, 5pm
Friday 21 November 2025, 11:59pm
The email will provide details on how to register for the ceremony, book guest tickets, photography and gowns via Ede & Ravenscroft’s graduation services.
Please ensure you have your Student ID number.
Those with retrievals will be invited later in October/ November once they have their grades confirmed.
All graduand tickets are free of charge and include a complimentary programme.
Each graduand is allocated two guest tickets to purchase.
Any unsold guest tickets will be available to purchase in a secondary release of tickets.
These tickets will be allocated on a first come first served basis and you will be notified by email when these become available in October.
No, each ceremony has a set list of courses for those graduating.
You can find those on our Graduation page .
Yes, the graduation ceremonies will be live-streamed online.
You can view it online on our Graduation Live Stream page .
Please visit our Visas and International Information for Graduation webpage for more information.
There are several ways you can travel to The Barbican .
It is within walking distance to public transport links including the tube, train and bus.
Parking is also available if you are travelling by car and this can be booked in advance .
Ceremonies take place in a large theatre space with a stage.
Along with your fellow graduands, you will be invited up on stage to receive your scroll from our university academics.
The running order can be found in the printed programme you will receive on arrival.
The ceremony lasts approximately 1.5 hours and is followed by a drink reception.
We recommend arriving 2 hours prior to the ceremony to allow for time to collect your gown and take photographs.
Guest tickets will be available to buy on the day of Graduation at the Barbican.
They will be at the same price as the online sale, £25 per guest ticket and will also include a complimentary glass of prosecco or soft drink.
No cash or contactless payments (including smartphones and smartwatches) will be accepted, please make sure to bring your debit or credit card.
No, and it will not be printed in the programme.
The only exception will be for those graduands receiving firsts or distinctions.
Guests are free to choose where they sit within the circle and balcony.
Yes, but it is an official formal ceremony that lasts over an hour so we do not recommend bringing babies or small children.
When you register to attend please provide details of any access requirements.
Alternatively, contact us for further support.
If you would like to learn more about the Barbican's accessibility information, please visit our dedicated webpage .
You can also visit the Barbican's website .
The Barbican is situated in the City of London and is accessible by various public transport methods.
For details on how to get to the Barbican and parking options look at their visitor information.
You will collect your tickets, including any guest tickets, on the day of the ceremony at The Barbican.
Please bring your graduation ticket confirmation email and valid photographic ID e.g.
passport or driving license.
Registration opens 2 hours before the ceremony starts to allow time for collecting your gown and photos.
Gown collection opens 2 hours prior to the ceremony to allow time to take photos.
Professional photography by Ede & Ravenscroft is available at The Barbican on the ceremony day.
We highly recommend that you book and pay for your photography in advance to reduce wait times.
You can get your photos taken before the ceremony from when registration opens 2 hours before the ceremony starts.
If for whatever reason you did not have the chance to take your graduation photographs before the ceremony you can get them done after but there may be a larger queue.
If you arrive late we cannot guarantee that you will be able to go up on stage with the other graduands from your course to receive your degree.
Instead, we will try and slot you into the running order so that you will still get a chance to go up on stage.
Whilst masks are not mandatory, The Barbican encourages the wearing of face masks within its venue.
Please do not attend The Barbican if you are experiencing symptoms of Covid-19.
Hand sanitiser dispensers are available throughout the building and regular cleaning of touchpoints takes place.
The air units at The Barbican dispense 100% fresh air into the venue with direct extraction from the building.
You will be sent a link from Ede & Ravenscroft via email between 24 & 48 hours after your event.
This link will take you to their photography ordering portal where you can select the image for each product you have ordered.
If you have not received an email with a link within 72 hours of your event taking place please fill out the contact form below.
Photography products will be delivered within six weeks after the ceremony at which they were taken or 4 weeks after they were ordered, whichever is the later.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/graduation-live-stream:
Currently reading: Class of 2025
Have a look at the pages below and find out more about Graduation at Ravensbourne University.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/previous-graduation-ceremonies:
Congratulations to everyone that has graduated.
To watch recordings of our previous graduation ceremonies click on the links below:
Please be aware that certificates have already been posted.
If you still have not received it, please contact our Registry Team .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation/graduation-bursaries-and-refunds:
If your household income is £25,000 or less, and you were in receipt of the maximum maintenance loan from SFE in 2024/25 academic year, you will be eligible to apply for the Ravensbourne Graduation Bursary.
This award will help with the cost of your guest tickets, gown hire and photographs to record the day.
In some circumstances, funding towards travel expenses is also awarded.
Please complete the online application form and email the below evidence to Student Services .
Please note this bursary is only available to Home Undergraduate Ravensbourne University Students and excludes International students, postgraduate students, and Morley College and City & Guilds of London Art School.
We appreciate that for reasons beyond your control, you or your guest(s) may discover that you are unable to attend the ceremony.
You may cancel your order for your gown and/or guest tickets up to 8 working days before the ceremony date for a full refund.
Please see terms and conditions .
To request a refund complete the contact us form for Ede & Ravenscroft and one of their staff will get back to you.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/graduation-on-the-day:
Currently reading: Graduation booklet
Each ceremony has a set list of courses for those graduating.
Each graduand will be assigned a specific ceremony, in the morning (10am) or in the afternoon (2pm).
The ceremony lasts approximately an hour and a half and is followed by a drink reception.
We recommend arriving two hours prior to the ceremony to allow time to collect your gown and take photographs.
Remember to be on time and arrive two hours before the ceremony start time.
Collect your tickets
You will collect your student and guest tickets from the Box Office on Level -1.
More guest tickets (£25pp) will be available to buy on the day of graduation at the Barbican.
*Please note, no cash or contactless payments (including smartphones and smartwatches) will be accepted, please make sure to bring your debit or credit card.
Put your gown on
Gowns are to be collected from the Choir Room on Level -1.
For this, you must present the booking reference number to the gowning staff from Ede & Ravenscroft.
We recommend bringing a safety pin to help fasten your gown to your clothing.
You may also wish to bring some hair clips to ensure your hat fits well.
Get your photo taken
Professional photography by Ede & Ravenscroft is available in the Fountain Room on the Ground Floor.
If you haven't pre-booked this you can still buy a photography package on the day .
4.
Be seated for your ceremony
Graduands will have an allocated seat number in the stalls.
Guests are free to choose where they sit within the stalls, circle or balcony.
Make sure to bring with you the below on graduation day:
The order of the ceremony will be published here soon.
Download a copy of your digital graduation ceremony booklet here once it is published.
If you or your guests have any access requirements, we will make sure to organise the necessary arrangements.
Please inform us of any access requirements for you or your guests when you register for your graduation tickets or please contact us via email and a friendly staff member will be able to help.
Please find below accessibility information from The Barbican's website .
British Sign Language Interpreters are always present during our Graduation ceremonies.
If you would like a front-row seat near them, don't hesitate to get in touch with us at [email protected] .
It is within walking distance of public transport links including the tube, train and bus.
Parking is also available if you are traveling by car and this can be booked in advance .
Spaces for wheelchair users in row U at the rear of the stalls (up to sixteen, depth of row 180cm) and the back row of the circle (four), both with fold-down companion seats.
Some seats are in row S of the stalls for people with very limited mobility.
Assistance dogs may be taken into the concert hall where there are a limited number of suitable seats in row G of the stalls.
If you prefer, you may leave your dog with a member of the cloakroom staff during the ceremony.
There is an induction loop in the concert hall.
You can use this by adjusting your hearing aid to the ‘T’ setting.
For more details, please visit the Barbican's website .
The Conservatory is on the gallery floor (Level 3), reached via the main lifts.
Automatic glass doors (120cm wide) lead outside from the gallery floor and continue down a ramp (1:12).
The Conservatory is on your right, entered through double doors (135cm wide).
The Sculpture Court is on your left, up three steps or via a ramp.
There is limited access for wheelchair users and people with restricted mobility due to steps in some areas.
Assistance dogs are welcome.
Please visit the Barbican's website to learn more about the accessible toilets available at the Barbican Centre (Silk Street) and Beech Street cinemas.
Many of the toilets have double door entry (some single door) with automated push panel open and close controls and with a swipe lock and unlock door mechanism.
Some doors are not automated requiring them to be opened, closed and locked manually.
On the Barbican's website , you'll find full details and photographs of each accessible toilet and the facilities available in each room.
Priority is given to disabled people using these toilets.
Changing Places
A Changing Places facility is located within the Beech Street Cinema complex for the exclusive use of severely disabled people who need personal assistance to use the toilet.
For more information, please visit the Barbican's dedicated webpage .
The Barbican Centre is signposted on all main roads into the City.
The car parks are off Silk Street and off Beech Street (westbound access only).
There is a headroom restriction of 1.85m.
All car parks stay open until midnight.
There are accessible routes to all venues and lifts are available for anyone who needs them.
Please park in Car Park 5 as this currently the only easy access car park.
There will be a clear route from the blue badge bays to the lifts via the Lakeside.
If your blue badge has expired, please forward a new copy with your car registration number to [email protected] .
Free parking for Blue Badge-holders If you are an occasional visitor to the Centre, please take your Blue Badge to the cloakroom on the day of your visit in order to receive a complimentary car park voucher.
If you are a regular visitor to The Barbican Centre, there is an automated number plate recognition system in our car parks for Access Members who are blue badge-holders to allow for the free use of the Barbican car parks during visits to the Barbican Centre.
Find out how to become an Access Member .
To qualify for free parking please provide a copy of your blue badge (both sides), details of the number plate of the vehicle you regularly use (up to a maximum of three) and your access membership number to our graduation team [email protected] .
Available parking bays Car Park 5 provides flat access into the Centre where there will be a clear route from the blue badge bays to the lifts via the Lakeside.
There are 6 accessible bays in Car Park 5.
This is currently the most accessible car park.
Reserving a parking space Blue badge holders may reserve a wide parking bay in Car Park 3 or Car Park 5, subject to availability.
Book here and once you have chosen the date of your visit, you will be prompted to let us know whether you expect to arrive in the morning, afternoon or evening - though your space will be reserved for you all day!
You'll also be asked to confirm your car registration during the checkout.
Bookings must be made no later than 12 noon on the day before your visit.
Your vehicle registration number and the date and time of your booking will appear on the display stand notice located at your reserved parking bay, and will be confirmed on the e-ticket you receive when your reservation is complete.
Bookings can be made up to three calendar months in advance.
Cancelling a parking space The number of accessible parking bays available at the Barbican Centre is limited, so please remember to cancel your booking should you no longer require it.
Car park photographs View images of the entrance and accessible bays in Car Park 3 and Car Park 5 .
Visit the Barbican's website and take a tour of the Barbican's building and facilities available for all access needs, read their Access Guide and download their latest audio and large print guide plus browse their upcoming programme.
Hand sanitizer dispensers are available throughout the building and regular cleaning of touchpoints takes place.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/graduation-ceremony-tuesday-2-december-2025:
Our next graduation ceremony will take place on Tuesday 2 December 2025 .
This will be held at the Barbican .
All eligible students will be emailed from 26 September with details on how to book tickets, gowns and photography.
Have a look at the pages linked below to learn more about the Graduation Ceremony for December 2025.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-content-licence-motion-graphics-archive:
Hello.
These are a few rules for you...
they tell you what you can do with our content:
What does content mean?
We mean the BBC’s motion graphics examples which are being made available to you by Ravensbourne, and include text, images, artefacts, designs, metadata, music, and anything made by people using our services etc.
What can I use it for?
Read these terms before using our content.
Whenever you use our content you agree to these terms.
Provided you keep to these rules, the BBC grants you permission to download and use the BBC content but only…
You are not permitted to upload any of the content to any other websites.
If you’re intending to use it for any other purpose, for example….substantially to do your job – as an employee, contractor or consultant;
…you’ll need to get our separate permission first, and you might have to pay a fee - this content licence does not cover business use.
Do I need to get other permissions?
We don’t always own the copyright.
Our content often includes other people’s content, or we only have a licence to broadcast a programme and it’s the production company who owns it.
So you’ll have to ask them if you can use it (unless you already have permission, for example under an ERA licence) and make any necessary payments to them.
If we ask you, you’ll provide us with evidence that you’ve got these permissions.
Don’t use our content for harmful or offensive purposes.
Here are things that may harm or offend: insulting, misleading, discriminating or defaming (damaging people’s reputations); promoting pornography, tobacco or weapons; putting children at risk; anything illegal, like using hate speech, inciting terrorism or breaking privacy law; anything that would harm the BBC’s reputation.
5.
Don’t mess with our content.
That means this sort of thing: removing or altering watermarks, BBC logos, and copyright notices from the content; using it outside of the UK or helping others do the same, not immediately removing content from the device/systems/event/publication when we ask you to (which we can do at any time).
In exceptional cases you may have to recall a published paper, stop a screening, remove our content from an AV production or event.
6.
Don’t make it look like our content costs money.
If you show our content at an event, in a publication, in a production, on a website etc., that charges for content, you have to say that our content is free-to-view/listen to.
7.
Don’t make our content more prominent than non-BBC content.
Otherwise it might look like we’re endorsing you, which we’re not allowed to do.
Use our content alongside other stuff.
You can’t make a service of your own that contains only our content.
8.
Don’t exaggerate your relationship with the BBC.
You can’t say we endorse, promote, supply or approve of you.
Don’t use our content for political purposes.
And you can’t say you have exclusive access to our content.
9.
Don’t associate our content with advertising or sponsorship.
That means you can’t put any other content between the link to our content and the content itself (so no ads or short videos people have to sit through); put ads next to or over it; put any ads in a web page or app that contain mostly our content; put ads related to their subject alongside our content (so no trainer ads with an image of shoes); add extra content that means you’d earn money from our content.
10.
Don’t be misleading about where our content came from.
You can’t remove or alter the copyright notice, or imply that someone else made it.
11.
Don’t pretend to be the BBC.
That includes: using our brands, trade marks or logos without our permission; using or mentioning our content in press releases and other marketing materials; making money from our content (you can’t charge people to view our images, for example); sharing our content (for example, no uploading to social media sites).
Sharing links is OK.
12.
What you have to do: Use the content only in accordance with these rules, and display it accurately.
Add a credit (if it doesn’t already have one) to show where you got the content from (e.g.
“BBC © copyright content reproduced courtesy of the British Broadcasting Corporation.
All rights reserved.”).
13.
Can the BBC cancel my permission?
If you don’t stick to these terms of use the BBC may cancel your permission and we may refuse future requests for permission to use.
14.
Personal data.
If there’s personal data in our content (such as the name, or a picture, of someone taking part in a programme) the BBC is the data controller of it, and you are the data processor of it and must use it only for the purposes and duration described in your request.
We both must act in line with the Data Protection Act 2018 and any other applicable data protection law and guidance.
The BBC, as data controller, is also responsible for handling your name and address and any other personal data you provide to us on this form in line with data protection law.
We do this on the basis that the BBC has a legitimate interest in using your personal data for journalistic, artistic and literary purposes, and in the public interest.
For information on data protection, see the Information Commissioner’s website: https://ico.org.uk/ .
15.
A thing we have to say.
Apart from what we’re responsible for when there’s a mishap, we’re not liable for anything that happens to you if you use our content.
16.
Mishaps.
We take great care to make our content the best it can be.
So if something does go wrong, we are responsible only:
Be sure to get legal advice;
17.
Final stuff.
These terms of use replace all previous agreements between you and us about using this content.
This is a contract between you and us.
No one else has any rights to enforce its terms.
English law governs these terms of use, and only English courts can make judgments about them.
Our content is made available to you by the British Broadcasting Corporation, Broadcasting House, Portland Place, London W1A 1AA.
© BBC 2020

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/introduction-bbc-motion-graphics-archive:
a showcase of the history and development of motion graphics across the BBC and includes examples of opening titles, promotion trailers, stings, idents and programme content sequences.
The Archive currently covers the period from the 1940s until the early 2000s and it can be researched in a variety of ways eg by programme title, channel, named designer, genre, decade.
We have worked closely with around 150 BBC graphic designers who have shared invaluable knowledge of the techniques used to create the works over the years.
The Archive is for anybody interested in design, motion graphics or cultural and television history.
The material can be streamed or is downloadable for non-commercial educational or research purposes only under the terms of the BBC’s Content Licence for the Motion Graphics Archive (link to agreement on the homepage).
For commercial use, please contact Motion Gallery via http://www.motiongallery.com
The Archive is not intended to be an exhaustive selection of examples but it will expand over time to show contemporary professional practice commissioned by the BBC.
These will include a series of interviews with designers talking about their work, as well as images of a collection of digitised artefacts which shows the design and production processes used.
Motion Graphics has become an important study discipline at undergraduate and postgraduate levels in numerous academic institutions UK wide.
The Archive demonstrates the increasing importance of the role of motion graphics in television today in the promotion of channel brands and in engaging, entertaining and informing the viewer.
Please contact Ravensbourne at [email protected] if you have any questions or would like to contribute to the site.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/40-minutes-1985:
‘40 Minutes’ was a documentary series broadcast between 1981 and 1994.
The films covered a wide range of subjects, the only criteria being that they lasted for 40 minutes.
The subjects included the vanished world of Yorkshire miners, the Outcasts biker club, three Brits competing in the Sumo World Championships and 48 hours in the life of the Angel tube station.
The titles therefore had to be content neutral and an effort was made to avoid the obvious clichés of clock faces, ticking hands and swinging pendulums.
Instead Marcel Duchamp’s famous ready-made, ‘Objects to be Destroyed’, which featured a metronome with an eye attached to it, was the inspiration.
This showed a different record of time that also had a strangely mesmerising quality to it.
The twist was that at the start of the title sequence, the eye remained closed, only opening in the final seconds, suggesting that ‘40 Minutes’ would open your eyes to the wonders around you.
A model of a contemporary version of Duchamp’s metronome was made.
An opening eye was filmed as live action separately and then the frames were printed out as a series photographs which could be attached to the arm of the metronome.
This was then filmed as a stop-frame animation and music was specially composed by Carl Davis to match the beat.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/chronicle-1989:
Title sequence for a long-running flagship archaeology programme strand.
The idea was to create an impression of passing archaeological sites from around the world  such as the pyramids, a Greek amphitheatre, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon etc.
Realism was essential to reflect the integrity of the subject matter.
Computer-generated imagery was avoided because at that time of early CGI it wasn’t possible to create realistic imagery and would have been more suitable for a games show, hence the use of physical models and sets.
We reveal that each building is in fact a letter from the title ‘Chronicle’.
Each letter was a model in its own right measuring about 45cm from top to bottom and the entire width of the word Chronicle (all letters) measured about 335cm.
The background of sand, which the letters were placed on, was delivered to the studio in Central London by a lorry and was tipped over to cover the entire studio floor.
The model was lit with one light only, in order to represent the sun.
This lighting therefore created the illusion of total reality.
The sequence consisted of just one continuous shot, starting with the camera pulling out from the letter ‘C’ which was styled as an amphitheatre, and pulling back through other letters in the style of various historical sites to reveal the name of the programme 'Chronicle'.
The model was shot and lit by Doug Foster at Cell Animation on 35mm film using a periscope lens suspended from the ceiling.
Model Maker - Alan Kemp.
Concept and Creative Direction - Liz Friedman.
Gold Award Broadcast Designers Association (BDA).
Gold Pixel Award IMAGINA.
Finalist Royal Television Society (RTS) Awards for Graphic Design.
Chronicle C concept drawing 1
Chronicle C concept drawing 2
Chronicle C concept drawing 3
Chronicle H concept drawing 1
Chronicle H concept drawing 2
Chronicle H concept drawing 3
Chronicle H concept drawing 4
Chronicle R concept drawing 1
Chronicle O concept drawing 1
Chronicle O concept drawing 2
Chronicle O concept drawing 3
Chronicle N concept drawing 1
Chronicle N concept drawing 2
Chronicle I concept drawing 1
Chronicle I concept drawing 2
Chronicle L concept drawing 1
Chronicle L concept drawing 2
Chronicle L concept drawing 3
Chronicle L & E concept drawing
Chronicle E concept drawing 1
Chronicle E concept drawing 2
Chronicle concept letters 1
Chronicle concept letters 2
Chronicle concept letters 3
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 4
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 5
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 6
Chronicle alternative C concept drawing 7
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 4
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 5
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 6
Chronicle alternative H concept drawing 7
Chronicle alternative R concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative O concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative O concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative O concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative N concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative N concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative I concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative I concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative I concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative L concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative L concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative L concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative L concept drawing 4
Chronicle alternative E concept drawing 1
Chronicle alternative E concept drawing 2
Chronicle alternative E concept drawing 3
Chronicle alternative E concept drawing 4
Chronicle alternative E concept drawing 5
Chronicle model shoot with snorkel motion control camera 1
Chronicle model shoot with snorkel motion control camera 2
Chronicle model shoot with snorkel motion control camera 3
Chronicle model shoot with snorkel motion control camera 4 (and designer Liz Friedman)
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 1
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 2
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 3
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 4
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 5
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 6
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 7
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 8
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 9
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 10
Chronicle model by Alan Kemp 11
Chronicle press cutting 1
Chronicle press cutting 2
Chronicle press cutting 3
Chronicle press cutting 4
Chronicle press cutting 5
Chronicle press cutting 6
Chronicle press cutting 7
Chronicle press cutting 8
Chronicle press cutting 9
Chronicle press cutting 10
Chronicle press cutting 11

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/bbc2-christmas-tin-toy-ident-1993:
‘Tin Toy', a seasonal BBC2 ident was created for Christmas in 1993.
The narrative follows the journey of a discarded tin '2' decoration to the top of a tree, aided by a host of willing collaborators.
A complex single frame shoot, involving a set, articulated puppets and effects, was filmed in 35mm stop frame animation and lit by a large tent-like golden reflective cyclorama.
If you watch the candles you can see the passage of time.
Model animation - 3 Peach.
Animators - Joan Ashford and Martin Pullen.
Lighting Cameraman - Stephen Macmillan.
Editor - Mike McGee.
Music - Music Sculptors.
Designers/Directors - Jane Fielder and Iain Greenway.
Winner of a Design & Art Direction Wood Pencil for Television Graphics/Brand Identity 1995.
Winner of the BAFTA Television Craft Award for Graphic Design 1994.
BBC2 Christmas - Tin Toy ident style frame

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/bbc-two-winter-wave-ident-2000:
‘Wave' was one of the six BBC Two channel idents designed for the Winter campaign 2000 which also included ‘Excalibur’, ‘Catalyst’, ‘Woodpecker’, ‘Predator’ and ‘Daleks’.
These were the first series of idents to be shot 16 x 9 and were released on January 1st 2000 for the new millennium.
'Wave' was shot using a specially constructed tank to which the camera rig was locked.
The rotation of the tank and camera together allowed for the motion of the waves to be captured whilst retaining a level horizon line.
The effect was achieved by combining liquids that don’t mix and was shot at 100 frames per seconds, all in-camera.
A darker moonlit version was also created for late night use.
Lighting Cameraman - Stephen MacMillan.
Inferno Artist - Johnny Hicks at Glassworks.
Model Makers - Asylum.
Music - Tony & Gaynor Sadler.
Producer - Janice Beale.
Designers/Directors - Mark Chaudoir and Tim Platt.
The campaign was the winner of a Design & Art Direction Wood Pencil for Television Graphics/Brand Identity 2000.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/county-hall-1982:
‘County Hall' was a title sequence for a drama series about life in the corridors of power of local government.
I designed a logo for the series in the form of an official crest from which Stephen Greenfield created the 3 metre model.
The model was filmed using a computer controlled 35mm snorkel lens camera at Oxford Scientific Films.
The movement of the steel ball as it rolled around the labyrinth of featureless corridors was partly hand animated by an operator underneath the set using a powerful magnet.
Much of the action was shot in real time, either by rolling the steel ball or by tilting the set to allow it to gain momentum.
Lighting Cameraman - Douglas Adamson.
Editor - David Farlie.
Music Composer - Martin Cook.
Modelmaker - Stephen Greenfield Associates.
Designer/Director - Michael Graham-Smith.
Winner of a Design & Art Direction Wood Pencil for Television Graphics/Drama 1983.
Nominated for the Royal Television Society's Craft & Design Award.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/tomorrows-world-1976:
This title sequence for 'Tomorrow's World', the popular science programme, was very influential in its time.
As with all long running programmes, the titles were generally redesigned every few years in order to keep the programme looking fresh and innovative.
Not such an easy brief for a programme concerned with science at the cutting edge.
Pauline Talbot (Carter) solved the problem with considerable flair through a sequence of beautifully shot and edited cameos of the letters that spelled out the programme title.
Each title letter was formed by a different object or substance, animated in an intriguing way for the camera.
How the effects were achieved was the subject of a competition that the programme ran for its viewers.
Here are the answers.
The opening logo was formed from glitter and struck from beneath to make it fly upwards.
The T was a Visual Effects cocktail of chemical foam reversed in the optical.
The O consisted of large 6 inch nails standing on their heads - filmed slightly over-cranked as they were blown over and then reversed in the optical.
M was a metal 3D model mechanically raised up by Visual Effects out of a tank of mercury.
O was an egg white and yolk, cooked separately in moulds and re-combined in the pan and filmed live action with the bacon, with a zoom in on the egg.
R was made of silver ball bearings (one gold) held in place magnetically and released, filmed high speed and reversed in the optical.
R was a metal cut-out with over-cranked live action flames from a gas burner behind.
O was a model cast in solder and filmed as it melted and was reversed in the optical.
W was puff pastry cut to shape and baked in an adapted microwave, speeded up in the optical.
S was white pills (one pink) set up and struck from beneath and reversed in the optical.
The logo was made of silver dragées in a shallow recessed cut-out which were washed away by a mercury flow, over cranked and reversed in the optical.
Music - John Dankworth.
Director of Photography - Brian Tufano.
Visual Effects - Ian Scoones.
Designer/Directors - Pauline Talbot (Carter) and Richard Loncraine.
Winner of the Design & Art Direction Silver Award for the Most Outstanding Programme Titles 1976.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/doctor-who-version-5-slitscan-1974:
Because the lead actor Jon Pertwee left the show after one season, I had to make a version with Tom Baker that same year with a minimal budget.
I used the 'Slitscan' technique that had been developed by Special Effects Designer Doug Trumbull for Director Stanley Kubrick's iconic 1968 sc-fi movie '2001'.
Trumbull had generously written an article, explaining the process in detail.
The computer-controlled rostrum camera exposed one single frame at a time while tracking back up its column and filming a back-lit outline version of the shape (the slit) with which the tunnel effect was to be generated, such as a circle, a diamond or even the shape of something or someone.
This was repeated for every frame, with the artwork behind the slit moving incrementally on each frame to generate the moving tunnel with the desired shape.
In this sequence a circular slit made a circular tunnel, an outline slit of the Police telephone box made a Tardis-shaped tunnel and a diamond slit created a diamond-shaped tunnel for the new logo at the end of the sequence.
Each frame took about 30 seconds to expose.
Whereas Trumbull had a huge studio to give him a great length of scan, I could only use the 5 feet or 150 centimetres that the rostrum camera could track up its column.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/young-musician-year-1978:
The title sequence for the BBC's biennial competition 'Young Musician of the Year' (since 2010 called 'BBC Young Musician') which celebrated emerging young British musicians between the ages of 12 and 18.
This programme is much loved and I wanted to create titles that were a little light, fun and whimsical for the sequence.
Animation would be a good technique to use, so I created a sketch-like storyboard, showing how each of the four instrument categories in the competition might be revealed.
I filmed extreme close-ups of children playing their instruments against a white backdrop, and then worked with an editor to select the best shots.
We built an edited sequence including the logo to match the existing music.
This template was then sent to the animation company to rotoscope frame by frame (we also gave the animators extended clips to allow them to draw the extra frames required for dissolves and mixes).
The animation builds from air-play hands to reveal the instrument that is being played, which adds an element of fun.
Note also the subtle build from black and white to colour for each reveal.
Designer/Director - Bob English.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/wallace-and-gromit-christmas-mince-pies-ident-1995:
The 1995 Christmas campaign on BBC2 was a wonderful collaboration with Nick Park at Aardman Animation.
A series of comical scenarios were designed highlighting a mischievous '2' character - the irritating little relative that has come to stay for Christmas.
Great care was taken to make sure that the characters of Wallace and Gromit were retained and that there were plenty of opportunities for Gromit to raise a disapproving eyebrow.
Models of the '2' were created in plasticine and manipulated in exactly the same stop frame animation method as all Aardman animations of the time.
Sets were built in keeping with the existing Wallace and Gromit house style.
The animation was done over many weeks due to the slow and intricate model making, manipulation and animation.
Designers/Directors - Jane Wyatt (now Wyatt-Brooks) and Iain Greenway.
Winners of the BAFTA Craft Award for Graphic Design 1996.
Wallace and Gromit Christmas idents storyboard
Wallace and Gromit Xmas idents production stills
Wallace and Gromit Christmas idents press release
Wallace and Gromit Christmas '1st Post' publicity
Wallace and Gromit Christmas idents BAFTA article
Wallace and Gromit Christmas idents Ariel article

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/paul-daniels-magic-show-1985:
CGI was perfect for the titles of a magic and illusion series.
The designer Graham Kern aimed at achieving “a continuous transformation between different objects, as exquisite and seamless as conjuring”.
The computer generated animation was created at Cal Videographics.
Animator - Gareth Edwards.
Designer/Director - Graham Kern.
Winner Montreux Festival Gold Award.
Winner of a Design & Art Direction Wood Pencil for Television Titles 1986.
The Paul Daniels Magic Show screenshot
The Paul Daniels Magic Show storyboard 1
The Paul Daniels Magic Show storyboard 2

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/musical-time-machine-1977:
The titles for the series ‘The Musical Time Machine’, presented by Vince Hill, featuring great music of the past, present and possibly future, computed by the musical time machine.
Designer Alan Jeapes made the multi-screen technique his own signature design style.
It was a technique he revisited a number of times during the course of a long and distinguished career as a BBC Senior Designer, discovering, as the technology developed, ever more visually inventive ways of manipulating large numbers of images in order to achieve a specific design for a programme title sequence, as can be seen in the titles for ‘Call me Mister’, ‘Tribal Eye’, ‘Spender’ and ‘Trade Union Studies’ to name but a few.
His design for ‘The Musical Time Machine’ was a visually and technically complex sequence of multiscreen images and was an impressive example of what can be achieved with a selection of specially shot transparencies.
A large selection of musical instruments was photographed in the studio on a black background and mounted in groups in separate black mounts.
These were filmed backlit on a computer-controlled rostrum camera as separate layers superimposed over one another, with the camera tracking in on each layer at a different speed.
At specific synch points in the music, determined by a frame count of the music track, additional instruments were superimposed, zooming up and past camera at varying speeds, as well as the programme logo which maintained a central trajectory with a streak effect at the end of the zoom.
The visually intriguing end result belied the complexity of the preparation and filming of a multi-screen effect such as this.
With today’s digital technology it would be far easier to achieve on a Flame or similar device.
In 1977 it was captured all on 35mm film and also in-camera, without the need for editing or complex film opticals.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/bbc2-moon-landing-ident-1994:
'Moon Landing' was an ident created to mark the 25th anniversary of the first moon landing.
The iconic window shot was replicated and the craft's shadow was replaced by that of the '2'.
Created in a lo-tech way using a plastic airfix style model, the '2' was approximately 20cm high.
The surface of the moon was created using polyfiller and was filmed on a rostrum camera.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/1991-bbc2-rebrand-paint-ident:
The Two logo, designed by Alan Jeapes and launched in 1986, was coming to the end of its life by the end of the decade.
It had originally been created by computer in response to a brief which reflected the Channel Controller Graeme MacDonald's aspiration for a more sophisticated and highbrow output.
In 1987 a new BBC2 Controller was appointed, Alan Yentob, previously the BBC's Head of Music and Arts.
He disliked the Two branding and in response to viewer surveys which found the Two to be "too dull and worthy," he commissioned a Brand Identity strategic review and redesign from design consultant Martin Lambie-Nairn.
The result was that a Gill Sans Extra Bold '2' and the BBC2 viridian brand colour became the chief components of the new channel branding that went on-air in February 1991, using the ‘2’ logo in innovative and visually striking ways.
This ident was among the first tranche of new BBC2 idents to be aired.
Model Makers - Bob Hinks, Mark Curtis and Steve Wilsher.
Lighting Cameraman - Doug Foster, Cell Animation.
Animator - Rob Harvey.
Music - Anthony and Gaynor Sadler.
Creative Director - Martin Lambie-Nairn.
Designer/Director - Daniel Barber.
Winner of the BAFTA Craft Award for Graphic Design/BBC Network Identities 1992.
Winner of a Design & Art Direction Yellow Pencil for Television Graphics/Promotion 1991.
'Print' article on TV design 1
'Print' article on TV design 2
'Print' article on TV design 3
'Print' article on TV design 4
'Print' article on TV design 5
'Print' article on TV design 6

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bbc-motion-graphics-archive/bbc-news-countdown-trail-2003:
A 70-second version of a countdown sequence designed to lead up to the hourly news bulletin.
It was populated with a beautifully edited compilation of pixellated images speeding up reality, intercut with normal speed activity, all combining to give a broad overview of society at work and play, as the numerical clock clicked inexorably down to 00.
The music, specially composed by David Lowe for BBC News, drove the pace with its urgency, incorporating, as a prominent feature, the relentless repetition of the BBC pips, which were already so familiar from the hourly news broadcast on BBC Radio.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/undergraduate-bursaries:
Ravensbourne University London is committed to supporting our students who find themselves in financial hardship that may jeopardise their ability to continue with study.
Please be advised that although we do have some bursaries available to students who are not eligible for funding from the UK Government, the majority are designed to work alongside the funding offered by Student Finance England*.
Therefore, if a student chooses not to apply for a maintenance loan or only takes some of what is available to them, we will not be able to support them further.
*When applying for Student Finance, students must ensure that they have enabled ‘consent to share’ details of household income.
Failure to do so will result in us not being able to assess them for our bursaries.
Please see below the bursary offer for 2025/26 academic year**.
If you have any questions in the meantime, please contact [email protected]
**Ravensbourne bursaries are subject to change.
Students will not have to apply for the scheme, they will be emailed with details of how to activate their account within 4 weeks of confirmation of registration on course.
If students already own an appropriate laptop, they can apply the Aspire scheme credit to other course equipment on the online shop such as tablets and digital equipment or design materials.
Students or parents will be able to top up the funds on the card during the year.
Students with a household of £25,000, as declared to Student Finance England, will receive an automatic cash award of £500 per academic year of study.
The Ravensbourne bursary is available to home/UK undergraduate students, who:
Students do not need to apply as they will automatically be assessed for eligibility against our criteria when they apply for Student Finance with the Student Loans Company .
When will it be paid?
Year 1 & 2 (level 4 & 5) students will receive £500 on or around 2 February 2026 following successful progression to Semester 2.
Year 3 (level 6) students will receive £500 cash on 30 November 2025 following confirmation of attendance on course.
The internal progression award is a one-off award of £500 paid at the start of February of the student's first year on their undergraduate course.
This award is available to all new undergraduate students who have progressed directly from a Foundation Diploma or Access to HE Course at Ravensbourne in the previous academic year.
Qualifying students are not required to apply for this award.
Payment will automatically be arranged following confirmation of attendance in Semester 2 at the start of February in the first year of an undergraduate course.
For more information on internal progression
This bursary provides financial support to students entering higher education direct from Local Authority Care.
It is a lump sum payment of £1000 payable at the start of February following confirmation of attendance in Semester 2.
Students must:
(Care leavers in receipt of a Ravensbourne bursary can still receive the Care leavers bursary).
Students should advise Student Finance England when applying for tuition fee and maintenance loans of their care leaver status.
They will be required to provide confirmation of care experience letter from their local authority for care leaver status to be approved.
If you need assistance with this process, please contact [email protected]
Students with SFE Care Leaver status will automatically be eligible for this £1000 award.
Ravensbourne has additional financial support available for our estranged/independent students in the form of a lump sum payment of £1000, payable at the start of February following confirmation of attendance in Semester 2.
(Estranged/independent students in receipt of a Ravensbourne bursary can still receive estranged/independent student support).
Students should apply for Estranged/Independent status when applying for their tuition fee and maintenance loans from Student Finance England (SFE).
For 'estranged' status - you will be asked to provide third party supporting evidence.
If you require assistance with your application, please contact [email protected]
For 'under 25 and financially independent' status - you will be required to provide financial evidence to demonstrate your independence for the period of 3 years prior to the first day of your course.
For September 25/26 intake; 1-9-2022 to 1-9-2025.
Students with approved SFE 'irreconcilably estranged' or 'under 25 and financially independent' status will automatically be eligible for this £1000 award.
If you are a carer, there is likely to be a significant impact on your wellbeing as a result of your caring role.
Ravensbourne are able to offer you some additional financial support.
And provide evidence of one of the following categories:
Students should contact Student Services providing evidence listed above.
Eligible students will receive £1000 payable at the start of February upon confirmation of attendance in Semester 2.
Applications will need to be made for each year of study.
Ravensbourne will reimburse students in receipt of DSA equipment allocation the £200 they are required to pay to access their support.
Students in receipt of DSA equipment allocation.
Once DSA is confirmed, students should complete the online application form and supply a copy of the receipt of payment.
For 24/25 Graduates, you may be eligible to apply for the Ravensbourne Graduation Bursary.
This award will help with the cost of your tickets, gown hire and photographs to record the day.
Student must:
Please complete the online application form and supply
Please email your evidence to Student Services .
Please note: For the following bursaries, in addition to the evidence requested, Ravensbourne will check attendance, academic progress and engagement as part of our assessment process.
Financial support towards accommodation costs based on individual needs’ assessment.
Students should contact the Student Services Team directly if they find themselves homeless or in crisis.
The student opportunity fund provides additional support to home undergraduate students who are facing unforeseen financial difficulties.
Awards are made based on individual need assessment.
Student opportunity funding is available to home undergraduate students, who:
Students are asked to complete the on-line application form * and supply copies of the following evidence:
Depending on individual circumstances, students may also be required to meet with the Financial Support Coordinator to discuss additional forms of support and money management.
*online application form will go live on 1-9-2025 for September 2025 intake.
Ravensbourne is committed to providing assistance to our students who find themselves in financial hardship.
Students are asked to complete the online application form * and supply copies of the following evidence:
This bursary is aimed at mature learners joining an undergraduate degree course at Ravensbourne in September 2025/26.
Priority will be made to mature learners joining direct from completing an Access to HE course in 2024/25 academic year.
Eligible students will receive £1000 towards the cost of sustenance, travel and course equipment.
If requested, funding can be added to the student’s Aspire account to help towards the cost of a laptop.
Student must be:
Students will need to complete the on-line application form and supply the following supporting evidence:
This bursary is available to international students who face an unexpected financial crisis that may jeopardise their ability to continue with study.
Small discretionary payments to offer interim support could be offered to eligible students.
In some cases, the funding will be offered in the form of food vouchers.
Students should:
Please be advised that there is no financial support available towards tuition fees and funding cannot be offered to students with tuition fees outstanding.
Please complete the online application form and provide the following supporting evidence:
We will not be able to assess your eligibility for funding support without this evidence.
Please email your evidence to [email protected]
Please be advised that we will request an attendance and progress update from your tutor to aid in our assessment process.
The Save the Student Bursary is aimed at helping prospective students from low-income and disadvantaged backgrounds access the essential items they need to begin their university journey.
Save the Student awards £750 to six new students – a total of £4,500, jointly funded by their partners at JS Group .
The funding is administered via the JS Group's award-winning Aspire Cash service, ensuring a quick, easy and secure delivery of the funds.
Students will be able to use the bursary to purchase laptops, bedding, kitchenware, and other university essentials.
Eligibility Students must be:
Full details can be found here - please note that entries for 2025/6 are now closed.
Key dates:
Entries for 2025/6 are now closed, check back ahead of the next academic year for updates.
Ravensbourne is partnered with International Students House (ISH) to give our international students access to financial support from the Mary Trevelyn Hardship Fund .
Students must meet all of the following criteria to apply for the Mary Trevelyan Hardship Fund:
Please complete the online application form and submit the required supporting evidence.
If you have any questions with regards to your application, please contact [email protected]

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/clearing/clearing-advice-parents-and-guardians:
Currently reading: What is Clearing?
Clearing is the name of the process universities use to fill any available spaces on their courses.
It is an exciting opportunity for students to get into a university and on a course that best suits them.
Last year, over 70,000 UK students secured their university place through Clearing.
Clearing is a great option if your child has:
changed their mind about where or what they’d like to study
not met the conditions of their offers
not received any offers
received better grades than predicted
rejected all their offers
applied after 30 June
not applied through UCAS at all
only just decided to go to university
taken a year out/gap year and already has qualifications.
The Clearing process can seem daunting but there are practical steps that you can take to help your child get organised and prepared ahead of results day.
Our friendly team are on hand to answer general Clearing questions on +4420 3040 3998 .
Please note that due to data protection regulations, we can only discuss confidential information (such as details of an offer) directly with the student.
However, we are able to provide general advice and guidance to help you navigate the Clearing process.
If your child is planning to call us, you can encourage them to have the following things at hand:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-students-collaborate-daniel:
A new generation of graphic design talent from Ravensbourne University London joined forces with celebrated alumni Daniel Eatock to launch a collaborative exhibition in the heart of Shoreditch running from 18-25 July, marking his 50th birthday and the culmination of a unique creative collaboration.
Held at the Art Practice gallery, the Halfway to 100 brought together Ravensbourne staff, students, and leading figures from the design industry to celebrate a 'solo group show', with all concepts devised by Eatock and every artwork created by students from Ravensbourne’s BA (Hons) Graphic Design course.
The project offered the Ravensbourne community a chance to share Eatock’s singular vision.
Eatock was keen to point out that his own experience as a student had been transformed by a book that he had encountered in the Ravensbourne library; this project continues that tradition of transformation.
Shows in central London galleries are a vital way for designers to network.
Eatock’s generosity has placed Ravensbourne students at the centre of that space.”
Andrew Osman , Senior Lecturer, Department of Design, Ravensbourne University London
Working from his recent book ‘I invite you to’, Eatock led a series of workshops, guiding students through 100 playful prompts designed to challenge conventional thinking and explore reductive, conceptual forms.
The resulting show featured 50 diverse and thought-provoking pieces, each one a creative response shaped by personal interpretation, experimentation, and an openness to the unexpected.
The exhibition offered a space for public celebration, along with a professional platform for students to connect with practitioners across the creative industries.
Attendees included Ravensbourne’s Vice Chancellor, Jon Kingsbury, who spent time engaging with students and learning more about their experience on the project.
Eatock’s relationship with Ravensbourne continues to be a source of inspiration, and Halfway to 100 reflects our ongoing commitment to giving students the opportunity to collaborate with industry professionals, equipping them with the skills and confidence to pursue their chosen careers.
To find out more about Eatock, read our Built for Industry blog on his work here .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/ravensbourne-university-london-students-dixonbaxi-creative:
A group of students from Ravensbourne University London’s BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course were recently invited to take part in the latest series of The DixonBaxi Way, a nationally renowned video podcast produced by leading global brand agency DixonBaxi.
As part of ‘Chapter One, Episode Three: Cultivating Collaboration,’ the students visited DixonBaxi’s east London studio to enjoy a roundtable discussion exploring the importance of collaboration in the creative industries.
The series, now in its third season, offers insight into how creativity can be harnessed to drive innovation, fuel careers, and shape future disciplines.
This was a powerful way to bridge the gap between industry and education and provide helpful, real-world advice for young aspiring creatives.”
Paula Williams , Course Leader BA (Hons) Advertising & Brand Design, Ravensbourne University London
The DixonBaxi Way shares advice, insights, and reflections from some of the leading voices in branding and design.
This latest season puts a spotlight on key themes such as education, career journeys, skill-building, and the evolving nature of teamwork within the creative sector.
Students Mae Farley, Dominic Ofoedu, Daisy Okonkwo and Luis Ramsey represented Ravensbourne in the conversation, discussing their experiences of entering the industry and the importance of collaboration in creative practice.
By involving students from diverse backgrounds, DixonBaxi sought to ensure a wide range of perspectives were captured, with participants reflecting on everything from education and portfolios to entering the workplace and future trends within the creative economy.
The third season, which launched on June 10, can be viewed alongside the rest of The DixonBaxi Way series on their website .
Ravensbourne is extremely proud to have been invited by DixonBaxi, and we are delighted to have harnessed our resources to equip students with the skills that industry tell us they need.
Find out more about our dynamic Advertising and Brand Design courses here .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/ravensbourne-university-london-students-propose-bold-redesigns-iconic:
Students from Ravensbourne University London’s architecture, interiors and landscape courses recently completed a powerful live project in collaboration with the Balham and Tooting Community & Sports Club (BTCSC), a vital hub founded by Windrush pioneers in 1970.
The project, which ran throughout the spring term, saw Ravensbourne’s first year students work closely with the club to explore refurbishment ideas that would preserve its cultural legacy while meeting the evolving needs of the community.
What I’ve noticed since I came in is that all these students — they work and collaborate together.
No one’s acting like their work is better than anyone else’s.
They’re all admiring each other’s ideas and efforts.
And for that, I’m very, very proud of them.”
Lorina Mayne , President of the Balham and Tooting Community & Sports Club
In May, students presented their final proposals to members of BTCSC at a special event held on-site.
These ranged from reimagining the club’s restaurant as a vibrant social heart of the building, to adding a new children’s play centre, open-air cinema, and performance stage — all designed to honour the Caribbean roots while expanding its role in the community.
Working under the guidance of Ravensbourne's architecture lecturers, students engaged deeply with BTCSC’s history, which included surveying the building, documenting oral histories from members, and designing thoughtful prototypes that reflected the club’s identity in the heart of south London.
What’s been amazing is seeing just how high the level of work is — for first-year students, some of the outcomes have been incredibly impressive.
Our vision is that, in three years’ time, one of our students could walk past this building and see that it’s been refurbished — using ideas they helped create.
That’s incredibly powerful.
It’s a way of giving students a real sense of purpose and impact, while also supporting a community with deep cultural roots.”
Alberto Villanueva , Head of Architecture, Ravensbourne University London
BTCSC was originally founded by 18 members — many of whom had served in the RAF — and community leaders from the Windrush Generation.
For more than 50 years, it has provided social, cultural and welfare support to local residents — from sports and cooking to storytelling and community events.
However, the building is now in need of investment and reimagining to remain fit for purpose.
The final proposals, which were presented directly to club members and trustees, offered creative and respectful ideas for restoring the building’s functionality, accessibility, and symbolic importance.
At Ravensbourne, we use our resources — our courses, our connections, and our local community to equip students with the skills that industry tell us they need.
To find out more about our architecture, interiors and landscape courses, visit our course page.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/ravensbourne-university-london-hosts-mode-festival-part-two-day-motion:
Between 26 and 27 June 2025, Ravensbourne University London hosted Mo:De Festival, a vibrant two-day celebration of motion design.
The festival brought together industry leaders, students and educators to champion diverse voices, showcase cutting-edge creative work and explore the evolving intersections of motion design, technology and storytelling.
Being exposed to events like this helps students understand what kinds of roles are available, whether they’re more technical or more conceptual.
That kind of insight boosts confidence and helps them better visualise where they could fit in the industry.”
Ray Chong , Experimental Designer, Field.IO
The name Mo:De reflects the multiple modes of curiosity, collaboration and expression that define the field of motion design.
The colon at its centre symbolises the ongoing dialogue between industry and education that sits at the heart of Ravensbourne’s approach.
Introducing students to the people who are making the work they admire, and to the studios they aspire to join, is essential.
This is their opportunity to meet their heroes face-to-face and start building those relationships.”
Adrian Baxter , BA (Hons) Motion Graphics course leader, Ravensbourne University London
Across two packed days, attendees heard from an exciting line-up of speakers representing some of the world’s leading motion design studios, including FIELD.IO, Cavalry, FutureDeluxe, Golden Wolf, Art&Graft, Ditroit, Tomorrow Bureau, and Builders Club.
Presentations explored everything from creative workflows and studio culture to the latest innovations in design and animation.
Alongside the talks, students took part in hands-on workshops with tools such as Cavalry, Touch Designer and Photoshop, gaining insights into professional practices while experimenting with new techniques.
Portfolio reviews run by Pebble Studios offered direct feedback and networking opportunities, while student work created during the workshops was exhibited each evening.
Companies like ours need motion designers not just to make tutorials, but also to create demonstration content in the software.
Events like this help us see what emerging talent is capable of and how the next generation is thinking.
Young creatives often drive new trends in the industry because they’re the ones with the time, the curiosity, and the fresh perspective.”
Ian Waters , Chief Technology Officer, Scene Group
With DJ sets, drinks receptions and a lively atmosphere, Mo:De once again demonstrated Ravensbourne’s commitment to giving students access to real world insights and opportunities that equip them for success in their chosen industries.
Find out more about our Motion Graphics courses here .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-celebrates-june-2025:
Ravensbourne University London celebrated the graduation of its summer 2025 graduates, with a ceremony held on 30 June to honour their hard work and achievements.
The ceremony recognised graduates from a range of postgraduate programmes, each of whom now takes their next steps into dynamic, fast-moving industries equipped with specialist knowledge and real-world experience.
Our postgraduate students have not only chosen to deepen their knowledge and mastery in their fields, but have done so with passion, rigour and originality.
Their decision to pursue further study reflects an extraordinary commitment to personal and professional growth.”
T his year’s summer graduates included students from the Master of Business Administration (MBA) , MSc Computer Science , MSc Cyber Security , MSc Cyber Security Management , MSc Digital Marketing , MSc Project Management , MA Design Communication , MA Design Management , and MA Luxury Brand Management courses.
The teaching at Ravensbourne is brilliant.
The lecturers build great relationships with students — they know your name, ask how you’re doing, and care about your life and your career.
They don’t just teach — they also offer advice and guidance, including tips and even insights into living and working across the world.”
Damilare Abiola Ogunfeitimi , MBA Graduate, Ravensbourne University London
The ceremony took place at the Barbican Centre in the City of London, and was attended by family, friends, faculty, and industry leaders who came together to mark this important academic milestone.
In a proud first for Ravensbourne, this year’s graduation saw the ceremonial mace make its official debut, symbolising the university’s authority and heritage.
The mace was carried at the front of the academic procession by the Ravensbourne alumna who designed it — Product Design graduate Anna Eerdmans.
Included in the event was the presentation of an Honorary Doctorate to Karen Blackett CBE, CEO of Group M.
Her address to the graduates offered timely advice on resilience, creativity, and the power of representation across the creative, technology and business industries.
I always think it is such a joy to see everyone's hard work culminate today and watch everybody be so happy and celebrating — that's infectious to be part of.
It's also vital that people can see what they can achieve from very normal backgrounds, so being recognised for the work that you love and enjoy seems really important.”
Karen Blackett CBE , Ravensbourne Honorary Doctorate
As part of the ceremony, Ravensbourne was proud to confer professorships on five distinguished members of its academic community.
The new titles recognise their exceptional contributions to teaching, research, and university life.
The graduation ceremony reflected Ravensbourne’s ongoing mission to create bold new thinkers who skilfully blend the creative, technology and business expertise that modern employers demand.
Ravensbourne was delighted to celebrate the achievements of its graduating students and looks forward to seeing the impact they will make in their chosen fields.
Find out more about our courses and how we continue to support our students after graduation.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/third-episode-ravensbourne-university-london-podcast-tackles:
Episode three of Ravensbourne University London’s bi-monthly podcast, Ravensbourne on Record , focuses on the future skills needs in the technology industries and how the opportunities can be made accessible for all.
It is now available to watch via our Youtube channel .
Ravensbourne on Record aims to bring educators and creative, tech and business leaders together to examine how academia and industry can coalesce, collaborate and learn with one another.
Hosted by Deputy Vice Chancellor Professor Simon Robertshaw, the third episode features Jack Perschke, CEO of Great Wave AI, Austin Earl, Programme Manager for Education and Edtech at TechUK, and Dr Naureen Farhan, Interim Course Leader of BSc (Hons) Creative Computing at Ravensbourne.
The most in-demand tech skills are people skills; you can always find someone who can code their way out of a problem.
The more flexible we can be about how people can progress, the better that is for education and industry.”
Jack Perschke , CEO of Great Wave AI
This episode of Ravensbourne on Record demonstrates the University’s continuing commitment to facilitating open and honest discussions between education and industry.
Conversations like these are a core principle of Ravensbourne’s new 2030 strategy, as well as aligning with the Government’s latest industrial plan, and are therefore critical to innovation and growth within the creative, tech and business sectors.
All episodes of Ravensbourne on Record are available to watch on our website, YouTube and Spotify.
Join the conversation via our social media channels by including the hashtag #RavensbourneOnRecord.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-lecturer-involved-new-series:
A lecturer on Ravensbourne University London’s BA (Hons) Digital Film Production course, Sarah Mursal , was a Production Designer on the recently released second season of BBC comedy-drama The Power of Parker .
The show stars Conleth Hill ( Game of Thrones, Inside Number 9 ), Sian Gibson ( Peter Kay’s Car Share, Dial M for Middlesborough ) and Rosie Cavaliero ( Mid Morning Matters with Alan Partridge, Jam & Jerusalem ).
The show, created and written by Gibson, is set in Stockport in the 1990s.
It follows businessman Martin Parker (Hill) as he attempts to balance his business debts alongside keeping wife (Cavaliero) and mistress (Gibson) happy.
Alongside teaching responsibilities at Ravensbourne, Sarah’s technical design credentials have seen her work all over the world with esteemed production companies such as Black Dog, Studio 90 and Tiger Aspects.
Being a Production Designer on The Power of Parker was an immensely rewarding experience.
I’m particularly delighted that the show takes such a prominent position on the BBC iPlayer, meaning our work is being shared for all to see.
It’s energising to be able to not only work on projects such as these within my industry, but share my insights with our student body here at Ravensbourne through my teaching.”
Sarah Mursal , Lecturer in BA (Hons) Digital Film Production at Ravensbourne University London
The production expertise she brings from the art department to the classroom is invaluable in ensuring that Ravensbourne students benefit from up-to-the-minute, industry-standard insights from the first day of their degree.
You can watch both series of The Power of Parker now on the BBC iPlayer .
You can also find out more about Ravensbourne’s BA (Hons) Digital Film Production degree via the dedicated course page .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-launch-digital-technology-fashion-pathway:
More than 65,000 captive viewers streamed Ravensbourne University London’s inaugural fashion and gaming venture, Rave Digital , live on Twitch in July 2020.
Building on this landmark success as reported by Forbes, Twitch and Love Magazine, Ravensbourne University London is unveiling a first-of-its-kind Digital Technology for Fashion Pathway commencing September 2021.
Ravensbourne Senior Lecturer, Adam Andrascik, who fronted the Rave Digital initiative, believes this pathway will give prospective students the cutting-edge tools - from CLO 3D to Substance by Adobe - and knowledge to navigate and lead in this new emerging field.
As this industry is continually evolving, each student’s final major project will be self-negotiated and result in a unique and personal digital outcome, exploring the latest developments and ideas, from digital garment production, AR and VR application to NFTs.
The choice is theirs.
The pathway will be available to all BA Fashion students from the start of Year 2, whether they are enrolled at Ravensbourne or not.
If they have studied at Ravensbourne previously, they will have undergone a rigorous Year 1, with significant aspects of studies covering 2D design with a sampling of digital.
On the digital pathway in Year 2, students will learn digital technologies and tools that will enhance their Year 1 2D work.
The pathway gives students a comprehensive understanding of the relationship between 2D and 3D; how they can leverage these skills to create the collections and projects of the future.
In Year 3, students will take this knowledge and submit a final project proposal, deciding the level of digital integration.
Encouraged to collaborate both university and industry-wide, students will be able to take advantage of the industry relationships cultivated by Ravensbourne.
This will provide them with a better understanding of how digital design functions outside of the classroom and prepare them for future employment and leadership opportunities.
Last year’s six-week Rave Digital project served as a valuable case study: of the 10 students who took part, two have successfully pivoted into the digital fashion field, working for LA- based start-up and a digitally-focused streaming publication, while many others have taken their new found digital skill and integrated it into their personal practice.
The new digital pathway is part of Ravensbourne’s ‘Digital First’ transformation programme.
Alongside an expansion in new course offerings and new strategic partnerships, ‘Digital First’ aims to re-invigorate the learning experience delivered to students.
The transformation will allow the university to thrive in a more complex digital environment driven by human centred design and digital journeys.
Gurmit Matharu, the Course Leader for BA (Hons) Fashion commented, “The fashion course prides itself on being a mirror image of the fashion industry, students experience at first hand the realities of working within a challenging and evolving creative industry.
Equipped with future proof skills, the new digital pathway will ensure our students remain ahead of the field, giving them a competitive edge upon graduation and beyond.”
Lee Lapthorne, Programme Director Fashion, commented, “Our students take on a strong digital sensibility from the get-go at Ravensbourne and our Tech team are forward-thinking, able to adapt and constantly come up with new innovative ways of working.
Research suggests that both the luxury craft sector and digital fashion innovation will be the focus of the fashion industry and our students will graduate well equipped at the forefront.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-3d-animation:
creatives keen to harness their skills and connections to thrive in the world of character animation.
Can you push the boundaries of 3D animation?
On this BA honours 3D animation course, you will develop creative techniques through a range of digital mediums including film, television, games, and online platforms.
Utilising the skills of storytelling and forming narratives, you will develop your artistic communication skills and a strong rationale for your ideas.
With opportunities for mentorships with top industry players, allow our experts sharpen your natural talent and turn passion into profession.
Excellent location with a host of animation studios on the doorstep
Opportunities for mentorships with top industry players
Collaborate on live briefs within industry
Acquire the technical skills to apply your creative talent to a successful career in character animation
Work collaboratively with other students to tackle creative briefs and bring ideas to life.
The UK’s animation industry is a global success story.
In a world where visual communication is the norm, animators are in high demand whether in TV, film, gaming, corporate films, advertising or the media.
Through studying this exciting animation degree course, you will acquire the technical skills, insight and platform to apply your creative talent to a successful career in character animation.
You will think on your feet, respond to live and self-initiated briefs, and utilise a mix of practice and theory-based learning, including: seminars, workshops, industry masterclasses, individual tutorials and self-directed study.
You will explore a range of character animation techniques, including the fundamentals, body mechanics and performance.
You will also adopt digital development skills in asset and rigging creation, together with storytelling techniques, life drawing, physical prototyping, research and idea development, communication and presentation.
You will also examine the medium using industry-standard software, including Maya and the Adobe Suite.
Working in a creative environment, you will work collaboratively with other students to tackle creative briefs and bring ideas to life.
You will be welcomed into a supportive community comprising industry experts and graduate mentors in a dynamic, creative hub.
During this three-year animation course in London, you will acquire the technical skills and insight to succeed in a career in animation.
You will be granted access to industry-quality software and produce an assessed portfolio of work, so you’re ready to enter the professional world of animation with confidence and know-how.
The BA (Hons) Animation degree uses a blend of practice and theory-based learning.
You will be introduced to a range of animation practices.
These include: conceptualisation, digital development skills, asset creation, character animation techniques, scripting, storytelling techniques and life drawing.
It also includes physical prototyping, communication and presentation, research and idea development.
Observational and contextual subject related areas
First-year student Marcus Ayrton shares his thoughts on the course and his Ravensbourne experience.
Second-year student Keefe Wagstaff shares his thoughts on the course and his Ravensbourne experience.
Third-year student Armand St.
Croix shares his thoughts on the course and his Ravensbourne experience.
My main interests at school had been art, design and computing, so to discover a place which allowed me to explore all three was so exciting.
The course offered the chance to study animation, as well as hone my life drawing, storytelling and editing skills.”
Dan Edgley , BA (Hons) Animation graduate
New 3D Animation course specification (From Sept 2024 entry):
Course specification for current students:
There is a year zero option available for this course, which is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) Animation course.
This will be ideal for you if you wish to further develop your portfolio skills ahead of degree study.
If you apply via this current page, you will skip the year zero option.
If you are interested in this option, you can read more about the animation with year zero extension and apply via that page.
In this video, you will meet Year 0 course leader, Oliver O'Keeffe, who will give you an in depth overview of the Year 0 course.
In year 1, you will study fundamental animation skills, including timing, posing, movement and behaviour.
Throughout year 1, you will be encouraged to experiment and improvise with your ideas.
You will gain industry insight from the outset; attending guest lectures, completing tasks set by practitioners and receiving direct feedback on the work you submit.
A blend of skills will be explored throughout the course, including visual language, storytelling techniques and drawing.
In year 2, you will advance your skills in animation through acting workshops and exploration into dialogue and emotions.
This will be teamed with the development of skills in rigging and preparation for industry.
In your second year, you will be given the opportunity to work on live projects with mentors there to assist you.
You will also start to work independently, exploring your own individual area of interest and building an understanding of which sector your unique skill set is best placed within.
Industry guests will continue to support the modules in Year 2 through a series of masterclasses and workshops.
There will also be an opportunity to engage in either a live brief or secure a work-based learning opportunity within industry, at the end of Year 2.
In Year 3, you will focus on enhancing your chosen specialism in preparation for employment.
You will focus on how to brand yourself, prepare for life as a freelancer and develop a showreel which is relevant to the sector of your choice.
You will be encouraged to collaborate with fellow course mates and work alongside those in other courses such as Games Design, Illustration for Communication and Music and Sound Design.
Over the three years, you will be taught how to develop creative responses to all your modules, while integrating both theory and practical workflows to bring out a strong and individual creative vision.
You will also be taught the importance of building both personal and professional life skills, to adapt to the opportunities and the challenges of today’s world of work.
You will be continually assessed through the presentation of project and written work.
You will produce practical work and in the final year make or contribute to the making of a short animated piece.
Essays, blog entries, business plans, reports and a dissertation also form part of the requirements of the course.
Students should ideally have a background in art, creative media or design.
Applicants are expected to submit a portfolio of work which shows a range of their skills and demonstrates why they would be a good fit for the course.
Please see bespoke advice for international students in the dedicated section below.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Animation degree course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Please provide a digital portfolio of no more than 10 pieces of work.
A piece of work can be:
Animation is an increasingly widespread form of media and good animators are becoming more sought after in film, television, visual effects (VFX), gaming and the web.
Animation graduates often go on to secure work as 3D/2D generalists or specialists in areas such as: concept, modelling, animation and VFX production.
Past Ravensbourne University London animation graduates have been employed in roles within film and television, VFX, advertising, post-production, apps and games.
I've just watched all of these wonderful animations from the very talented Ravensbourne students for A British History In Weather and they are lovely - moving, subtle and beautifully done.
What a wonderful partnership”
Clare McGinn , Head of BBC Radio and Music Production
Our animation lab, a safe space for students to explore, experiment and learn.
BA (Hons) Animation students working in the lab.
Our students completed a workshop with professional actor Bruce MacKinnon, designed to help animators get the most realistic performances possible out of their characters.
Ravensbourne students enjoy a visit to Blue Zoo Animation studio where they heard some useful tips from the friendly staff and an insight into workflows and techniques.
Every year, our students showcase their work at the Degree Show.
It's fantastic opportunity to celebrate their journey and share work with both industry and their family and friends.
Co-founder and Director of Ritzy Animation, an animation studio based in London specialising in 3D animation for commericals, TV and web.
Junior Designer, Smoke and Mirrors, and BA (Hons) Animation graduate, 2016

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/andy-rees:
Andy Rees is Ravensbourne University London’s Dean.
As a member of the University’s Executive, Andy plays a central role in managing all academic provision and in the development and delivery of Ravensbourne’s distinctive, high-quality education provision.
Andy joined Ravensbourne in March 2022, with significant experience across Higher and Further Education sectors.
He previously worked at the University of East London where he led on a number of institutional projects including the creation and delivery of the Mental Wealth: Professional Fitness Framework; the development and implementation of an Academic Advisors Framework; the evolution and realisation of the Peer Enhancement process and policy; the enhancement of mental wellbeing in the curriculum and he co-authored the institutional Learning and Teaching Framework.
Whilst at UEL Andy drove the reinvention of pedagogic approaches in visual arts, architecture and computing disciplines both through the moves to hyflex learning and in the radical reworking of physical spaces to maximise interdisciplinary collaboration.
In his previous roles in HE in FE Andy led on the significant growth of Access and HE for a provider in South Essex, building the largest provision in the region as well as developing innovative partnerships with industry and other HEIs, including amongst the first higher apprenticeships in the UK with Petroplus and a unique partnership with the Royal Opera House to support progression into costume construction careers.
He also contributed to the development of three major capital builds across South Essex, shaping the learning environments to support engagement, retention, progression and widen access.
Educated at Nottingham and Westminster Universities, Andy initially followed a career in fashion and editorial photography where his work was widely published.
His engagement with Higher Education was driven by his desire to enhance the student experience by integrating employment practice into pedagogy and to widen participation and access.
Andy's research explores the two, sometimes connected subject areas of landscape in digital wilderness and the histories and futures of pedagogic spaces.
He has exhibited in venues across the UK and America and has a forthcoming touring show in 2023 titled 'the New Education 2'.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/dr-kellie-vincent:
Currently Head of the Department of Business at Ravensbourne University London, Dr Kellie Vincent has previously held roles at University of Bedfordshire where she was Head of Strategy and Management and then Associate Dean Teaching, Learning and Student Experience.
Kellie was MBA Director at University of Westminster where she redesigned the programme to become a boardroom based MBA and prior to that, MBA Director at Oxford Brookes University, where the programme was ranked 5th best globally for distance and online learning at that time.
Vincent began her career in the food industry, market research and consultancy before transitioning into academia initially as a FE and professional qualifications tutor, then as a Course Team Author at Open University Business School while completing her PhD investigating consumer-brand relationships.
While working within BPP Learning Media as Publishing Manager she authored over 50 study texts and managed the CIM, and MRS ranges along with launching distance learning programmes with professional bodies and universities.
Vincent’s teaching, academic partnership and consultancy work has taken her across the globe, including Africa, India, Oman, Jordan, Russia and Uzbekistan.
Her research interests delve into supporting students, boardroom behaviours, corporate psychopaths, and branding, exploring dynamics within organisational and consumer contexts.
Find Kellie Vincent on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-launch-pioneering-courses-skillsunion:
Ravensbourne University London is proud to announce the launch of Ravensbourne SkillsLab; a host of online courses designed to accelerate career development.
The courses are delivered by our validation partner, SkillsUnion , who are the experts in online, vocational courses.
Skills Union is a leading digital learning company focused on preparing students for careers in the digital economy.
Ravensbourne University London have partnered with SkillsUnion to offer part-time, remote courses that provide students of all ages the opportunity to up-skill and enrich their career.
The courses provide the perfect preparation for the incredible opportunities available in the digital landscape.
Courses take 25 hours per week with a professional qualification at completion.
This is subject to validation.
The global pandemic has made most people revaluate their career, and interrogate how secure they are in a transformed economy.
Ravensbourne SkillsLab offers learners from all walks of life an amazing opportunity to propel their career forward and future-proof potential opportunities.
By 2030, the Learning and Work Institute anticipate vacancies in 2.5 million highly skilled job roles.
High-growth technical industries such as software engineering and UX design are likely to have the highest number of jobs available.
There has never been a better time to invest in a career created with the future in mind.
Ravensbourne SkillsLab offers two courses, UX/UI Design and Software Development .
Both courses are delivered over 24 weeks, with lessons taking place in the evenings and weekends.
This means that full-time workers or those juggling caring responsibilities can still utilise the amazing on offer.
Colin Mansell, CEO of SkillsUnion, commented, “We couldn’t be more excited to work with Ravensbourne University to bring this unique offering of highly practical, industry-focused courses to the London tech community.
These programmes have been specially designed for anyone to kick start a career in tech, taking beginners and transforming them into industry-ready software developers and UX designers in 24-weeks.
The courses are delivered part time so students can continue to work while they learn.
We’re incredibly excited to work with Ravensbourne to support our students as they start their careers in tech, and have a range of scholarships and payment options to help students of all backgrounds to gain access to jobs in London’s fast growing tech sector.”
Ravensbourne’s Vice Chancellor, Andy Cook, said, "We’re thrilled to partner with SkillsUnion to provide these excellent courses.
We have always been committed to supporting our community and ensuring that the opportunity to learn is available to as many people as possible.
We hope that young people and those seeking an entirely new profession will take this chance to enrich their career.”
You can find out more about SkillsUnion on their website.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-committed-building-sustainable-future:
At Ravensbourne University London, we know how important sustainability is to our students, and we are putting it at the forefront of what we do.
Ravensbourne is working hard to ensure that we, as an institution, are committed to a greener future, from the way we run our building, to the projects our students work on.
We have embedded sustainable practices across our curriculum.
Students work on live-project briefs with real clients, including our annual denim innovation project in Fashion and repurposing scrap materials in Product Design.
Half (49%) of our students – out of 87 polled – told us that integrating sustainability into their university projects was ‘very important’ to them, and an additional 30% said it was something they considered when designing projects.
The answers came as part of a series we did to assess our students' thoughts on sustainability, because we value their voices.
In 2022, we set a target date of 2030 to switch to a 100% renewable energy tariff – we ended up achieving this by the end of 2023.
The introduction of this renewable tariff will reduce our carbon dioxide emissions by 428 tonnes, the equivalent to emissions produced by 90 UK households a year.
We believe that every step can add up to a big change.
And we’re not alone in this – we asked our students whether they thought individuals could have the same impact as big companies when it comes to sustainability.
One in five (20%) out of 100 students asked said they strongly agreed, and a further 33% agreed.
Find out more about the work we have done and continue to do on our sustainability page .
We will continue to strive forward and make positive changes towards a brighter future.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-attends-prestigious-riba:
Ravensbourne University London was proud to attend the prestigious RIBA London Student Awards, where eight of its graduating architecture students were honoured for their final major projects.
The ceremony, held on 23 October, celebrated the innovative work of architecture students from across London and its surrounding areas.
This year’s awards showcased the talent emerging from Ravensbourne’s architecture department, with students receiving recognition across various categories.
These awards go beyond recognising excellence in traditional architectural skills — they honour the creativity, determination, and forward-thinking spirit that define the next generation of architects.
We are incredibly proud to see Ravensbourne graduates so prominently represented at this prestigious event.”
Alberto Villanueva , Head of Architecture at Ravensbourne University
The RIBA London Student Awards are a key event for emerging architects, providing a platform for students to showcase their skills and connect with influential leaders in the architecture industry.
This year's awards highlighted a broad range of innovative student projects, many of which addressed contemporary challenges such as sustainability, climate resilience, and technological advancements in the built environment.
The award-winning students were Layla Sreeraman, Laurence Chapman, Robbie Michael, Shana Remezan, Ian Tsang, Lola Moro, Wei Jiang, and Jing Sum Fan.
Jing Sum Fan received the Diversity and Inclusion award, sponsored by Vandersanden, one of Europe’s largest producers of bricks.
Wei Jiang was awarded the RIBA South East London prize for his project, which was presented to over 350 industry professionals and peers at the ceremony.
Ravensbourne University London is thrilled to see its students recognised for their creativity and hard work.
Being awarded is a recognition of all the efforts and achievements we put in during the final major project.
I hope to stand on the RIBA award stage once again after becoming an architect!”
Wei Jiang , BA Architecture student
The ceremony was attended by students, faculty staff, and professionals from the architecture sector, all coming together to celebrate the talent and creativity shaping the future of the built environment.
Find out more about our Architecture department .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/ma-grad-show:
The Ravensbourne MA Illustration & Design Communication students invite you to join us at our graduate show in the heart of London's Design District.
The show represents work of extended research projects: each started with an individual interest or passion and developed with consideration of existing research, design methodologies, target audiences, and ethics.
Through innovation in the form and content of our work, we hope to start and continue conversations.
As creatives, we focus on storytelling, communicating concepts and issues, in the pursuit of making work which is important to us and hopefully others.
The show invites you to immerse yourself in a diverse range of topics such as cultural representation in the media, children’s fairy tales, and the queer club experience.
Our practice responds to the fast-paced, ever-evolving creative landscape.
Join us as we embark on our respective futures, launching not only our work but also ourselves into the world.
Grand exhibition: Immerse yourself in an awe-inspiring display of cuttingedge designs, from ingenious concepts to contemporary design solutions that challenge the boundaries of creativity.
Networking opportunities: Connect with like-minded individuals and potential collaborators from diverse design fields.
Share your ideas, discuss trends, and build lasting relationships in a convivial atmosphere.
Culinary delights: Savour delectable treats and drinks.
Private view Thursday 17 August: 17:00 - 22:00
Opening hours Friday 18 August to Sunday 20 August: 11:00 - 18:00
PDF – 0.97MB

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-buying-and-brand-management:
individuals with creativity, an eye for trends and business insight, interested in a challenging career in the fashion industry in buying, merchandising, trend forecasting or marketing.
Study for a degree in fashion buying and brand management and learn to forecast fashion trends, interpret consumer behaviour, appreciate the importance of sustainability and build an understanding of the current global fashion market.
Here's an overview of the work Ravensbourne students have produced in their final year on the Fashion Buying and Brand Management degree.
Work by Darcy Harding Entitled: Ewe and Me
Work by Mae Ward Entitled: Lohan trend
Work by Mae Ward Entitled: Lohan trend
Work by Mae Ward Entitled: Lohan range, Astrid and Miya accessories
Work by Kathy Turner Entitled: Neco
Work by Mary Beccaro Entitled: Olim Bay
Work by Mary Beccaro Entitled: Olim Bay
Work by Mary Beccaro Entitled: Olim Bay
This three-year degree in the cultural capital of London can help you realise your dream career in fashion buying and brand management.
We encourage your creative flair while also developing your business skills, including problem-solving, organisational, planning, presentation, promotional and management skills.
The course is forward-thinking and has been designed to provide students with the mindset and skillset needed to succeed in a competitive industry.
There are no sketchbooks or sewing required on this Fashion Buying and Brand Management course, here at Ravensbourne our assessment focusses on industry-style reporting so you're well prepared for your future career.
You will gain practical knowledge about the product development process, including fabric selection and testing, colour management, quality management and sustainability.
CAD lessons will facilitate creative presentation while other CAD/CAM management tools will also help to prepare students for industry.
You will be encouraged to use your creativity while  also develop your business skills.
This means you will build a real understanding of the different roles and networks available to you.
At Ravensbourne University London, we’re all about making you truly industry-ready.
You will have the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through an Accredited Degree partnership with The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our degrees, equipping you with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
I was privileged to have worked with the students of the BA (Hons) Fashion Buying & Brand Management course.
I was continually impressed by their professionalism and preparedness for a career in fashion.
They also demonstrate an incredible awareness of the current shape of fashion retail and an insight into the future factors facing the industry.”
Melanie Mitchell , Founder of Someday Talent
Your creative learning will be enhanced through a diverse range of guest speakers and industry-led projects, while external visits will provide behind-the-scenes insights into the likes of manufacturers, trade fairs, fabric suppliers and retail spaces.
Using the Adobe suite and online fashion resources, you will develop the creative and practical skills to enable you to plan a fashion range and/or a new store layout, promote a brand, generate a professional report, pitch an idea, and ultimately understand the global fashion market.
Students will build fundamental skills in fashion forecasting, buying from concept to consumer, brand buying, management and promotion.
They will be taught digital communication skills to communicate brand identity and will be encouraged to think about their personal brand signature.
We encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research throughout this year.
Students will gain a greater understanding of managing their personal brand and will work in creative collaboration with industry partners and students from other disciplines.
Merchandising and visual merchandising are taught in the context of real industry practice.
Every student will be given the opportunity to undertake a work-based learning opportunity and participate in manufacturing visits to echo the fashion buyer’s role.
We ask students to show their contextual studies research in a written or visual dissertation.
They will further build on their skills in consumer research and trend prediction to make the case for a gap in the market to launch a new brand.
They will also write a market research report, create a brand proposal, range plan, tech packs and produce a range of creative outcomes.
For this course, we would usually require a GCSE Grade 4 or above in English and Maths in addition to any of the below;
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England, language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international section .
Graduates will be able to pursue work in a number of fields including but not limited to:
Fashion buyer, merchandiser, marketing, brand manager, trend forecasting, digital communications, data analyst/insights, sustainability and sourcing, visual merchandiser, account strategist, online visual merchandiser, product developer, fabric buyer, consumer experience manager, e-commerce manager, marketing manager, entrepreneur/business owner, managing director/CEO.
Our graduates work for companies such as Net A Porter, Harvey Nichols, ASOS, Sweaty Betty, Schuh, Next, Urban Outfitters.
Ravensbourne has strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
It was great to see such enthusiasm and drive from the students, get an insight of what they think of Boden and what our future looks like from their perspective.
A thoroughly enjoyable and thought-provoking morning.”
Silva Hrabar , Head of Merchandising, Boden
Sustainability Coordinator, Lucy and Yak
Putting her creative talents to the test, working as Creative Copywriter and Graphic Designer at creative agency Sophie Co, based in Sydney, Australia
Accessories Buying Administrator at Liberty, London
Visual Merchandiser for Selfridges on the accessories department
Freelance Creative Director at the fashion label, John Zack

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-promotion-and-communication:
individuals looking to build, promote and maintain dynamic brands, while also developing their practice and knowledge of fashion media production.
On this fashion promotion and communication degree in London, UK, you will learn to build, promote and maintain dynamic fashion brands.
With strong industry links and cutting-edge facilities, you will tell unique fashion brand stories through different mediums to a range of audiences.
It’s all about standing out from the crowd.
Our 2021 course showreel.
The BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion and Communication degree can be tailored to your interests.
You will explore fashion media production, fashion marketing and visual communication, including digital imaging and new media.
You will learn the skills and techniques needed to effectively communicate and market fashion brands in this dynamic, fast-moving and exciting sector.
Our Fashion Promotion and Communication course includes a work-based learning opportunity where you can showcase your learning in a professional environment.
Supported by the Ravensbourne Employability Team, recent work-based learning opportunities have include industry giants Urban Outfitters, Jimmy Choo, Stella McCartney, Vogue, Wonderland Magazine, Ralph Lauren, Ralph & Russo, Paul Smith, LK Bennett, Karen Millen, Harvey Nichols, Fashion Scout, Exposure, PR, All Saints and Black Diamond Films.
Delivered through a combination of practice and theory-based learning, you will develop your own unique voice across a number of channels, including: film, magazines, fashion photography, website design, journalism, brand communication and social media.
Competitions and live briefs will provide real work scenarios to help you develop and integrate your skillset, whilst building key industry contacts.
At Ravensbourne, I watched myself grow mentally and professionally from year to year.
Particularly in the third year, where I felt myself blossom as I was able to create my own self-directed project.
What I appreciated most was the never-ending support from the passionate tutors.”
Rosa Kimbembi , Social Media Editor, Dazed Magazine
The flexible design of this fashion marketing course will enable you to tailor your studies to your individual fashion media passions.
You will explore creative areas including:
Students will build knowledge and awareness of brand principles and the basics of how to bring together a fashion campaign.
Alongside this, they will learn key skills in photography, film, graphics, illustration and social media.
We encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research throughout this year.
Modules may include*:
*Subject to change.
Students will gain a greater understanding of multi-platform campaign building.
At the same time, they will develop skills in building websites and writing market reports.
Our students go live at this stage, taking on a work-based learning opportunity.
Students will be assessed on four components in their final year and we ask that they create a final major project from inception to realisation.
They will also work on a range of national and international competitions to showcase their skills and build a well-rounded professional portfolio.
We ask that they show their contextual studies research in a long form dissertation.
We still think exams are important and look forward to hearing about your successes, but we place just as much importance on the work you will share with us as part of our portfolio review process.
Admission onto this course is also subject to a successful portfolio review.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion and Communication degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Please provide the following for your portfolio review:
All the above has to be no more than 15 pages.
This page offers great tips for completing your portfolio .
Students will complete the course with a strong, industry-ready portfolio of visual work relevant to their career preferences.
Public relations, online marketing, advertising and digital marketing, brand manager, art direction, styling, fashion photography, fashion events director, digital marketing, creative technologist, commercial film production, graphic illustrator, media designer, visual merchandiser, fashion writer, campaign manager, academics and teachers, archivist, brand managers, curator, copywriter, digital operations, data analyst/insights, display designer (window dressing etc), e-comms developer, graphic designers (placement print and/or point of sale), influencer/talent management, journalist, logistics, marketing manager, managing director/CEO.
Fashion Promotion includes a fully accredited work placement where students can apply their learnings to a professional environment.
Recent work placements include Urban Outfitters, Wonderland Magazine, Ralph Lauren, Ralph & Russo, Paul Smith, LK Bennett, Karen Millen, Harvey Nichols, Fashion Scout, Exposure PR, All Saints and Black Diamond Films.
For the first time ever, Ravensbourne University fashion and gaming students collaborate to chart a course for the future of fashion
Promotes contemporary interiors brand, MARK
Works in the visual merchandising team at Jimmy Choo headquarters in London
Influencer Marketing Executive at ecommerce brand, Lounge Underwear
Styling London’s rich and famous at Harvey Nichols
Assistant Buyer at John Lewis & Partners
iMac suite at Ravensbourne University - ideal for design students and computing students.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fashion:
Do you dream of exhibiting at London Fashion Week?
Are you ready to work on live briefs with industry experts?
If you are ready to make your unique mark on the world of fashion, then one of our fashion courses could be for you.
The UK fashion industry is one of the most innovative in the world.
It’s recognised for its global appeal and contributed over £21 billion to the economy and supported nearly 900,000 jobs in the UK.* Learn from the highest calibre of teachers and utilise state-of-the-art technology to bring your ideas to life.
* Source: Value of the UK Fashion Industry’ Report, commissioned by the British Fashion Council
Beth Crowley Fashion BA (Hons) Buying and Brand Management
Bella Zhang London Fashion Week 2023 Photographer: John Steven Martinez BA (Hons) Fashion
Annie Severs London Fashion Week 2023 Photographer: John Steven Martinez BA (Hons) Fashion
Hai Li Sung London Fashion Week 2023 Photographer: John Steven Martinez BA (Hons) Fashion
Malaika Munshi Rangila BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion
Tamara Flaque Moreno Double T SS23 collection BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion
Mae Ward Lohan Trend 5 BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management
Advancements in digital technologies are shaping the future of the fashion world.
Our courses are continually updated to reflect changing trends and equip the next generation of designers with the latest digital tools for their future careers in the fashion industry.
Check out our dedicated Digital Technology for Fashion Pathway, designed to equip the next generation of designers with the latest digital tools.
Sustainability is embedded deep within our curricula too, empowering the next generation of thinkers to create consciously and learn to build environmental practices into their own creations.
There is so much cross over between each of the different disciplines in fashion, it’s almost like working in a sort of arena for art and design which is wonderful.”
Clare Waight Keller , Graduate and leading British fashion designer

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-motion-graphics:
budding designers who wish to create work that brings together graphic design, animation and video production.
Motion graphics is at the forefront of visual communication.
With the growth of digital culture, motion graphics has become one of the fastest expanding areas of design.
A BA (Hons) in Motion Graphics will open up opportunities for all budding designers with an interest in graphics, animation and film.
Learn to combine these disciplines and realise your personal creative potential.
Visit Behance for this class' graduate work.
The Motion Graphics degree course at Ravensbourne University London combines digital technology with animation and design principles to equip you with the full range of practical and theoretical skills required to build a successful career within this in-demand discipline.
The three-year undergraduate course encompasses key skills including animation, storytelling, graphic design, 2D and 3D software, video production and experiential design, as well as exploring the history, context and future potential of motion graphics.
Combining these skills with industry-standard software including After Effects and Cinema 4D, you’ll create motion graphics for film, television, online, mobile, music and live events.
Through the course’s well-established industry connections, you’ll be introduced to a wide range of guest speakers and visit design studios, post production houses and major broadcasters.
In your final year you will be given individual advice by industry experts on how to develop your portfolio and prepare for the job market.
You will graduate agile and industry ready – as proven by our excellent employment record.
Studying at Ravensbourne helped me figure out exactly what I wanted to do.
The constant stream of industry talks and guest speakers really inspired me and highlighted the different paths my degree could take me.”
Alice Parker , BA (Hons) Motion Graphics graduate
Download course specification
Students will start with design and animation principles specific to Motion Graphics and develop key skills that will underpin their work across the rest of the course.
These include conceptual thinking, storytelling, animation, visualisation, visual communication, typography and video production.
This is underpinned by introductions to the key software used on the course, Photoshop, Illustrator, After Effects, Premier Pro and Cinema 4D.
All of this software is available free for students on the course.
Students develop analytical thinking through their contextual studies, and examine the history and context of the motion graphics industry.
The skills attained in the first year are brought together in the second year through longer projects that reflect the areas that motion graphic designers might typically work in.
Students also get the opportunity to collaborate with students from other courses through the elective units.
They will also have opportunities to engage with industry professionals, work on live briefs and take up work-based learning opportunities.
The final year is focused on creating a personal portfolio of work that reflects individual student's skills and aspirations as a motion graphics designer.
All projects apart from one are self-initiated by the students and the briefs are developed in conjunction with tutors.
Students are required to enter one competition, of their own choice from a list provided by tutors.
Across the term, students have on-going mentoring and technical advice, and occasional workshops.
In term 3 students are given the opportunity to engage in portfolio reviews with industry professionals.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Motion Graphics degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
At your interview we expect to see a wide-ranging portfolio of design work.
This might typically include:
We don't require you to necessarily have any motion graphics or moving image work in your portfolio, although this is desirable, we do expect you to demonstrate an interest in and knowledge of the subject.
You should also include development work, sketch books and project logs.
Your portfolio should include work covered at GCSE, A Levels and / or Art & Design Foundation or BTEC, plus any work you consider relevant that you have produced independently.
Students will graduate with strong concept skills and technical expertise and be ready for a broad range of careers in the creative industry.
Students are often employed directly in motion graphics studios, but also work in advertising, branding, broadcast, film, title design, experiential design, exhibitions and events.
At Ravensbourne University London, industry connection is embedded into everything we do.
Our course will equip you for success in the creative and digital industries, ensuring you are truly industry ready upon graduation.
Ravensbourne has strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
The Motion Graphics course has links with many design studio powerhouses including XK Studio, Future Deluxe, Alchemy Studio, Weareseveteen, Territory Studio, Potion Pictures, The Mill, Studio Hansa, Design Bridge, Animade, Inertia, Unit, and many more.
We also have major links with global broadcasters like SkyTV, Discovery Channel, BT TV, BBC/Red Bee, and many companies that employ motion graphic designers ranging from Burberry to Manchester United FC.
Senior motion designer at Born Social, a global social media agency based in London.
Junior Motion Designer at media agency, RAPP
Animator at design studio, Animade
Motion Graphics Designer and Illustrator at London-based creative agency, RATCHET
Winner of the Best Design Newcomer PromaxBDA UK Awards 2018.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/ravensbourne-students-present-digital-fashion-week-ny:
We are thrilled to announce that two of our BA (Hons) Fashion students have been selected to take part in Digital Fashion Week New York .
Ivan Svanberg and Rozanne Da Costa were both chosen for their striking, innovative designs and will present a video celebrating their digital work.
We sat down with Ivan to find out about his experience.
How does it feel to be part of Digital Fashion Week New York 2021?
It feels really cool to be part of this year’s Digital Fashion Week NY.
Digital design is something that we on the fashion course started being taught just last year, and it was kind of optional how much time we individually wanted to invest into using digital design.
But seeing as the pandemic had shaken things up so much already, I was really open to trying out something new, and I've always acknowledged and appreciated the place that digital fashion has in videogames, where you can dress up your character.
I found that making samples digitally, before I start making them physically in the real world, helped me identify faults and rights in my pattern cutting very early on, and so I kept using the program a lot just to improve my process.
Before I knew it, I had made quite a lot of digitally rendered garments and when the opportunity came up with Digital Fashion Week New York, I did not hesitate and thought immediately that I had something to share with the world.
The metaverse and online world is continuously growing and videogame fashion is becoming more and more acknowledged so I think that, whether doing digital fashion or working with Clo3D is something you are into or not, there is a huge and welcoming home for this type of work out there.
How has your course helped your career so far?
Something that the Fashion course at Ravensbourne does really well, is equipping the students with so many tools that will be useful to you further down the line, depending on what you want to focus on in your career.
But man, it’s amazing how many different useful tools and skills they teach us.
At Ravensbourne, I can confidently say that I have been equipped with all of the necessary skills and tools that I need to realize my job as a fashion designer and all that entails.
And this is coming from someone with the background of studying science at gymnasium in Sweden and having absolutely no experience or education in Fashion or design before coming to Ravensbourne.
What advice would you give to students who would like to study Fashion at Ravensbourne?
Be open to criticism and have an open mind at all times.
Let this be an opportunity for self-exploration, it is as if you are studying yourself and your own creative desire and the course is simply there to help you research and harness that and then put it into something productive and beautiful.
The course is intense but rightfully so, and the tutors are extremely helpful and supportive and the more time and energy you put into the course, the more the course and the tutors are able to give back to you.
Digital Fashion Week New York takes place from Wednesday 28 April, with student fashion shows taking place on Thursday 29 April 2021.
You can find out more on the official website .
Check out Ivan’s work on his Instagram account: @iv.em.sv You can check out Rozanne’s work on her Instagram account: @r.dacostaa You can also view the student work on the official Digital Fashion Week NY Instagram account
Ravensbourne have launched a brand new Digital Technology for Fashion Pathway (Year 2 entry).
The course begins in September 2021.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/students-original-song-featured-bbc-radio:
Our first-year BA (Hons) Music and Sound Design student, the singer-songwriter Seb Turner-Moore, has recently made huge strides into the music industry.
His latest single, ‘Another Love’, was featured as a BBC Track of the Day on BBC Radio Sussex and BBC Radio Surrey.
Another of his tracks was then featured on BBC Five Live as part of their ‘That’s What I Call Lockdown’ strand, which compiled songs written during or about lockdown.
Seb’s music is available on most major streaming platforms, including Spotify and Apple Music .
You can also follow his latest updates on Instagram .
Here he chats to us about his recent success.
Congratulations on having ‘Another Love’ featured on BBC Introducing Track of the Day!
How did it feel to hear your own song on the radio?
It was a great feeling.
I remember the day when I got the email through that it had been picked and it was going to be played on the radio, and I ran downstairs to tell my mum and couldn’t really believe it.
I worked so hard on that track, it was an awesome feeling to hear it on BBC Radio.
What was your inspiration for the song?
What did you want to convey?
‘Another Love’ is a love song but not a love song.
It's a positive message for people who are trying to move on from past relationships, who think they won't find somebody special again.
It gives hope that everyone can find Another Love and that your next relationship really can be the one that lasts another day and another year.
I wanted to create a love song that was an uplifting pop banger; I didn't want it to bring people down, but lift their spirits instead.
How has the Music and Sound Design course helped your music career?
The Music and Sound Design course at Ravensbourne has really helped me with understanding and exploring different music production techniques.
It’s given me the confidence to explore different ideas in my music and has improved the overall quality of my music too.
Although online learning isn’t perfect, I feel part of a big creative community at Ravensbourne.
What advice would you give to anyone considering the Sound Design course?
One bit of advice I have is to explore all the possibilities in sound and music, because there are no limits to making and producing music.
Whether your passion is song writing or making music for films, just embrace and try everything.
Who are your biggest musical influences?
I’d say my biggest influences in music would be Tom Grennan, JC Stewart and Coldplay.
What can we expect from you next?
Do you have any plans to perform post-lockdown?
Yes, I do.
I’m hoping to start performing locally once Covid restrictions are eased and then after that I’m hoping to look forward to some London-based gigs.
I have another big single release coming out end of April, so be sure to tune in and I’m hoping for many more radio plays in the future!

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/online-ravensbourne-annual-student-showcase:
We’re delighted to announce the launch of our 2025 Annual Student Showcase.
The online showcase will celebrate the exceptional work of our Further Education and Undergraduate students from across the whole university.
An online display of student work from Ravensbourne University London.
This online showcase extends the reach of our students' work beyond the physical show to prospective employers, industry experts and peers.
Available online from 5 June 2025 onwards.
2024 – The Online Showcase 2023 - The Degree Show online 2021 - The Degree Show online 2020 - The Degree Show online
If you are a prospective student and you would like to visit the Annual Student Showcase at Ravensbourne University London, please register for the 7 June 2025 Open Day x Annual Student Showcase .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/short-courses/berghs-x-ravensbourne-university-london:
Our partnership with Berghs School of Communication in Sweden provides access to cutting-edge online courses to further your creative education or career.
Located in the heart of Stockholm, Berghs is a world leading communications school.
Young professionals can now study one of six short online courses.
These courses focus on a broad a range of industry-relevant subjects, from content marketing to brand strategy and from art direction to UX writing.
Explore our available courses below.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/advertising-and-brand-design-students-launch-homemade-experience:
Graduating Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Advertising & Brand Design students have launched ‘HOMEMADE’, an online platform that celebrates their hard work.
They are also displaying their exceptional designs on a billboard in east London from Sunday 18 July – Sunday 1 August 2021.
Government-mandated restrictions have impacted their final academic year in addition to changes to the usual end-of-year degree show.
But far from letting this hold them back, our students have drawn on their entrepreneurial spirit to launch an innovative digital platform, showcasing their hard work.
Although the work they have produced this year has been, by necessity, homemade, this does not mean the students’ creativity has been limited by the four walls that surrounded them.
To celebrate ‘HOMEMADE’ our students have collaborated with Build Hollywood to launch an augmented billboard in London on Hassard Street, Hackney Road, E2 7RD.
Passers-by will be able to connect to a specially designed augmented reality experience via their smartphones.
The billboard will display our students’ work for two weeks from Sunday 18 July 2021.
The audience can also connect to this platform via beautifully printed QR invitations, which will be sent out to exclusive industry contacts.
“We are HOMEMADE,” the students write on the platform’s host site.
“A medley of makers, creators, designers, and writers.
Learning and living, we adapted and worked through every challenge within the four walls we call home; solving each and every problem in our own unique way.”
Student Ester Wikström designed the homemade website and explained, “ The brand and website we have developed over the last couple of months sets out to prove that while the class of 21 is homemade, our work is anything but.
It's been absolutely fantastic for the rest of the team and myself to see the positive reactions to our website and I'm thrilled to be able to see our brand come to life physically through our billboard & AR activation – it will be wicked!
A huge thanks to Art Director and ABd tutor Steve Stacey and Creative Director and ABd tutor Roberto D'Andria who helped me design the billboard and Build Hollywood who have enabled this opportunity.”
Daily engagement with online and blended learning has created richer and more dynamic relationships between our students and the broader community within their discipline.
Whilst the class of 2021 have experienced a unique academic year, they are resilient and perfectly positioned to take advantage of new opportunities that are beginning to emerge.
Their final year at Ravensbourne has enabled them to engage beyond their course and connect directly with our extensive professional network.
They have worked with the immersive entertainment venue, the Outernet, and been mentored by the founder of AKQA, James Hilton.
Students have also been advised by the likes of BBC Creative, Moving Brands, Off White, ITV Creative, Studio Moross, Studio Blup, Squint Opera, Conran Design, Bulletproof and Faber Books.
You can find out more about our BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design students on their Instagram profile @dad_rave
You can view posts on their end of year showcase via the hashtag #homemadegrads

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/ba-illustration-communication-students-foster-sense-community:
Second-year BA Illustration for Communication students, Ella Chick and Laura Brannigan, have worked hard during the pandemic to retain a sense of community among their classmates by curating work on their course's Instagram page.
This has served as a space for collaboration and oneness, despite the student's physical separateness.
Here they chat about what they have learnt during the pandemic, how their career goals have changed, and how their creative work has served as a positive outlet during this period of uncertainty and isolation.
Before Covid, I was apprehensive about life after graduation.
The idea of being thrown into the world and not knowing what you want to do was scary.
But being stuck inside most of the year, I feel more determined than ever.
I am excited to experience new things and adapt to whatever comes my way.”
Laura Branningan , Second-year BA Illustration for Communication student
Initially, it felt uncomfortable because I am extremely tactile with the way I work.
I benefited from working at uni with the resources, so I had to completely adapt to my new environment.
This wasn’t an easy adjustment.
The time did allow me to concentrate on projects I wanted to get involved in though.
I got involved with numerous collaborations, more skills courses were also around to try outside of uni.
For example, I took part in a life drawing session with Ferly via Zoom.
I also challenged myself to be more consistent with my Instagram account and to plan creatively, as this seemed like the only thing that still had momentum whilst the world was very static.
To be able to solely focus on myself and for the first time ask the questions: what do I want?
Where do I want to go?
What small things could I do now that will benefit me later on?
Isolation gave me time to reflect.
Illustration work by Ella Chick
I was struggling to see myself as just an illustrator and wanted to push myself in different directions, which I don’t think I would have done in the way I had, had we not been in a pandemic.
I continually asked myself the question: what can I create?
I challenged myself to find alternative ways to illustrate.
I think when we are creative, we give ourselves permission to express all that is happening within our emotional state.
I’m starting to realise that's what drives my work the majority of the time.
Also, I think the very things that make us feel alone and isolated in these times, are the very things that connect us too.
So, when people were posting their art or talking about their experiences, especially in humour, I found a lot of the feelings relatable.
But connections on a whole have completely changed.
If we were in for the whole of our first year, we would have had the opportunity in class to express different parts of our personality to different people.
Zoom practically makes that non-existent, so it has been harder to get to know people.
You can find Ella Chick on Instagram at @ella.chick
Laura: Covid-19 presented an array of new challenges surrounding the dynamics of how we create and maintain a sense of community.
With everything moving online and little to no physical contact, we had to adapt the way we communicate.
In class, having smaller group discussions kept a sense of community, being able to engage in conversation as you would normally in the studio.
With the talk of Covid plastered over every social platform, it was nice to be able to escape it through natural and distracting conversations.
We had to keep evolving in the way we work.
Being able to collaborate online helped maintain a community spirit.
Staying connected while at home was important for us throughout the pandemic, be that with our course group chat or our own individual conversations.
Using different social media platforms helped, such as our course’s Instagram page.
I felt it was a place we could use to promote and support each other’s creativity during lockdown.
Illustration work by Laura Brannigan
While I had initial career plans, I would say some of these have changed.
Covid has made me more conscious of my attitude to the industry and its need for change.
When the whole world had to adapt to this alternative way of living, I realised I would have to adapt alongside it.
Without lockdown, I don’t know if I would have come to this conclusion.
Having the opportunity to hear from more industry professionals, it gave me a better insight and made me reflect on where I felt my role would be in this ever-changing environment.
I feel I am more open to opportunities rather than focusing on one outcome.
Before Covid, I would have said I was apprehensive about life after graduation.
I am excited to experience new things and adapt to whatever comes my way.
You can find Laura Brannigan on Instagram at @laura.b.illustration.
Ella and Laura's illustrated profile images were created by fellow second-year student Sarah Harris @dust_to_dustbunny

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-digital-photography:
budding digital photographers who wish to bring messages to life through powerful imagery.
Nothing tells a story like a powerful image.
Digital photography is one of the most dynamic mediums within the creative industries.
It is a dominant force in shaping and defining contemporary society.
Choose between three strands; sport, fashion and editorial/advertising, and graduate with everything you need to succeed in the international creative industries.
The Seven Deadly Sins photo series portrays each sin as a unique character with references to the colour, animal and demon of the sin.
This work by student Christian James Wood is entitled 'Gula'.
Digital photography is one of the most dynamic mediums within the creative industries; it is a dominant force in shaping and defining contemporary society.
This digital photography course in London, UK, is the destination for budding contemporary photographers who wish to push the boundaries of a powerful medium.
Recognised by leading industry bodies such as the Association of Photographers (AOP) and the Royal Photographic Society (RPS), you will learn to decipher creative briefs, develop your own photographic style and prepare collections for exhibitions and competitions.
This industry-focused photography degree provides an education in the broader areas of digital photographic practice and will instil an understanding of the rapidly changing principles and methods that underpin new and emerging creative commercial practice.
You will use practical skills, knowledge and critical application of digital photography, helping you to explore the creative potential of your camera.
Through a mix of practice and theory-based learning, you will be taught to think like a photographer and explore how images are created, shared, distributed and sold.
This future-focused photography degree course from Ravensbourne University London is designed to combine practical skills with a knowledge of the critical application of digital photography.
You will explore the creative potential of the camera and the theories and movements that drive change.
You will be encouraged to develop your own distinctive portfolio to showcase a high level of technical skill, whilst understanding the theory of photography, as well as seek opportunities for placements at top London agencies and photographers.
You will also be encouraged to work collaboratively with other students across the college and different disciplines.
When I arrived for my interview at Ravensbourne, I fell in love with it instantly.
The digital photography course was exactly what I wanted, a course that is completely industry led and gave me access to incredible kit.
Jessica Kelly , BA (Hons) Digital Photography alumna
This degree in photography provides an education in the broader areas of digital photographic practice.
You will develop a diverse skillset skills across:
Students will build fundamental skills in photographic equipment.
They will learn about still and also motion and post-production software alongside a working proficiency and knowledge of the industry.
Students will begin to think about their own practice and build confidence in image generation and platform selection.
Students will gain a greater understanding of equipment and software such as Leica M, Phase One and Hassleblad and Linhof medium format cameras.
They will think about the specialist areas of photography and where they are applied.
This will allow them to enhance their practice and develop their own approach to the digital creative work.
We set a variety of live project briefs, and encourage students to take up work-based learning.
Students will bring their learning together in a final major digital photography project, ready for exhibition at the degree show.
By this stage many students will already be published and working on projects in the creative industries.
Alongside this, they will create a self-initiated, experimental brief that addresses their own personal creative direction, and will form part of your principal working portfolio.
We ask students to show your contextual studies research and thinking in a long form dissertation.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Digital Photography degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Please show a selection of your best images showing your range and experiences.
Aim for between 19 to 21 images to show a varied and coherent selection.
Make this an electronic PDF document – make sure to add your name and contact details and any text that might be relevant to introduce your images.
You can also add links to your website or Instagram page if you would like us to see a broader range of your work outside of this main selection.
It also details our specific requirements.
Our graduates will be industry-ready to work across a range of disciplines and approaches within photography and the wider creative industries, including in areas such as:
Freelance photographer with over 85k followers on Instagram.
Worked with the likes of Adidas, Huawei, Puma, Timberland, Nokia and BMW and has recently released his first book.
Captures product still life for massive brands such as Budweiser, Becks and Corona.
Photographer at Nike's flagship Oxford Street store.
Working on numerous exciting freelance projects
FAD Magazine covers photography exhibition by Ravensbourne alumni, Brynley Odu Davies.
Read the full story now
The hotel is partnering with art consultant Anne Trouillet Rogers of CULTURE A and the Department of Photography at Ravensbourne University London, for a photographer-in-residence initiative for university students and alumni.
"The hotel has also partnered with Ravensbourne University London’s department of photography, offering alumni and students opportunities to exhibit their work...

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-digital-film-production:
Currently reading: Showcase
aspiring filmmakers, producers and visual creatives who wish to explore the whole film production journey, build an industry relevant portfolio and accrue specific film craft skills.
The creative industries are always on the look-out for the next pool of filmmakers, producers, screenwriters and digital craftspeople.
Ravensbourne's Digital Film Production degree in London offers you a practical understanding of the entire film production spectrum and focuses on building industry connections.
With access to industry standard film equipment, editing software and studio space, and teaching from experienced tutors working in industry, this course prepares you for a range of careers in audio-visual production.
Showreel created by DFP students and featuring both 2 nd and 3 rd year work.
Edited by Enfys Holmes.
Story/Directed: Veemsen Lama Produced: Tom Cullingham Written: Tayo Odesanya
The story: Maya, Bikram and Kancha suddenly find themselves trapped in the heart of Kathmandu.
Vulnerable, penniless and alone, they are forced to live their life on the streets with only hopes and dreams of happiness
Watch the full film here
This music video for BiG Heath was directed by Henry Oliver, produced by Jordi Estapé Montserrat, and Liam Morgan as Director of Photography as part of their final major project.
The work was shortlisted at the national stage of the RTS Student Television Awards in 2020.
As of 2023, it has amassed 3.6million views on YouTube.
Our reputable digital film production course in London combines the main elements of film production, screenwriting and film industry knowledge.
Taking a holistic and practical approach, you will explore the professional aspects of filmmaking and learn the core techniques of audio-visual storytelling through camera, lighting, sound and editing, along with production management, workflow and design.
Student films emerge from screenwriting classes, and we explore the industrial and critical understanding of contemporary filmmaking, including popular mainstream, art-house, documentary, music videos, and corporate work.
The course is underpinned by the film industry, with guest speakers and masterclasses bringing expert advice and networking from all parts of the sector.
Taught through a blend of practice and applied learning, which includes lectures, workshops, seminars, pitching sessions and self-directed study, the BA (Hons) Digital Film Production degree is led by production and broadcast experts with excellent industry experience.
With an emphasis on hands-on training, you will have access to high specification digital cameras, and the chance to hone your technical skillset on our sought-after cinematography module.
Our high-end computer labs offer the latest digital applications to facilitate sophisticated post-production, editing and grading.
In the final year major project, you can work collaboratively, applying the creative skills and critical theory you have developed on your undergraduate journey.
Many of our final projects go on screen in festivals and become proof of concept for larger industry projects.
With support throughout your degree to build showreels, portfolios and C.Vs, this course has a superb track record of employability for its graduates.
I was blown away at the calibre of the editing and post-production facilities.
More importantly, I was impressed with what the course offered, what it covered, and how it gave you a taste of everything including sound and audio, editing and post, scriptwriting, production management, cinematography and more.”
Thomas Bryan , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production graduate
The first year focuses on the development of craft skills, industry awareness, and deepening contextual understanding of moving image forms.
Production projects within both semesters require you to collaborate; juxtaposing craft skills workshops with more analytical sessions to enhance contextual understanding.
A focus on your career aspirations will be supported with employability workshops designed to both broaden your insights into moving image industries and to equip you with practical skills and knowledge.
Enhanced industry awareness in the first year will lead to the development of your CV and online profile.
During the second year, you will be encouraged to specialise in subject areas that align with your career aspirations.
You will choose to deepen your skills, knowledge and understanding in relation to up to three specialist moving image disciplines.
While the emphasis in your first year will be on conventions, in your second year there will be a shift towards experimentation, as you are encouraged to push the boundaries of what is possible in the creation of moving image content.
You will collaborate with students from beyond your course, working outside your comfort zone to develop soft skills and develop your emotional intelligence.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a work-based learning experience.
In your third year, you will continue to collaborate, but in a more self-directed mode.
You will apply everything you’ve learnt through your final major project, which will act as your calling card for potential employers.
Your contextual understanding and critical thinking will deepen as you undertake a Professional Practice Research Project, which is aligned to your individual career aspirations.
For this course, we would usually require a GCSE Grade 4 or above in English in addition to any of the below;
Our course will equip students with the skills and knowledge they need to forge a career in the technical or creative departments of film production companies, set up a studio, or become a freelance self-shooter.
Please note that a portfolio is not usually a requirement for this course.
However, we may still ask you for one if you have not met the entry requirements for the course or if your educational background is in a very different subject.
If we do ask you for a portfolio, you can provide the following :
With over 29k followers on her Instagram page 'You Look Okay to Me' and a fast growing YouTube presence, she has become a beacon of hope and inspiration for others out there.
Had his short film exploring masculinity through the biblical story of David and Goliath shortlisted by ‘The Pitch’.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/media-film-tv-music:
As digital media landscape rapidly evolves, so do the courses we offer here at Ravensbourne.
You’ll learn to stay agile to adapt to emerging trends, technological advancements and shifts in behaviour.
On our courses, you’ll create high-quality, engaging content across new and emerging platforms and formats.
BA (hons) Digital Television Production Showreel
Claudia Orriols Short film 'Sola' BA (Hons) Digital Film Production
Lewis Hart BA (Hons) Digital Photography
Connor McLaren Brotherly Love BA (Hons) Digital Film Production
Kristina Balevska BA (Hons) Digital Photography
Jake O'Connor Dealing Business BA (Hons) Digital Film Production
Producer: Andre Defer-Wyatt, director: Louis Turgoose The Trials BA (Hons) Digital Television Production
Taught by tutors and guest lecturers well established in industry, you’ll learn through a blend of practice and applied teaching.
Our courses will equip you with everything you need to stay ahead of the curve and to find rewarding careers in the digital media sphere.
There are many highlights from my time at Ravensbourne, including working with the Royal Shakespeare Company, where we directed a live show from the heart of Ravensbourne to hundreds of school children across the country, with professional BBC presenters.”
Jack Mooney , BA (Hons) Digital Television Production graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education/access-higher-education:
Ideal for: Creatively-minded adults returning to education with an interest in design or digital media with a view to continue on to an honours degree.
This course will give you the opportunity to consider your creative specialism and develop the skills, techniques and confidence you will need for degree-level study.
What's more...
Students who are 19+ can apply for an Advanced Learner Loan to cover the cost of their tuition fee - see 'The Specifics' section below for more information.
Meet Clem, our course leader for the Access to Higher Education diploma and find out about the benefits of studying on this course.
I can wholeheartedly say that the Access to HE course at Ravensbourne University has shaped my future and changed my life.
Completing the course really boosted my confidence as a creative and prepared me to enter the world of digital media and design.”
Brikena Dunisha , 2017 graduate
Jouan Kraghoul, Jouan Kraghoul, Interactive illustration
Anita Karklina Access to Higher Education, Final Major Project
Extended personal project realised through film, installation and performance
Sahra Casu, Access to Higher Education,
Animated and print outcomes for a group project
Marius Matasan , Access to Higher Education, Final Major Project
Extended personal project
Shahzoda Isomova, Access to Higher Education, Final Major Project
The Access to HE programme at Ravensbourne University was the third Access course I enrolled on after not completing the previous two at separate institutions due to a lack of engagement and interest.
I remember starting the Access to HE course at Ravensbourne University and saying to myself, “if I only knew that this institution provided Access to HE programmes when I first started to look into my options as a student above 21 years of age.”
Nico Froehlich , Graduated in 2017, award-winning freelance photographer and currently teaching at Ravensbourne
Most of our students go on to study a degree course, with many staying on at Ravensbourne.
If you do choose to stay, there is an internal progression award: Our foundation and access diploma graduates may be eligible for a one-off cash gift of £500 if they progress directly to an undergraduate degree course at Ravensbourne.
Below is the list of undergraduate courses you can progress to after completing an Access to Higher Education course at Ravensbourne:
Find more information about our progression scheme.
The deadline for application submission is 30 April 2025 for September 2025 entry.
We are currently still accepting applications.
Your first stage focuses on the core disciplines of design through:
You will explore the following subject areas:
This will help you develop a sense of where your skills and interests lie so that you can confidently choose the next stage of the course.
You will deepen and develop your knowledge of design practice culminating in working exclusively within your chosen subject area.
This will enable you to plan your next steps in entering higher education by developing a specialist portfolio for honours degree interview or your chosen career path.
We will encourage you to look and work beyond narrow definitions, and to collaborate with staff and students from other disciplines.
During this stage you will also develop a proposal for a final specialist project of study.
During the final stage, you will undertake and complete a major seven-week project, reflecting on your chosen specialist area and your planned progression path.
No formal qualifications are required.
Please note : Access to HE courses are not available to International Students requiring a Student Route visa.
Applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis through an interview, to assess applicants’ skills and enthusiasm to return to education.
Ravensbourne fully supports T-Level's as a new pathway to university study and will accept the relevant UCAS Tariff points for T-Level's across all courses.
Applications will be considered on a case by case basis through an interview, to assess applicants’ skills and enthusiasm to return to education.
You''ll also need to provide a portfolio of relevant work.
Please visit our portfolio guidance page for tips.
You should consider this course if you have a broad interest in film, production, animation, sound design, graphics, illustration, animation or 3D design.
Internal progression award: Our foundation and access diploma graduates may be eligible for a one-off cash gift of £500 if they progress directly to an undergraduate degree course at Ravensbourne.
Esther is now one of our postgraduate students having progressed all the way from foundation level.
Large fully equipped and industry-grade HDTV studio to equip students with the right technology to bring ideas to life.
State-of-the-art production control rooms featuring the very latest video and audio editing technology.
We have a fully working, industry-standard TV studio, complete with gallery for undergraduates studying editing and production.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education/ual-level-3-foundation-diploma-art-and-design-fashion-and-textiles:
Find information on fees in The Specifics section below.
This course allows students to try their hand at fashion and textile design activities, helping them assess their strengths and confirm your degree aspirations.
They'll have free rein to experiment with the wide range of techniques available to our students at Ravensbourne.
Meet Natalie, course leader for our Foundation studies programmes here at Ravensbourne and find out about the benefits of studying on this course.
students keen to try their hand at fashion and textile design activities.
Students will receive practical guidance throughout their diploma, including interview preparation and how to best present their portfolio.
As well as higher education opportunities, we can help students find the right pathway to progress directly into internships or work.
This course exposes students to fashion and textile design activities to help assess strengths and confirm degree aspirations.
The end of year Fashion Catwalk Show provides a high-profile platform where can students present their final collections to an audience of industry insiders, peers, and the public.
Your first stage features a series of introductory projects focusing on the core disciplines of fashion and textiles through:
As a fashion and textiles student, you will explore the following subject areas:
You will also undertake a contextual studies lecture series and written assignment.
You will deepen and develop specialist knowledge within your chosen subject area.
You will be able to fully integrate research, ideas and methods to negotiate successful practical outcomes underpinned by theoretical understanding.
This will enable you to build a competitive portfolio when applying for higher education and employment.
You will choose between the two pathways:
During the final stage, you will undertake and complete a major seven- week project, reflecting on your chosen specialist area of fashion and textiles and your planned progression path; this project will culminate in a public exhibition of your work.
Most students go on to higher education and many to Ravensbourne fashion degree courses.
If you decide to go directly into work, we’ll help you to find opportunities.
Below is the list of undergraduate courses you can progress to after completing this Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Fashion and Textiles) course at Ravensbourne:
BA (Hons) Fashion
BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management
BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion
Students for foundation diplomas are normally expected to possess four GCSEs, grade C or above, including English and Maths.
Students are also normally expected to possess one of the following:
Other relevant and equivalent qualifications are considered on an individual basis.
Admission onto this course is subject to successful review of your portfolio.
Please read our portfolio guidance page for more information on how to prepare your portfolio.
We generally recommend providing around 15–20 images of your work.
The portfolio should provide evidence of your creative interests, whether it be in the form of drawings, photographs, video, film, animation, graphics, fashion, products, paintings, sculpture, models or assemblage, which shows your creative impulses and responses.
On successful completion of this course, most students go on to higher education, and many to a wide range of Ravensbourne degree courses.
If you decide to go directly into work, we’ll help you find opportunities.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education/ual-level-3-foundation-diploma-art-and-design-design-and-media:
If students have a broad interest in digital media and design, then this course is ideal.
Our staff will encourage students to experiment with craft and digital technology and build a portfolio of work, showing a range of processes.
students with a broad interest in digital media and design.
This is our most popular foundation diploma, offering a strong introduction to all the specialist subject areas that Ravensbourne has to offer such as graphics, broadcast media and 3D design.
Students should consider this course if they have a broad interest in digital media and design.
They will experiment with craft and digital technology and build a portfolio of work, showing a range of processes.
Internal progression award: Our foundation and access diploma graduates may be eligible for a one-off cash gift of £500 if they progress directly to an undergraduate degree course at Ravensbourne.
Hear from Orla and Dudley about what it is like studying here at Ravensbourne.
Your first stage features a series of introductory projects focusing on the core disciplines of:
Design and media students will then explore a range of different subject areas, including:
Design and Media students will elect a Pathway from one of the following diagnosed disciplines:
During the final stage, you will undertake and complete a major seven-week project, reflecting on your chosen specialist area and your planned progression path, culminating in a public exhibition of your work.
Ravensbourne fully supports T-Levels as a new pathway to university study and will accept the relevant UCAS Tariff points for T-Levels across all courses.
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England, language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international section.
Students studying on this Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Design and Media) course, after the first six weeks, can elect one of the below pathways as the focus of their studies.
The courses that sit underneath the pathways correspond to the undergraduate courses available at Ravensbourne that students can progress on to after completing the Foundation Diploma.
BA (Hons) Architecture
BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication
BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures
BA (Hons) Product Design
BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Motion Graphics
Students can also join either of our other Foundation Diplomas after the first six weeks too.
These are:
Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Media Production)
Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Fashion and Textiles)

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education/ual-level-3-foundation-diploma-art-and-design-media-production:
Our foundation diploma allows you to experience broadcast and media production practice to help you assess your strengths and confirm your specialist area of interest.
students keen to gain broadcast and media production practice.
You will receive practical guidance throughout, including interview preparation and how to best present your portfolio.
As well as higher education opportunities, we can help you find the right pathway to progress directly into internships or work.
In the first stage as a media production student you will explore the following subject areas:
This series of introductory projects incorporates core disciplines of narrative and non-linear storytelling.
These are explored through research, observation skills and digital media manipulation.
During the final stage, you will undertake and complete a major seven- week project, reflecting on your chosen specialist area and your planned progression path; this project will culminate in a public exhibition of your work.
Admission onto this course is subject to successful review of your portfolio or showreel.
Please read our portfolio guidance page for more information on how to prepare your portfolio/showreel.
We generally recommend providing around 15–20 images of your work, or a showreel.
Below is the list of undergraduate courses you can progress to after completing this Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Media Production) course at Ravensbourne:
BA (Hons) Animation
BA (Hons) Digital Film Production
BA (Hons) Games Design
BA (Hons) Digital Television Production
BA (Hons) Digital Photography
BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/further-education/progressing-ravensbourne:
With our further education to undergraduate progression scheme all home students studying on one of our further education courses are automatically eligible to progress onto an undergraduate degree course.
Our progression scheme means that as long as you pass your further education course, you are guaranteed a place at Ravensbourne to continue your studies on an undergraduate course.
We understand studying can be a huge cost in the current economic climate and balancing finances can make academic life harder.
We are pleased to offer a £500 internal progression award to students who progress onto any one of our undergraduate courses.
If you have any questions relating to further education to undergraduate progression, please email [email protected] and we will be more than happy to help.
I was completely unsure of what I wanted to study at uni, which is why I did the foundation year at Ravensbourne.
That course helped me realize that I have a wide range of visual creative skills and fashion promotion was the best course for me, as it was so broad.
Since starting the BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion course I have been able to work on fashion editorials for brands like Lacoste and Bottega Veneta, which is so much fun.
However, the most exciting days for me are getting to work on cover shoots.”
Malaika Munshi , Former further education and current BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion student

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/ba-hons-3d-animation-integrated-foundation-year:
aspiring 3D animators and visual creatives who wish to build up foundational knowledge prior to entering an undergraduate degree.
The year zero 3D animation course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) 3D Animation degree and is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
This course will ignite your creativity and imagination, so you can discover new ways of making, thinking and documenting.
Visual communication has augmented in recent decades, with animators in high demand in sectors such as: TV, film, gaming, corporate films, advertising and the media.
BA (Hons) 3D Animation Year 0 is not a standalone course; it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
When you successfully complete your prep year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) 3D Animation degree in London.
Your tutors will nurture your creative potential and support you while you learn the essential practical, intellectual and transferable skills needed to confidently enter undergraduate study.
As well as developing fundamental skills, you will also be given a broad grounding in your chosen specialist area, an understanding of the cultural contexts of the creative industries, and the ability to develop hardware and software suitable for animation practice.
This is your entry point into a thrilling academic journey and career in animation and related creative disciplines.
If you’re not quite ready to apply for one of our undergraduate degrees, then our year zero route into higher education can provide you with a basic grounding in your subject and a smooth transition into your chosen degree.
These are not standalone courses; they are the first stage of a full bachelor’s degree, designed to encourage creativity, stimulate imagination and develop skills.
It’s the ideal option if you:
During the additional year of study, you’ll gain the fundamental knowledge, critical awareness and practical skills which are essential when embarking on degree-level studies.
Our friendly and dedicated tutors will nurture your creative potential and support you while you learn the essential practical, intellectual and transferable skillset needed to confidently enter into Year 1.
You’ll be supported by a dedicated team of professional staff who will place emphasis on building your confidence and fostering your creative potential.
In a stimulating studio environment, you’ll explore and experiment with processes and ideas.
You will be taught within an open and inclusive design and media environment that supports the development of the creative individual.
You’re encouraged to collaborate whilst developing your specialist portfolio and honing professional skills, ethics and industry knowledge.
Alongside your portfolio, you will have had the opportunity to cultivate your creative voice and to think broadly and adaptively, improving your ability to take initiative, communicate effectively and develop a strong global perspective.
You'll explore animation fundamentals, body mechanics, acting performance, visual narrative and rigging.
You’ll engage with the animation industry and collaborate with different disciplines to explore a range of observational and contextual subject-related areas.
Downloadable 3D Animation with Integrated Foundation Year course specification
Downloadable BA (Hons) 3D Animation course specification
Year 0 is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) 3D Animation course.
It is an ideal opportunity for you to further develop your portfolio skills ahead of degree study.
You will build fundamental skills in contemporary animation software and equipment and begin to learn the art of storytelling, combining creative thinking and applied techniques.
We will encourage you to start thinking about your own reflective practice and contextual studies research.
You will specialise within animation production, in areas such as visual effects and character performance.
This will allow you to enhance your practice and develop an approach to your personal creative output.
We aim to set a variety of live project briefs, giving students the opportunity to work with industry and find mentors in order to develop and hone their professional skills.
Students are further supported in securing a work-based learning opportunity at the end of their second year.
You will bring your learnings together in a final major animation project, with the aim of pitching your skills to other students on the course and eventually to industry.
We will also ask you to show your contextual studies research and thinking through a long-form dissertation.
Finally, you will complete a personal portfolio of your skills, so you are ready for entry into your industry of choice.
You will be continuously evaluated based on project presentations, written work, essays, experimentation and research evidence, blogs, and reports.
Modules have both Formative and Summative assessment points with feedback and advice provided, and a final grade awarded.
Visit our website for more information.
When you successfully complete your prep year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) Animation degree in London.
Students should ideally have a background in art, creative media, or design.
We welcome applicants who are able to demonstrate their abilities through the submission of a relevant portfolio showing their skills, abilities and suitability to the course.
When assessing if an applicant meets our entry requirements we may also consider the combination of a portfolio and academic qualifications, progress made during studies and/or relevant work experience.
For entry to Year 0 applicants are selected on the basis of:
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) 3D Animation with Year 0 degree course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Drawing: Although you might go on and specialise in a discipline that is not drawing heavy, drawing is the DNA of what we do in year 0.
Your portfolio should include evidence of drawing.
This could include; life drawing, character design, landscape drawing, experimental drawing or even technical drawing.
Animation: Animators could have storyboards, animatics, rudimentary animations, some narrative development like a comic or an illustrated children’s book or even a working knowledge of some of the basic principles of animation.
Sketchbooks: It’s really important that we see evidence of how you work things out in your head.
A sketchbook is a perfect place to do that.
If it’s a digital portfolio submission then scan a couple of strong pages in your sketchbook, if it’s physical then bring two or three.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation:
creatives ready to push their animation skills and connections through theory and practice-based learning.
Looking for a degree that combines masterful storytelling with your artistic communication skills?
Our BA in Animation will nurture your natural creative talent as you learn to define meaning and purpose through the development of your ideas.
With this course you'll learn the intricacies of character animation techniques and pre-production workflows including character design, visual development, layout design and storyboarding.
In year one, your will study key fundamental skills of animation and using industry-standard software, explore the likes of timing, posing, movement and behaviour.
You will be encouraged to experiment and improvise with your ideas and take responsibility for your work.
You will be given insight into the industry through guest speakers and adopt a learning-by-doing approach with live tasks set by practitioners and receive feedback directly on your work.
The modules are designed to build a solid understanding of the animation pipeline and prepare you for progression into year 2 and 3.
In year two, you will build on your animation skills through acting workshops and the exploration into visual development.
Each module will challenge and develop your storytelling techniques and narratives in preparation for industry.
You will also work on live projects with mentors there to assist you.
Industry guests will continue to support the modules in year 2 through a series of masterclasses and workshops.
At the end of your second year, you will undertake a mandatory work-based learning module within industry.
Modules may include:
In year 3, you will focus on tailoring your portfolio to suit your chosen specialism for employment.
Your portfolio will reflect your skills and achievements which will be relevant to the sector of your choice.
As you prepare for a career as an animator, you will be encouraged to work with fellow course mates and work alongside those in other courses such as Animation (3D), Games Courses and Music and Sound Design.
This cross-disciplinary collaboration will allow you to share knowledge with your peers and deepen your understanding of interrelated industries you could work with once you secure employment.
Each module will develop your creative processes by teaching with a blend of theory and practice-based workflows.
This will give you the opportunity to not only to harness your inner creativity but build your personal brand as an animator.
You will also be taught the importance of building both personal and professional life skills, to adapt to the opportunities and challenges of today’s world of work.
Essays, blog entries, business plans and reports form part of the requirements of the course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation-integrated-foundation-year:
aspiring animators and visual creatives who wish to build up foundational knowledge prior to entering an undergraduate degree.
The year zero animation course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) Animation degree and is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
Animation Year 0 is not a standalone course; it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
I've just watched all of these wonderful animations from the very talented Ravensbourne students for A British History In Weather and they are lovely – moving, subtle and beautifully done.
What a wonderful partnership.
Thank you so much”
Year 0 is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Animation course.
You will be continuously assessed based on project presentations, written work, essays, experimentation and research evidence, blogs, and reports.
Kim and Kofi met at Ravensbourne and are now married and running a business together

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-art:
anyone wishing to break into the ever-expanding world of games art.
This BA (Hons) Games Art degree in London places making and experimentation at the centre of your learning.
Explore the fundamentals of 2D and 3D art creation and utilise state-of-the-art technologies to build intricate games worlds and convincing characters.
The huge rise of gaming in recent years has seen the sector develop rapidly, to become the biggest entertainment industry in the world.
The growth of this sector has created a vast amount of new employment opportunities.
This BA (Hons) Games Art course in London will enable you to build the skills and confidence to harness these opportunities and secure roles within the vast field of game art.
Our course is part of a suite of other Games courses, which foster collaboration and interdisciplinary co-production, mirroring the partnerships vital to thriving in the professional games industry.
In your first year, you will delve into the various art roles in the industry, allowing you to specialise and focus as you progress toward your final year.
A specific work-based learning module in year two will enhance your industry awareness and allow you to build valuable connections.
Your learning will address sociopolitcal considerations and will inspire you to use your creative process to address personal and global issues relating to the environment, gender, race and diversity.
You will leave Ravensbourne equipped with not only extensive knowledge and skills in games art, but also with the confidence to work collaboratively, solve problems and thrive in the wider business landscape.
Concept art in video games refers to the visual representation of ideas, designs, and artistic concepts used in the pre-production and development stages of a video game.
It is a crucial aspect of the game development process, providing a visual foundation and guiding the artistic direction of the game.
Key aspects of concept art in video games include:
Visualising game elements: Concept artists create artwork to depict various aspects of the game, such as characters, environments, creatures, objects, and vehicles.
These visual representations help the development team visualise how the game will look and feel.
Character design: Concept art is used to design and visualise characters in the game.
The artwork can define elements such as their appearance, outfits and other visual characteristics.
Environment design: Concept art showcases the game's environments and sets the general tone and mood for a game.
This helps environment artists to create fully immersive game worlds.
Storyboarding: In some cases, concept artists create storyboards, which are sequences of illustrations that visually depict key moments or events in the game's narrative.
Storyboards help the development team plan and understand how the game's story will unfold.
Game designers
Level designers
QA technician
Environment artists
Concept artists
Character artists
Asset artist
Materials artist
Shader designer
Technical artist
Character rigger
Production assistant
Mo-Cap technician
Gameplay programmer
Unreal developer
Unity developer
VR developer
Environment artist
Optical capture tech
VR Dev
Game and app designer
Visualisation dev
Performance tech
Shader design
Experience designer
3D artist
Designer
Downloadable Course Specification
Each year of study offers you a clear and defined route into a chosen industry discipline within games art departments.
From the start, you’ll engage with students across different games courses, in shared modules and collaborative group work.
Year one focuses on the key skills required for games development and an introduction to the entire development lifecycle.
You will engage in debate around the cultural and political nature of games and development.
Key study topics in year one includes:
Year one will be taught alongside students from BA (Hons) Games Development, BSc (Hons) Games Programming and BA (Hons) Games Design for at least two modules across the semesters.
In year two, you will start your journey into the design and creation of art assets for the games industry.
You’ll research concepts and build for AAA game, independent games and tabletop.
Key study topics in year two includes:
In year three, you will refine the skills acquired in year two and focus your efforts towards developing a considered piece of work for your final submission.
We are looking for aspiring artists who have a curiosity for both games and art.
We would like to see a variety of both traditional and digital art and design work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Examples of work could include the following.
Please show evidence of how research has informed your work as an artist/ designer, we are keen to see artists who think deeply about their work.
We recommend using a platform like ArtStation or similar.
Ravensbourne have strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung, Massive Monster, Frontier, MilkBubblesgames, Rocksteady, Mojo nation, Aethetica Mag, Antivenin Games and many more.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-art-integrated-foundation-year:
aspiring games artists, who wish to build up foundational knowledge prior to entering an undergraduate degree.
The year zero games art course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) Games Art degree and is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
This four year BA (Hons) Games Art degree in London places making and experimentation at the centre of your learning.
Games Art Year 0 is not a standalone course; it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
When you successfully complete your preparatory year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) Games Art degree in London.
As well as developing fundamental skills, you will also be given a broad grounding in your chosen specialist area, and an understanding of the cultural contexts of the creative industries.
This is your entry point into a thrilling academic journey and career in games art and related creative disciplines.
Year 0 course specification
BA (Hons) Games Art course specification coming soon
Year 0 is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Games Art course.
It is an ideal opportunity for you to further develop your portfolio skills ahead of degree studies
In year one, you will build the key skills required for games development and engage in debate around the cultural and political nature of games and development.
In year two, you will start your journey into the design and creation of design assets for the games industry; from research to concepts to building for AAA game, independent games or tabletop.
Year three is designed to sharpen the skills learnt in year two and to develop your unique skillset to enable you to produce a considered final submission.
You will refine your professional practice in order to graduate with everything you need to find fulfilling roles within the industry area of your choice.
You will be continually assessed through various tasks such as blogs, reports, presentations and evidence of experimentation and research.
Each module has a formative and a summative assessment point, where feedback and advice are provided to develop and complete projects and a final grade is awarded.
When you successfully complete your prep year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) Games Art course in London.
Graduates will be able to pursue work in a number of roles and fields including but not limited to the game industries, the TV and Film industries and the VR and digital industries.
We are looking for examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-design:
anyone eager to pursue a career as a games maker, either in the AAA or independent markets.
This multi-disciplinary game making course will provide you with the fundamental skills to work in this fast-moving industry.
You will work with state-of-the-art technologies and production methods to develop key skills in games making.
Explore the likes of games mechanics, player psychology and games narratives and have the flexibility choose your own specialism.
Develop key skills in narrative and story telling
Prepares you for a career as a games maker, either in the AAA or independent markets
In this dynamic games design course in London, UK, you will learn core mechanical and narrative skills across three industry specialisms:
World building and narrative
Games and level design
Technical design
You will develop the necessary creative and professional skills to design games pipelines through from concept to production.
In your first year, you will explore the various games design roles within the industry.
You will then be given the opportunity to specialise, based on the area that matches your unique skillsets and interests.
A work-based learning module in year two will enhance your industry awareness and enable you to build your network before you even graduate.
You will leave Ravensbourne with an extensive knowledge of games design and the collaborative and entrepreneurial skills needed to thrive in varied roles within the creative industries.
In year one, you will build the key skills required for games design and engage in debate around the cultural and political nature of games and development.
Key study topics include:
Application information for this course will be made available shortly, in the meantime register your interest for 2024 and you’ll be the first to hear, once more information is available.
Game design refers to the process of creating and developing the rules, mechanics, structure, and overall experience of a video game or any interactive gaming product.
The ultimate goal of game design is to craft an engaging and immersive gameplay experience for players.
Some key aspects of game design include:
Game mechanics: Mechanics determine what actions players can take and how they interact with the game world.
For example, jumping, shooting, and collecting items are all game mechanics.
Level design: This involves designing the layout and environments of the game's levels or stages.
Level designers create spaces for players to explore, complete objectives, and face various obstacles to keep the gameplay engaging.
Storytelling and narrative design: Some games rely on storytelling to immerse players in the game world.
Narrative designers create the game's plot, characters, and dialogues, allowing players to connect emotionally with the game's universe.
This course can prepare you for varied careers in a number of different industries and roles.
Narrative designers
Gameplay designers
Mission designers
Technical designer
Localisation technician
Visualisation dev medical imaging
Unity developer training
Unity developer PG progression

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-design-integrated-foundation-year:
aspiring games designers who wish to build up foundational knowledge prior to entering an undergraduate degree.
The year zero games design course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) Games Design degree and is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
You will develop the necessary creative and professional skills to:
Games Design Year 0 is not a standalone course; it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
When you successfully complete your prep year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) Games Design degree in London.
This is your entry point into a thrilling academic journey and career in games design and related creative disciplines.
Year 0 course specification coming soon
Downloadable BA (Hons) Games Design course specification
Year 0 is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Games Design course.
Key modules include:
When you successfully complete your prep year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BA (Hons) Games Design course in London.
We will use a number of methods to assess an applicant’s suitability for their course of choice.
Primarily applicants are selected on the basis of:
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Animation with Year 0 degree course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-development:
aspiring game makers who wish to create imaginative games and gaming stories through a variety of mediums.
From designing characters and environments to pitching ideas to industry, you will leave this reputable multidisciplinary gaming degree with an enviable portfolio of work.
Thrive in the world of games development and discover your niche by focusing on one of three key gaming areas: games art, technical design or design and production.
Digital explorers For the first time ever, Ravensbourne University fashion and gaming students collaborate to chart a course for the future of fashion in the wake of Covid-19.
The booming games industry is at the forefront of innovation, with gaming technologies finding their way into a myriad of industries, including architecture, filmmaking and medicine.
The sector inspires innovation by continually pushing the boundaries and driving companies to create new technologies.
There is no better time to be a part of the thrilling computer games industry.
This games development degree in London, UK, gives you the fundamental skills you need to successfully design and develop games of all kinds.
You will work with a broad range of briefs across table top, mobile, console and computer to engage with the wider elements of games culture and practice.
With access to cutting-edge technology and deep industry contacts, you’ll create exciting and imaginative games that tell stories and explore how games have changed the way we think and interact.
You will explore different roles within the industry as well as the visual side of development, learning how gaming stories are told and delivered.
Game making is central to this course, pushing students to develop their own practice in a supportive and critical environment.
Working both independently and collaboratively, you will learn industry level skillsets in game engine technologies, games culture and game design fundamentals.
The course reflects forward thinking industry practice in its approach to technical design as a growing discipline within games development, alongside more established avenues such as technical art and games design.
From the get go, you’ll be able to build your game design thinking alongside your technical skills and encourage you to engage with industry.
From your second year you’ll be able to specialise in one of our discipline pathways:
Students are introduced to the fundamentals of games programming, architecture and the relevant media skills essential for games development.
Throughout the year, students learn the practices and conventions of industry protocols alongside personal development attributes required for success while at university and in the world of work.
Progressing from the essential foundations of games development, the focus in Year 2 moves towards the specific technical skills necessary for game development across the range of creative possibilities.
Here, students will begin growing into their desired specialism that will see collaboration with students and professionals from related and other academic disciplines.
Students in their final year are given the opportunity to undertake a significant and sustained individual development project.
This will pull together all the previous experience strands of their study, and provide the tailoring of a portfolio of work that will act as your professional calling card into the industry.
You will graduate with strong concept skills and technical expertise.
Graduates go on to a wide range of roles, including but not limited to:
Game Developer – Develops the concept, mechanics, and rules of a game, shaping the player experience and implements them
Level/ Map Developer – implements game levels, maps, and environments, focusing on layout, gameplay flow, and player challenges
Game Programmer/Software Engineer/ Game Scriptor  – Codes game systems, mechanics, and AI, often specializing in languages like C++/ Unreal Blueprints or C#
3D Artist/Modeler – Creates 3D models for characters, environments, and props using tools like Maya or ZBrush.
Or uses tools like MetaHumans to create characters in games
Animator – Designs character and object animations, working on motion, rigging, and skeletal systems within game engines
UI/UX Developer – Develops user interfaces and focuses on creating an intuitive user experience for players within game engines
Sound Designer/Audio Engineer – Creates and integrates sound effects, dialogue, and music to enhance the game atmosphere within game engines
Quality Assurance Tester – Tests games for bugs, functionality, and usability, ensuring a polished final product
Game Producer/Project Manager – Oversees project timelines, budgets, and team coordination to complete games on schedule
Technical Artist – Bridges the gap between art and programming, optimizing graphics performance and tools for 3D animators.
If you do submit a portfolio you are required to upload no more than 10 pieces of work to a blog or microsite.
The blog
The blog should be something easy to set up and access.
Tumblr is quick and easy to get up and running.
You can also use an existing blog you have.
Things to remember:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-games-development-integrated-foundation-year:
Currently reading: Course structure and admissions
aspiring game makers who wish to create imaginative games and gaming stories through a variety of mediums.
This year zero course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BA (Hons) Games Development course.
Aimed at students who want more time before year one to develop their skills, this is an ideal entry-level course for aspiring game makers who wish to create imaginative games through a variety of mediums.
An entertaining career in games design and computer gaming starts here.
The course focuses on giving students a solid understanding of games development, the creative process, and the technical knowledge to realise it.
The course explores the contemporary gaming industry across a broad range of experiences – from the latest console blockbusters to virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR).
Games-first approach, putting making at the centre of teaching
Truly understand the needs and desires of computer games players
Flexibility to specialise in your favourite games development discipline
Build a critical language and understanding of games development
Develop a diverse understanding of games technologies.
Year zero is an excellent entry point into our BA (Hons) Games Development course, which may suit you if:
Game engine technologies
Games culture and practice
Game design fundamentals
Table top
Mobile
Console
Computer
The games industry.
Download Year 0 course specification
Download BA (Hons) Games Development course specification
The Foundation year (or year 0) is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Games Development
The foundation year course is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
The course begins with Crafting Your Practice 1 and 2 which aims to teach the students some of the core fundamentals of their practice as well as some basic drawing and design processes.
Year 1 of this course will introduce you to the game's development process and core disciplinary technologies alongside study options that enable a degree of specialisation in one of those core disciplines:
You will also engage with and be trained in the use of digital platforms for effective delivery of outcomes including games, presentations, documentation, and prototypes.
You will work alongside students from other games courses on collaborative projects enabling you to develop team working and help you understanding of key development workflows.
Throughout this stage of the course, you will also be introduced to what currently constitutes innovative practice within games programming and explores the interplay of innovation and technological development.
This will be supported by visists and practical workshops from industry speakers and specialists.
Students will have the opportunity to undertake a work-based learning opportunity at the end of semester 2, supporting them in developing their entrepreneurship and employability skills.
A sizeable proportion of project-based work will be initiated and developed by students themselves, with a view to mastering skills particular to their interests within the discipline.
You will be encouraged to dive deeper into your interests through individual tutorials and self-directed study, utilising online and physical resources.
You will complete major projects tied to your chosen discipline at the end of your 3rd year.
UK students
If you do submit a portfolio you will be required to upload no more than 10 pieces of work to a blog or microsite.
You will graduate with strong concept skills and technical expertise.
Graduates work in areas such as:
Key links:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-games-programming:
aspiring computer games programmers and coders who wish to develop a deep technical understanding of the games industry.
This games programming degree will help you become a master programmer and stay at the very forefront of the games evolution.
You will develop unrivalled skills within programming and scripting, content generation, artificial intelligence and networking and multiplayer.
Digital explorers - For the first time ever, Ravensbourne University fashion and gaming students collaborate to chart a course for the future of fashion in the wake of Covid-19.
With no prior knowledge in coding or programming needed, this computer games programming degree in London will provide you with the tools and confidence to thrive in the competitive world of gaming.
Working side by side with games artists and designers, you will develop an extensive knowledge of games engines and programming architecture.
This course equips you with everything you need to excel in a coding career in the games industries.
You will develop industry-level skillsets in programming and the ability to solve creative problems, whilst building the confidence to work both independently and as part of a team.
The BSc (Hons) Games Programming course curriculum will introduce students to programming languages (C++ and C#), games engines (Unreal and Unity), and the development of specialist skills within programming, scripting, procedural content generation, and artificial intelligence (AI).
Collaborative practice, game jams and working with industry will be fundamental aspects of your academic journey.
You will master game technologies and hone your ability to utilise industry-specific tools to develop games for mobile, indie and AAA console games.
Sitting alongside the BA (Hons) Games Development course, this three-year computer games programming course reflects forward thinking industry practice in its approach to games programming and how it meshes with the other games development disciplines.
Graduates go on to pursue a range of careers in some of the following roles: games programmer, gameplay programmer and software engineer.
The skills acquired as part of the course offer potential for application within other aligned areas of computing such as mainstream programming and web/app development.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-architecture:
aspiring architects inquisitive about how spaces can reflect and shape how we live.
If you are an imaginative individual hoping to explore different creative and technical industries, and aiming to make an impact in the world around you, then this course could be for you.
Through this architecture degree course, you will take inspiration from art, philosophy and technology to explore the spaces and places we inhabit.
With access to gold-standard facilities and the highest-calibre teaching, you will develop your own creative vision by exploring the role architecture plays in shaping our society.
A short film of former student Bradley Gladden at work.
Explore more of Jake's work
Explore more of Maimana's work
Project: Sports Therapy Centre
Instagram: @jcarchdesign
Project: Sports therapy centre Instagram: @jcarchdesign
Final major project work
Students from the BA (Hons) Architecture course have built a brand-new, experimental platform for their virtual neighbourhood.
Here, virtual visitors will be able to walk around inside student’s architectural projects and neighbourhoods and discover the students’ design process.
From private buildings to public spaces, architecture plays a crucial role in the fabric of society, shaping our towns and cities and influencing how we live, work and play.
It’s a field in which your create visions can make a huge impact on our everyday lives.
In graduating from this esteemed architecture course in London, you will possess multidisciplinary knowledge and vital transferable skills, which will prepare you for a career within the many threads of architecture.
These include: urban design, housing and office design, planning, building conservation, architectural heritage and community development.
Whether you are an aspiring architect or building conservationist, this architecture degree will escalate your understanding of both the practical and theoretical aspects of architecture, its history and philosophy, as well as its role in contemporary culture, urbanism, construction, structural design and environmental design.
You will study the design of buildings and the technical aspects of construction, as well as how architecture relates to all aspects of our lives.
During the three-year degree in architecture, you’ll learn through a mix of problem-based outcomes, design studio tutoring, workshops and traditional lectures.
Ultimately, you will discover your architectural vision, refine your design skills and emerge with a sophisticated portfolio of work, so you can stand tall in the global architectural marketplace.
This course is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), providing exemption for RIBA Part 1 examination.
Graduates of this course will no longer be accredited by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) at Part 1 level.
ARB has revised its requirements and will no longer prescribe undergraduate qualifications after December 31, 2027.
Find out more about these changes on our professional body information page.
Architects' Journal reveals the entries to this year’s AJ Student Prize, with submissions from every RIBA and ARB-accredited school in the UK.
One of the main things that appealed to me about Ravensbourne was the collaboration and the opportunity to learn multiple disciplines whilst on the course.
Ravensbourne was different as the architecture course gave us a vast range of topics to study under, from masterplanning, interior, product design and live projects”
Oshane Woodhouse , BA (Hons) Architecture graduate
The first year of the course, introduces the student to the different aspects of built environment study, the design process and the underpinning skills and theory.
In the second year of this degree in architecture, you will gain a greater understanding of urban design, branded environments, rehabilitation projects and the history of the city.
This will allow you to enhance your practice and develop your approach to design work.
We set briefs that will encourage you to collaborate with other students and create work as part of a design team.
You will bring your learning together in a final negotiated major project, where you will investigate and make architectural design decisions.
You will also carry out a negotiated project which takes the form of a live brief.
Furthermore, we ask students to show their contextual studies research and thinking in a long-form dissertation.
You will leave with a portfolio that showcases your enhanced skillset in the various strands of entry-level architecture.
Please note : direct entry into year three is not available for this course.
We are looking for creative candidates, interested and wishing to pursue a career in architecture, urban landscape, interior architecture and different interactions around space and the built form.
Our set of courses work together and will allow you to discover what pathway suits you best.
This is the beginning of your journey.
Our priority is understanding if these are the right courses for you to develop your own professional voice.
Show us why you want to join our creative and exciting community.
The portfolio should provide evidence of your creative interests, whether it be in the form of drawings, sketches, graphic design, photography, video, film, animation, fashion, products, paintings, sculpture, models or assemblage, which shows your creative impulses and responses.
It is a demonstration of the diversity of the applicant's creative interests.
The course will provide students with multi-disciplinary knowledge and vital transferable skills across the following strands of architecture:
Study architecture in London – in an award-winning building
Explore all the sights of London, including the famous London Eye.
Take a tour around London and check out the incredible street art.
London's breathtaking skyline.
Explore all the sights London has to offer, including the famous Globe Theatre.
Explore all the sights that London has to offer, including the famous Tate Modern art gallery.
Architectural Assistant at Barr Gazetas Architect Practice
Part 1 Architectural Assistant at Grafik Architecture
Inspiration is on your doorstep.
London’s universities are ideally placed to teach architecture, due to the city's rich history, heritage and architectural landmarks.
With four UNESCO World Heritage sites and more than 20,000 other heritage and historical sites, London-based students and citizens are never far from an iconic building.
On top of a wealth of libraries, theatres and galleries, there are many iconic buildings that roll off the tongue, such as: The Shard, the Gherkin, London Bridge, The Tower of London, Big Ben, Westminster Abbey, St Paul's Cathedral, Houses of Parliament and much more.
Ravensbourne University London resides in London’s creative Design District, just a stone throw away (literally) from the modern architectural masterpiece, The O2.
The architecture degree length is three years if you study at Ravensbourne University London, which is the same duration as most BA Honours degree courses in the UK.
The course will provide you with multidisciplinary knowledge and vital transferable skills, and prepare you for a career within the many aspects of architecture, such as urban design, housing and office design, planning, building conservation, architectural heritage and community development.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-interior-design-environment-architectures:
creatives who wish to reimagine our digital and physical worlds through interior architecture and design.
If you are interested in the re-use of buildings and the impact of climate and resources, then this course could be for you.
In this compelling interior architecture degree course, you will explore both the traditional and contemporary to become a multidisciplinary master of architecture and interior design.
With access to gold-standard facilities, you will develop a mix of theoretical and practical design skills, and apply them to reimagine both commercial and retail environments
Explore more of Sophie's work
Explore more of Aaron's work
Instrgram: @yulia_ideas
Personal bio: I believe that creativity and inspiration originate from the mixture of polar thoughts and ideas.
Design as a tool of communication plays a crucial part in delivering these artistic concepts to the rest of the world.
As a designer I am constantly feeling an urge to be delivering a profound message to an audience through creation of unique spaces and objects in response to its contemporary needs.
I have the technical capability and courage to make an innovative and sensitive contribution to the world of your practice, due to my endless curiosity, energy and awareness of the global value of design.
Instagram: @yulia_ideas
At home, in work or on the move, interior design plays an increasingly important role in defining the identity and atmosphere of a room, building or space – and how people will consciously and subconsciously interact with it.
Whilst studying this interior design architecture course in London, you will develop your own visual language by shadowing industry experts and established professionals in their own practices.
During the three-year interior architecture and design degree, you will research, investigate and evolve ideas surrounding the creation, rehabilitation and reimagining of new and existing buildings and spaces.
Taught by industry experts, many of whom run their own design practices, you will develop your own visual language and develop your personality as an interior designer.
Working with contemporary technologies in our design studio and workshops, you’ll explore and push design boundaries, balance style and function, examine user-experience, and consider the importance of sustainability.
You will learn the tools and techniques that equip students with the necessary skillsets to navigate our digital and physical worlds through design.
If creating interior spaces across residential, office, retail, industrial or community environments ignites your passion, our BA (Hons) degree in Interior Design Environment Architectures will open the door to a range of career possibilities across new built environments and the rejuvenation and repurposing of existing buildings.
You’ll research, investigate and evolve ideas surrounding the creation, rehabilitation and reimagining of new and existing buildings and spaces.
This is the only course of its kind worldwide to be validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects.
The support from my tutors was truly incredible.
The difference in quality between my first and final year is kind of crazy.”
Joshua Welch , BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures graduate
While our architecture graduates will go on to work on projects that focus on planning and building an outside structure, graduates from our interior architecture course will create, rehabilitate, and reimagine the interior of new and existing buildings and spaces.
On our interior architecture course, you will develop your own visual voice and style as you redesign interior environments, while retaining respect for the historical elements.
Our course equips future interior architects with the practical and theoretical skills to be able to walk into any commercial or retail environment and use their adaptive mind to redesign the interior into a functional and aesthetically captivating space.
Our location in London, means we are ideally placed to teach this course, due to the city's rich history, heritage and architectural landmarks.
With four UNESCO World Heritage sites and more than 20,000 other heritage and historical sites, you will  find inspiration wherever you look.
In addition to the wealth of libraries, theatres and galleries, you are never far away from a recognisable landmark, for example,  The Shard, the Gherkin, London Bridge, The Tower of London, Big Ben, Westminster Abbey, St Paul's Cathedral, Houses of Parliament and many more.
Ravensbourne University London resides in London’s creative Design District, just a stone’s throw away (literally) from the modern dome shaped structure The O2.
The interiors degree length is three years if you study at Ravensbourne University London, which is the same duration as most BA Honours degree courses in the UK.
This course will open the door to a range of career possibilities across new built environments and the rejuvenation and repurposing of existing buildings.
Interior architecture graduates often go on to design the rehabilitation and extension of existing buildings, or the creation of new built environments.
Students can find themselves working in fields such as architectural and urban consultancy, workplace design, housing research, retail planning and community development.
Students will build skills in communication and representation, construction and dual use environment.
Alongside this, they will begin to think about their own design and angles on problems of the built environment.
We encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research.
Students will gain greater understanding of urban history and theory, urban design, and design for commercial and retail environments, as well as rehabilitation.
This will allow them to enhance their practice and develop their approach to their design work.
We set briefs that encourage students to collaborate with others and create work as part of a design team.
Students will bring their learning together in a final negotiated major project, where they will investigate and make architectural design decisions.
Alongside this, they will carry out a negotiated project in the form of a live brief.
Students will leave with a portfolio that shows their skills in areas in entry-level architecture.
Please note: direct entry into year 3 is not available for this course.
Students can find themselves working in fields such as:
Junior Architect at Oppenheim Architecture in Basel, Switzerland
Junior 3D Designer at global brand and retail company, FITCH
Completing an internship as a Junior Architect in Paris

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-urban-landscape-architecture:
aspiring architects and urban designers who wish to create structures and spaces that meet social, economic and ecological needs.
Our urban landscape architecture degree will enable you to combine creativity, curiosity and technical skill to explore how we reimagine the natural and built environment.
With access to state-of-the-art facilities and expert teaching, you will develop planning and architectural design skills to plan urban landscapes and understand how environments can shape our mood and behaviours.
Explore more of Aliyah's work
Students were asked by the Southwark community to design and build a garden for people affected by knife crime.
Urban landscapes are changing dramatically.
Cities worldwide are implementing plans to maintain the vitality of metropolitan areas and make them attractive and sustainable to residents, business and tourism.
Here lies your enthralling challenge.
If you study this degree in urban landscape architecture, you will be given a diverse education across urban planning and landscape architecture – from cityscapes to coastlines.
As Ravensbourne University London has excellent links to industry, we place great emphasis on teaching you the tricks of the trade that will truly prepare you for the professional environment.
In studying this innovative combination of architecture and urban planning, you will consider how people use space across a diverse range of urban environments.
You will examine the key challenges facing the industry and contemplate the solutions presented by some of the greatest architects and urban designers in the field.
You will develop your cityscape architecture and planning skills and learn how to balance national trends, regional characteristics and local traditions.
By the end of this urban landscape architecture course in London, you will have the know-how to create structures and spaces that meet a multitude of social, economic and ecological needs.
Throughout your undergraduate studies, you will build up a portfolio of work which showcases the breadth of your urban landscape architecture design skills.
You will investigate the complexity of contemporary urban aspects, design innovation, and advance conversations around how we build and inhabit cities in the 21st century.
Graduates jump into employment across a multitude of areas, including landscape design, management, planning, community development and urban design consultancy.
Working in private practice or government offices, many are helping to create thriving communities and sustainable places in industries such as: film and TV, leisure and games design.
Is it time you laid the foundations for your exciting urban landscape architecture career?
At Ravensbourne students and staff are always willing to help you out and the prototyping facilities are brilliant.
The open plan building encourages cross-collaboration and is designed to let in maximum natural light, so it creates a great working environment
”
Aliyah Chaumoo , current student, BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture
Key study themes for this BA hons degree in urban landscape architecture include:
In Level 4 (year one) students will be introduced to the different aspects of built environment study, the design process and the underpinning skills and theory.
The first two terms of this year of study comprises a largely shared curriculum across BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures (IDEAs), BA (Hons) Architecture, and BA (Hons) Urban Landscape Architecture.
In the third term a specialist Landscape Unit is offered.
We also encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research.
The second year of the course, (Level 5) shifts towards interpretation of knowledge gained and the application of the skills acquired in Level 4 in the creative process and explores the subject specialisms in more depth.
All Design Studio units are specialist units for Urban Landscape, while History and Theory units are shared with other courses.
We also set briefs that encourage students to collaborate together and create work as part of a design team.
Students will bring their learning together in a final major design project, where they will investigate and make urban landscape design decisions.
We also ask students to show their contextual studies research and thinking in a long form dissertation.
Students will leave with a portfolio that shows their skills in addressing the opportunities and challenges raised through increasingly dense populations and high competition for resources.
Graduates jump into employment across a multitude of areas including: landscape design, management, planning, community development and urban design consultancy.
Working in private practice or government offices, many are helping to create thriving communities and sustainable places in industries such as: film and TV, leisure and games design.
Study urban landscape architecture design in London – in an award-winning building
I always enjoy coming to (Ravensbourne's student showcase) The Degree Show, at their state-of-the-art RIBA award-winning building.
It's a real gem for anyone who wants to talent spot and see what the future holds.”
Alan Phillips , Alan Phillips Architects

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/architecture-and-interiors-degrees/ba-hons-architecture-integrated-foundation:
those who wish to pursue a career in architecture, but don’t yet have the requirements needed to progress on to undergraduate study.
If you have an interest in architecture, this then course could be for you.
The course will enhance both your academic and technical skills in architecture and provide you with the opportunity to pursue a career as a practicing architect.
You will be encouraged to discover your own pathway in the architecture and spatial design sector.
For this reason, there are a series of modules that are shared and taught by professionals with expertise in the different areas.
During this Year 0 course, you will look at the principles of architecture and spatial design.
You'll  learn to work autonomously and build the confidence to progress on to the undergraduate course of your choice.
You will be given invaluable insights into the industry and will be encouraged to work collaboratively with students in an environment that mimics industry.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore the functional, expressive and social impact of new construction technology and explore the way in which the environment can influence society, culture and the economy.
By the end of the course, you will have developed a clear identity to your work and gained in-depth insight into the interactions between people, activities and places.
This integrated foundation year course is part of a 4-year degree that allows you to progress on to the corresponding undergraduate programmes, which are currently validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), providing exemption for RIBA Part 1 examination.
The course focuses around three themes:
Encompassing regenerative design, consideration of the environmental, human and ecological impacts of materials and construction, and recognition of the need to design for a changing climate and in ways that mitigate harm and promote care.
Consciously challenging projects in relation to the social impacts they carry and the positive change they can bring.
Building an understanding of our individual power and responsibility to be a force for good, while taking care of our own community of learners, educators and collaborators.
We believe the future of cities requires designers who have a breadth of understanding across scales and who can interweave a range of ideas and interests in collaboration and co-creation with other disciplines.
Our courses, students and educators share common ground across the spatial and built environment, finding richness in the cross-pollination between their own specialisms.
You will concentrate on the principles of good practice within studio, context in architecture and design and skills.
This will be underpinned by relevant study skill support necessary to provide confident application of ideas and outcomes.
You will broaden your subject knowledge and put into practice the skills leant within a substantial design project.
You will also build awareness of other disciplines across Ravensbourne as well as develop a personally directed portfolio of images.
This portfolio will address the courses’ aims and provide you with the necessary work to continue on to undergraduate study.
Following progression to the BA (Hons) Architecture course, students will be provided with multi-disciplinary knowledge and vital transferable skills across the following strands of architecture:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/architecture-and-interiors-degrees/ba-hons-urban-landscape-architecture:
If you have an interest in architecture and spatial design, this then course could be for you.
You'll  learn to work autonomously and build the confidence to progress on to the undergraduate course that you choose.
Consciously challenging our projects in relation to the social impacts they carry and the positive change they can bring.
This portfolio of will address the courses’ aims and provide you with the necessary work to continue on to undergraduate study.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/architecture-and-interiors-degrees/ba-hons-interior-design-environment:
those who wish to pursue a career in architecture or spatial design, but don’t yet have the requirements needed to progress on to undergraduate study.
If you have a broad interest in architecture and spatial design, this then course could be for you.
The course will speed up both your academic and technical skills in architecture and provide you with the opportunity to pursue a career as a practicing architect.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management:
Find information on fees in The Specifics section.
If you want to learn what is needed to set up as an entrepreneur and make your own mark in the world of business, then this Business Management degree is for you.
Refine your skills in management, strategy, and research to support your journey into the ever-evolving business landscape.
Credit: Image by AndrewLozovyi
aspiring business practitioners who wish to upskill in business, management and modern, global operating models
This Business Management degree in London, UK, will see you delve into innovative methods to efficiently manage a business of any size and scope – from managing your own start-up business to working in a multinational organisation.
What can this course do for me?
As the curriculum revolves around contemporary business practices, you will be inspired by professional practitioners alongside your teaching team to ensure that you are primed and ready for postgraduate study or employment.
In your individual units, you will develop the creative and practical skills needed to create robust business plans and marketing strategies.
You will enhance your entrepreneurial skills by preparing financial statements, evaluate data, and create innovative pitches to win new business.
As part of your second year, you will have the opportunity to work with industry for live professional project briefs, or alternatively, you can complete a professional placement in a sector of your choice.
In your final year, you will conduct professional strategic research which enhances and supports your final major project.
Operations
Business finance
Strategy & management
Global business practice
Identifying solutions to business problems
Responsible business practice
Career coaching.
You will be introduced to modules in operations and management, as well as business finance, to enable you to gain a deeper understanding of the principles of business practice at an introductory level.
You will learn how strategy is incorporated at management level, to support the business and functional operations of an organisation.
In year 2, you will demonstrate an ability to identify, critically evaluate and apply theories of global business practice.
You will also have the opportunity to complete a work-based learning opportunity or professional project.
In your final year, you will build on what you have learnt in year 1 and year 2 and apply your knowledge to find solutions to real world business problems.
The accumulation of learning with such a rich understanding of business research will enable you to produce an expert final project.
You will develop both the hard and soft skills that employers value by studying in a collaborative environment and sharing modules with students across different courses.
This collaborative approach will enable you to explore functions of business enterprise and develop an understanding of how organisations evolve.
This will further support you in building a network for future sustainable growth after graduation.
Application information for this course will be made available shortly.
In the meantime, you can register your interest and you’ll be the first to hear once more information is available.
Tuition fees for 2024/25: UK: £9,250 per year Overseas: £17,000 per year Tuition fees for 2025/26: UK: £9,535 per year Overseas: £17,000 per year
The Department of Business and Computing also have a partnership with Level 39 where students can benefit from work-based learning opportunities, guest speakers and events.
The course is uniquely tailored for students wishing to pursue a career in:
Explore the range of industry-standard facilities we have here at Ravensbourne.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-foundation-year:
aspiring business practitioners who wish to gain skills in business, management and modern global operating models.
If you have an interest in business and business management, then this course is ideal.
Our foundation year in business management will help you assess your strengths and confirm your specialist area of interest.
Throughout the first year of this four year course, you will develop the skills and confidence to be able to progress on to our BSc Business Management course.
Enhance your entrepreneurial skills by preparing financial statements, evaluating data and creating innovative pitches to win new business
Learn to communicate visually, verbally and creatively through multiple forms of digital creative media
Assessment methods such as pitches and presentations will help prepare you for industry
You will be encouraged to bring your own unique entrepreneurial ideas to the course and create business proposals for development.
If you want to explore what is required to set up as an entrepreneur or make your own distinct mark in the world of business, then this Business Management foundation course is for you.
This foundation course in London, UK will enable you to build a solid foundation in business management which can then be applied to the creative industries.
You will explore the principles of business enterprise and develop an understanding of how organisations evolve for future sustainable growth, and how you can be a part of that.
While the course is rooted in theory, it will incorporate creative thinking and will develop your verbal and presentation skills, too.
This course will introduce students to all the fundamental principles of academic practice.
You develop the range of skills needed in the foundation of business and management with a particular focus on academic writing, innovative thinking, communication skills and research practice.
The modules of this course are designed to enable students to build their business skills and acumen incrementally.
Students will engage in research, develop creative and innovative skills, business and management knowledge and gain the ability to evaluate data, understand financial statements, process information and produce solutions to creative briefs.
By Year 2 you will be able to demonstrate an ability to identify, critically evaluate and apply theories of global business practice using your creativity in a practical context.
The course will be supported by a wide range of industry links and field trips, helping students to develop a deep understanding of business operations.
In your final year you will build on your previous years of learning and utilise your business management acumen to identify solutions to both real world and defined business events and problems.
The sum of your learning experience and rich understanding of business will enable you to produce a final business and management implementation project.
The course is uniquely tailored for students wishing to pursue a career in:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-international-year-one:
If you are an international student interested in business and business management, then this course is ideal for you.
Business Management with International Year One provides an intensive combination of first year business modules with English language skills.
It’s the perfect pathway for international students who want to join the popular Business Management degree at Ravensbourne but do not meet the requirements for direct entry.
Aspiring international business practitioners who wish to upskill in business, management and modern, global operating models.
You will study a combination of subject-specific business modules alongside academic business skills modules that will focus on teaching you the English language, study skills, employability and academic skills necessary to successfully pass the course.
Throughout the first year of this three-year course, you will receive comprehensive additional support to develop your English language skills and confidence.
Unlike other courses, the international year one model will enable you to be fully integrated into the Business Management course and study alongside other students on the course.
If you want to explore what is required to set up as an entrepreneur or make your own distinct mark in the world of business, then this Business Management with International Year One course is for you.
Alongside English for Academic purposes modules, you will be introduced to modules in operations and management, as well as business finance, to enable you to gain a deeper understanding of the principles of business practice at an introductory level.
You will learn how strategy is incorporated at management level, to support the business and functional operations of an organisation.
You will also have the opportunity to complete a work-based learning opportunity or professional project.
In your final year, you will build on what you have learnt in year 1 and year 2 and apply your knowledge to find solutions to real world business problems.
The accumulation of learning with such a rich understanding of business research will enable you to produce an expert final project.
At Ravensbourne we accept a wide range of international qualifications for entry onto our courses, whilst also considering the context in which they were achieved.
For this course, we would usually require a GCSE Grade 4 or above in English in addition to any of the below:
In addition to the above, applicants must meet the following English language requirements:
This course is specifically intended for overseas students who are not native English speakers.
Home students and native English speakers are welcome to apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management as an alternative.
As an international applicant you will need to apply directly to Ravensbourne via our Online Applicant Portal .
Simply select and click your chosen start date via the 'Apply now' drop down at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate page inside the portal.
You will be part of a diverse community of progressive thinkers, working collaboratively to explore new professional practices.
For international students starting this course in 2025/26, we will offer a scholarship of £6,000 for the first year of studies which will be automatically applied to your offer.
Please note, this scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with any other scholarships or discounts offered at Ravensbourne, including the early payment discount.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-fashion:
students that want to be introduced into the world of the business and management, with a particular focus on fashion in a global context.
In this theory-based business management course in London, you will learn core business practice and refine your skills in management, strategy and research.
Gain an in-depth understanding of the fashion industry and explore how businesses innovate and embrace digital practices.
Learn everything you need to set up as a successful entrepreneur or work in global business.
On this industry-focused course, you will be set live project briefs and have the chance to undertake work-based learning opportunities with leading and emerging fashion brands.
While this course is academic and theory based, you will also develop your creative thinking and learn to confidentially express your ideas both verbally and visually.
The course is structured to enable you to gradually build your business skills and confidence.
You will gain core business and management knowledge and learn to understand financial statements, process information and produce meaningful solutions to your creative briefs.
A range of field trips will help you to gain a better understanding of key aspects of fashion business operations.
You will develop both the hard and soft skills valued by employers by studying in a co-creative environment and working collaboratively with students across related courses.
The accumulation of learning will enable you to produce a final business and management implementation project in your final year.
Marketing reports
Business plans
Market research reports
Shop reports
Financial statements
Strategy and leadership written proposal
E-commerce reports
Digital marketing
Online/social media presentation
Visual marketing and advertising campaigns
Pitch/presentation skills
Case Studies
Brand management reports
In year one you will build skills in operations, management and business finance.
This will enable you to gain a deeper understanding of the principles of business practice at an introductory level.
You will learn how strategy is incorporated at management level to support the business and functional operations of an organisation.
In year two, you will be able to demonstrate an ability to identify, critically evaluate and apply theories of global business practice.
You will be able to apply your creativity in a practical context through modules in digital business and complete an industry placement or professional project.
In your final year, you will build on everything you’ve learnt in years 1 and 2 and move to a more independent learning mode.
This will develop your own confidence in preparation for graduation and your future career path.
With the skills and knowledge you’ve accumulated throughout your course, you will be able to confidently demonstrate an ability to identify, critically evaluate and apply theories of global business practice.
This course is uniquely tailored for students wishing to pursue a career in business-startup, marketing, digital, branding, e-commerce, buying, business analyst, HR and finance.
You can also chat to our students .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-business-management-fashion-integrated-foundation-year:
This is the Year 0 option, for those who wish to build up foundational knowledge prior to entering an undergraduate degree.
This course is a preparatory year as part of a four-year BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion degree and is aimed at students who require more time to develop their portfolio and skillset prior to year one of undergraduate study.
In this four year BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion Year 0 course in London, you will learn core business practice and refine your skills in management, strategy and research.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of the fashion industry and explore how businesses innovate and embrace digital practices.
You will be set live project briefs and have the chance to undertake work-based learning opportunities with leading and emerging fashion brands.
Business Management with Fashion Year 0 is not a standalone course; it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
When you successfully complete your preparatory year, you will be able to progress smoothly into the first year of our BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion course in London.
Year 0 course specification – coming soon
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion course specification – coming soon
Year 0 is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BSc (Hons) Business Management with Fashion course.
It is an ideal opportunity for you to further develop your portfolio skills ahead of degree studies.
This course is uniquely tailored for students wishing to pursue a career in business-startup, marketing, digital, branding, e-commerce, buying, business analysis, HR and finance.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-digital-marketing:
commercially minded digital creatives who wish to harness online platforms to deliver effective digital marketing campaigns.
When you graduate with a digital marketing degree from Ravensbourne University London, you will learn to leverage digital marketing tools to design and deliver outstanding digital marketing strategies across the campaign lifecycle.
You will be able to reach into the hearts and minds of your audience and cater to their wants and needs in the digital space.
Achieve, evaluate and present successful business outcomes and develop both a creative and technical skillset.
Meet Samantha, course leader for our BA (Hons) Digital Marketing degree programme and find out about the benefits of studying on this course.
It is an exciting time to work in digital marketing as it evolves so quickly, and digital marketing professionals are needed now more than ever.”
Samantha Sandilands , Course leader
With access to our state-of-the-art facilities, this digital marketing course will give you an overview of the digital technology landscape and the tools used to connect businesses with new and current customers
It will thoroughly prepare you for industry by giving you an overview of the digital landscape and the strategic marketing principles used today.
You will be delivered an exciting blend of real-life experience underpinned by academic rigour to propel you in your future professional career, whether you envisage yourself working for an agency, in-house, freelance or setting up your own digital marketing business.
This digital marketing course looks at how digital technology can be used to deliver successful marketing campaigns by knowing, targeting and delivering to your audience.
You will learn to plan and execute engaging omnichannel campaigns across various digital platforms, such as search engines, social media and email.
During your studies, you’ll have the opportunity to focus on digital marketing concepts and techniques and gain an understanding of the technologies that underpin them.
You’ll develop the knowledge, creative and technical skills to design, deliver and evaluate digital marketing strategies and campaigns from end to end – from viral videos to personalised web content.
On this course you will learn about the latest digital marketing techniques, alongside the practical skills that employers are looking for.
We will give you the tools and knowledge you need to succeed in this growing sector.”
There are a host of jobs and roles for digital marketing graduates.
Digital technology has transformed the marketing landscape, which means businesses are always on the lookout for talent to help them make the best use of existing and emerging platforms.
Digital marketing degree jobs :
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England, language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international section.
Learn more : Ravenbourne University London's culture and community

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-digital-marketing-foundation-year:
commercially minded digital creatives who wish to harness online platforms to deliver effective digital marketing campaigns.
This is a 4-year degree which includes a preparatory first year as part of the BSc Digital Marketing course.
This 4-year option will suit you if you want more time to develop your skill set before starting year one of your undergraduate degree or if you do not fulfil the entry requirements of the 3-year course.
Your tutors will nurture your creative potential while you develop the skills you need to confidently enter undergraduate study.
You will develop communication, professional and entrepreneurial skills alongside research practice and ways of thinking that are essential to your continued success.
Digital Marketing (with Foundation Year) is not a standalone course: it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
Focus on digital marketing concepts and techniques and gain an understanding of the technologies that underpin them
Create engaging and interactive multi-channel digital marketing campaigns
Set yourself up for agency, in-house or self-employment
Design, deliver and evaluate strategies and campaigns from end to end.
Digital marketing basics
Marketing data analysis
Consumer behaviour
Web design
Photography and video
Digital creation
Social media marketing.
Downloadable course specification Year 0
Downloadable course specification BA (Hons) Digital Marketing
The Foundation year is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing .
You will be introduced to all the fundamental principles of academic rigour through writing skills for research.
Year 1 will introduce students to modules that support collaborative experimental practice, entrepreneurship and enterprise, helping to develop and showcase interdisciplinary working methods, interaction and innovation.
You will have the opportunity to engage with industry professionals to further support and drive enterprise and employability throughout your degree experience.
Modules may inclue*:
In your 2nd year you will apply your knowledge of the subject area, collaborate and develop your skillsets and industry knowledge by undertaking a work-based learning opportunity.
Learning at this stage will become largely self-directed to help you the hone the knowledge and skills you have developed in your previous years of study.
You will be expected to take on a professional attitudes to time and project management to complete the final year of your studies.
Simply select and click your chosen start date and mode via the 'Apply now' dropdown at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate page inside the UCAS portal.
The entry requirements for this course is found above.
You will also need the course UCAS code, which is located in the course overview module near the top of this page.
The UCAS website will guide you through the process, which is simple and easy to complete.
You can also apply through your school or college using the UCAS Apply system.
There are a host of jobs for digital marketing graduates.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bsc-hons-business-computing:
†Fees subject to change for 2026/27.
s tudents wishing to develop profound computing knowledge alongside business acumen.
If you’re aspiring to make a splash in a world driven by technology and innovation, this course is for you.
Harnessing Ravensbourne’s uniquely creative and innovative environment, this course encourages interdisciplinary collaboration and a user-focused approach to technology solutions.
Graduates will emerge as industry-ready professionals, poised to enter a career in information technology consultancy, business analysis, software development, and more.*
* Source: Course is subject to validation and is therefore subject to change
The BSc (Hons) Business Computing course provides a comprehensive blend of computing knowledge and develops business acumen, preparing students to thrive in a world driven by technology and innovation.
The course is designed to develop a strong foundation in software design, application development, cyber security and cloud computing, alongside key business skills such as consultancy operations management, and data analytics.
You will engage in hands-on learning through a variety of modules spanning topics such as full stack application design, web design and programming, business intelligence and entrepreneurship.
These modules will equip you with the technical expertise and practical problem-solving skills needed to address real-world challenges.
This programme is uniquely positioned within Ravensbourne's creative and innovative environment, encouraging interdisciplinary collaboration and a user-focused approach to technology solutions.
Graduates will be well-prepared for careers in IT consultancy, business analysis, software development, and more, with the skills to bridge the gap between technical teams and business stakeholders.
Year 1 of the course will see students engaging with designing and developing software, as well as the fundamentals of business and project management.
*Subject to validation and therefore subject to change.
Year 2 of this course will build on the foundations developed in the first year, helping students expand their knowledge and expertise of both business and computing.
The final year further develops the students’ business and technological acumen, and will culminate in a large final project, designed to allow students to demonstrate their learnings from the three-year programme.
The course will be assessed through formative, summative, practical, peer and reflective assessment.
Formative assessments, such as quizzes and group discussions, are designed to provide ongoing feedback and support learning throughout the course.
Summative assessments will take place at the end of key modules and include presentations and project reports.
Practical assessments evaluate students’ ability to apply theoretical knowledge, and may include case studies or design projects.
Peer assessments help to promote self-reflection and critical thinking, helping students build on their analytical and evaluative skills.
Reflective assessments such as journals encourage personal growth and awareness of learning processes.
Graduates from this course can enter roles including, but not limited to, business analyst, information technology consultant, systems developer, e-commerce specialist or data analyst.
Potential future sectors that graduates may enter include digital marketing, software systems management e-commerce and creative enterprise.
They may also continue onto further study through MSc programmes in a business or technology field.
For this course, we would usually require a GCSE Grade 4 or above in English  and Maths in addition to any of the below;

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-computer-science:
Do you want a highly practical computer science education that provides you with the cutting-edge technical skills to prepare you for the jobs of tomorrow?
If so, then this is the degree programme for you.
tech-savvy individuals eager to learn the latest cutting-edge skills in computer science.
Ravensbourne has an established international reputation for innovation at the intersection of design and digital media.
The BSc Computer Science programme capitalises on and consolidates these past successes, offering you a computer science education that nurtures your ability to innovate, while developing your computer science skills.
On this course, you will learn about the latest and emerging trends in the computing environment and develop the skills to apply them to real-world problems.
By the end of the course, you’ll graduate as a technically competent, innovative problem-solver with a diverse skill-set that meets the demands of the global economy.
Course specification
In your first year you will develop the fundamentals, concepts, principles, and theories of Computer Science.
You will  learn to programme in a range of languages to solve common computer science problems.
You will gain an understanding of different data and information types and appropriate processing and management techniques.
Demonstrate basic creative problem-solving skills as applied through Computer Science.
Understand issues relating to legal, ethical and health and safety-based concerns.
Locate Computer Science within a wider social and professional context.
Demonstrate an understanding of the link between theory and practice.
During your 2nd year you will demonstrate a critical understanding and knowledge of principles and techniques of Computer Science.
You will be able to analyse, design, develop and evaluate a range of projects that utilise core concepts of Computer Science.
You will also apply these principles to create a range of software and/or hardware entities.
The course will help you to demonstrate a knowledge of how Computer Science fits within a broader social, political and/or professional context.
You may work independently as well as work effectively as part of a team on various projects.
By Year 3, you will be able to demonstrate a detailed subject knowledge and professional competence in analysis, design and development of appropriate computational solutions.
You will apply your high level project management skills, technical knowledge and creative techniques to the production of a final Computer Science project & report.
Tuition fees for 2024/25:
Tuition fees for 2025/26:
There are a large number of different careers that can be explored with a degree in computer science.
These include but are not limited to:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-creative-computing:
digitally-savvy creatives who wish to develop a 360-degree skillset in computing and digital technologies.
Please note that this course is not recruiting for September 2025.
Please take a look at our other courses and check back for updates on this page for 2026 entry.
The BSc (Hons) Creative Computing degree is a flexible, innovative course that will enable you to explore how computing and digital technologies can enhance creativity.
This unique course will give you both the creative and technical skills required to succeed in industry.
Combine creative flair with a technical grounding on this immersive creative computing degree course in London.
With access to state-of-the-art computing tools, you will utilise emerging technologies and learn about interactive systems, web and mobile technologies, digital art and multimedia streaming.
The course’s raison d'être has been shaped by industry demands.
The boundary between digital and creative roles is blurring all the time, and few graduates have the combination of skills employers are looking for.
As such, our creative computing course arms students with a portfolio of artistic, design and technical skills through an exciting and flexible programme.
You will explore how computing and digital technologies can enhance creativity and develop the skills and knowledge to become a creative professional within the media and arts industries.
The course focuses on two distinct pathways to give you an understanding of computing and digital technologies across the spectrum.
During your first year, you’ll gain a solid grounding in technology and focus on its application in creative contexts, as well as skills in designing computer applications, developing your technological creativity and investigating the process of new media development using programming languages.
In years two and three, you’ll have the opportunity to either concentrate on the artistic aspects of the subject or take a more scientific approach.
The course can be shaped to meet your own personal passions.
This highly versatile degree prepares you for a range of careers within the computing and digital technologies sector.
Are you ready to become a creative-techie hybrid?
It’s been a really positive experience for me.
Even though we did have lockdown to deal with, we still had access to an incredible pool of knowledge.
There is a real creative and fun element to the course.
We’ve looked at everything from augmented reality and machine learning to JavaScript and animation.
Olawale Okunrinboye , current student, BSc (Hons) Creative Computing
Students will learn through a combination of practical workshops and class-based and virtual learning.
They will be assessed through projects and presentations which will require students to demonstrate working methods, and practical outcomes aligned to Creative Computing.
In Year 2, students will be encourage to collaborate with students on other courses, enabling them to develop team working skills and understand inter-disciplinary working methods.
The modules in Year 2, will inform future progress around portfolio creation and final project and enable students to make career choices around their chosen industry discipline.
At the end of Semester 2, students will also have the opportunity to undertake a wok-based learning experience within industry.
Skills acquired in Year 1 and 2 will be developed and perfected in Year 3 through lectures, seminars, workshops, self-directed study and individual tutorials.
A large proportion of project-based work will be initiated and developed by students themselves, with a view to mastering skills particular to their interests within the discipline.
Students will be encouraged to dive deeper into their particular interests through individual tutorials and programmes of study initiated by the students themselves using online and physical resources.
Students will be offered increased responsibility for their own learning undertaking a major project.
Students are expected to take on professional attitudes to time and project management, quality assurance, testing, and deployment.
Other than applying for normal computing roles such as a programmer or network administrator, this course will prepare students for more specialised roles such as:
This course is a blend of computing and art, and is the perfect place to learn the uses of computing technologies in creative ways.
Dr Ajaz Ali , Course leader, Digital Technologies

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-cyber-security:
aspiring digital security analysts and engineers who wish to scrutinise and find solutions to security issues and cyber crime.
Become a cyber crime-fighter with this new, forward-thinking degree in London.
Delivered in collaboration with Amazon Web Services (AWS), the course explores a range of technologies utilised in cyber security, including computer forensics, networking and operating systems, secure programming and ethical hacking.
Meet Dinesh, course leader for our BSc (Hons) Cyber Security degree programme and find out about the benefits of of studying on this course.
In collaboration with Amazon Web Services and the AWS-Educate programme
Build your knowledge of cyber security tools and practices
Address one of the most significant global issues of today
Help protect our society, economy, national security and privacy
Successfully evaluate cyber security issues, recognise best practices and analyse possible solutions to overcoming cyber threats.
Criminal attacks on data have become an everyday concern.
With more and more personal details being stored on computers, laptops, phones and online, protecting ourselves, our businesses and customers through cyber security has never been more important.
This unique cyber security degree, developed in partnership with AWS Educate and aligned with NCSC CyBoK 1.0, will jumpstart your career in cyber security.
In leaving Ravensbourne University London, you will be able to successfully evaluate cyber security issues, recognise best practices and analyse possible solutions to overcoming cyber threats.
This cloud computing degree combines theory and practice with a strong technical focus.
With unprecedented demand for cyber security expertise to protect our society, economy, national security and critical infrastructure, this course is designed to meet the industry’s need for highly qualified graduates.
Through lectures, tutorials, seminars and laboratory sessions, your expert tutors will teach you to use the latest generation of cyber security tools and techniques.
You will evaluate key issues, extract and analyse digital evidence from computer systems and networks, recognise best practices, construct robust software and evaluate possible solutions to negate potential threats.
This course covers six key areas of cyber security:
Databases
Software development and management
Cyber security
Artificial intelligence and machine learning
Ethics and regulations.
In Year 1 students will be introduced to the Professional Life Practice modules that are embedded in each undergraduate learning level.
These modules specifically support collaborative experimental practice, entrepreneurship, and enterprise, helping to catalyse, develop and showcase interdisciplinary working methods interaction and innovation.
The modules will also facilitate opportunities to integrate with industry partners in order to establish professional currency at the start of the undergraduate journey, and to drive enterprise and employability through the degree experience.
Skills acquired in Year 2 are developed further through a combination of workshops, lectures, seminars, group exercises, self-directed study, as well as individual or group tutorials.
Students will test their developing disciplinary knowledge in collaborative scenarios with the opportunity to take part in the Professional Life Practice Modules, and Work Based Learning Modules, offering collaborative and industry aligned opportunities both within Ravensbourne and within industry,
At the end of Semester 2, students will have the opportunity to undertake a work-based learning experience.
The Work Based Learning module will offer students the ability to engage with industry-led experience supporting industry interactions, entrepreneurship and employability skills.
Skills acquired in Year 1 and Year 2 will be developed and perfected in Year 3 through lectures, seminars, workshops, self-directed study and individual tutorials.
Students are expected to take on professional attitudes to time and project management.
Visiting lecturers may be invited to deliver lectures and/or practical sessions related to their area of work and students will develop an outward facing portfolio to aid graduate progression.
Graduates can progress into careers in industry, government and law enforcement.
Job areas include:
On this course, you'll get to enjoy ethical hacking, computer networks and cyber security, and empower yourself with a strategic defence against cyber attacks.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/bsc-hons-information-technology-management:
a nyone looking to develop a keen understanding of computing and management, and helping businesses achieve their strategic goals.
If you want to be a leader in digital technology and innovation, this course is for you.
This course encourages innovative problem-solving and strategic thinking, setting it apart from traditional  information technology management programmes.
Your learning will span areas such as cybersecurity, cloud computing and emerging technology, meaning you’ll not only graduate equipped to be a leader in digital technology and innovation, but as a navigator in industries undergoing rapid transformation.*
The BSc (Hons) Information Technology Management course is designed to produce future leaders in technology and innovation, with a focus on aligning information technology systems and strategies with business objectives.
The curriculum combines technical knowledge in areas such as cybersecurity, cloud computing, and emerging technologies with essential management and leadership skills.
Modules will instil knowledge of operations, project and data management, business intelligence and innovation through emerging technologies.
These will provide students with the tools to manage complex digital projects, drive digital transformation, and ensure organisational success in a technology-driven world.
This unique approach prepares graduates to apply computing knowledge across diverse industries, positioning them as leaders at the intersection of technology and creativity.
Delivered within Ravensbourne’s dynamic and creative ecosystem, the course encourages innovative problem-solving and strategic thinking.
Graduates will be equipped for roles such as information technology manager, systems analyst, or digital transformation leader, ready to navigate and lead in industries undergoing rapid technological change.
Year 1 will develop the fundamentals of designing and operating computer systems for businesses and organisations.
Modules in Year 2 will build upon the computational principles established in the first year, focusing in on different ways of learning and working.
The final year of the course will consolidate the programme’s learning through a longer project and sophisticated modules with real-world applications.
Graduates from this course will be suited for positions including, but not limited to, information technology support manager, network administrator, digital project manager, cloud systems manager or business intelligence analysist.
Potential industry destinations for these graduates range from information and digital technology services to media and entertainment technology management.
You may also progress onto future study through MSc programmes at Ravensbourne.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bsc-hons-broadcast-engineering:
future television broadcast engineers who wish to upskill in contemporary streaming and cloud computing solutions.
This is a reputable and unique broadcasting degree that will allow you to master the art of modern technical production.
Including both pre-recorded and live events and covering a wide variety of broadcasting methods, You will gain a deep understanding of the industry and the principles of broadcasting.
Students from Ravensbourne’s Screen School have completed their largest Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) broadcast to date, streaming a production of Macbeth to over 450 schools across the UK, reaching an estimated 50,000 students.
The production marked the seventh year of the collaboration, facilitated by a dedicated team of television and editing and post production students.
From production lead to graphics operator, technical lead and director, students fulfilled a wide range of roles.
Develop the right skillset and professional mindset to work in technical engineering and operations
Gain practical experience in studio and location operations, signal routing and fault finding through the whole audio-visual chain
Ideal for future broadcast engineers and TV broadcast crew
My favourite moment at Ravensbourne so far was our live television show day.
It felt like we were all working on a real television show – it was all filmed live and we only had one shot at it.
We were planning it for weeks in advance and it all came together so well.”
Tyler Evans , current student
Digital opened the door to new ways of consuming streamed and on-demand content, including a multiverse of new channels.
Broadcast now spans technologies ranging from radio wave transmission to internet-based streaming, virtual live production and more.
There’s a wealth of opportunity for you to explore and conquer.
We have been teaching television and broadcasting courses at Ravensbourne University London for nearly 40 years, which makes this one of the most respected courses in the field.
This broadcasting degree enables you to develop the right skillset and professional mindset to work in technical engineering and operations within the sectors of live studio and outside broadcasting and streamed content.
You will explore both traditional areas such as digital and satellite transmission, streaming and live events, and evolving technologies such as virtual production, advances in video and audio (like UHD and Dolby), the emergence of AI and other developments in technology.
These topics are placed within industry standards so that you leave us ready to apply your learning to the workplace.
The academic framework is aligned to industry standards that govern broadcast regulations, grounding your learning in the professional world.
You will gain practical experience in studio and location operations, signal routing and fault finding through the whole audio-visual chain.
This diverse TV broadcasting course in London covers audio, video, broadcast, streaming, electronics, computing, infrastructure, systems and emerging technologies.
When you graduate with a BSc Hons degree in broadcast engineering, you will have developed first-class engineering skills gained through real-world technical and creative projects.
Engineering students lead on the technical build, transmission and troubleshooting, and may take on key operational roles in camera and sound if required.
The course is taught through a mix of practice and theory-based learning that includes lectures, workshops, seminars, projects and self-directed study.
Led by industry experts, you will develop an understanding of technical roles within television, technologies used in television and broadcasting, and fundamental principles of broadcast engineering.
We pride ourselves on our outstanding industry connections, which are designed to give you a truly immersive and professional experience, smoothening your entry into industry.
Previous students have live streamed projects with The Royal Shakespeare Company’s education arm, along with other prestigious partners.
We're also members of Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) Student Chapter, which exposes staff and students to a range of opportunities.
In fact, no other provider of TV broadcasting degrees can match the level of creative and technical freedom we give you to explore emerging technologies in collaboration with industry practitioners.
Your career’s in safe hands.
Students learn broadcast industry fundamentals, collaborating with the TV production students.
Alongside learning the fundamentals of electronics and engineering, students are have specialist maths teaching to refresh and extend their maths ability in preparation for the coming years.
Students will apply the skills and techniques gained in the first year and experiment creatively on increasingly challenging projects.
They will learn the art of science and colour, live event broadcasting, computing in relation to broadcasting, and event technology.
In the final year, students deliver a dissertation based on an area of interest.
Students may extend this or choose another topic to develop for their major engineering project, which may be a prototype for a piece of equipment, or a piece of broadcast engineering software for example.
Students also study emerging technologies and standards in their final year, to prepare them for future industry developments.
We still think exams are important and look forward to hearing about your successes, but we place just as much importance on the work you will share with us as part of our interview process.
Students should ideally have a background in technology, science, maths, technical drawing/ design or media.
Experience in live events or theatre is also valuable.
Applicants do not need to submit a portfolio of work, but they may wish to do so.
This course is likely to appeal to if you are interested in STEM careers but have not thought of broadcast engineering, so you would be asked to show your interest by researching roles and coming to interview prepared with questions about how this course matches your interests.
Ravensbourne students are uniquely placed with opportunities to apply their skills whilst studying with respected industry clients and partners.
On graduation, they will be able to apply for roles within the global television community including:
Technical manager
Vision supervisor
Sound supervisor
Sound or vision guarantee engineer
Broadcast engineer
Systems engineer
Technical operator
Transmission controller
Network operations assistant
MCR operator
Studio technician
Outside broadcasting.
Broadcast engineering students also use our on-site TV studio on collaborative projects with digital production students.
Our broadcast engineering students use a range of emerging technologies such as satellite streaming, multi-platform streaming and cloud computing, alongside more traditional principles

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-digital-television-production:
TV and storytelling enthusiasts who wish to pursue a career in the media, television, broadcast or video production industries.
A leading course provider for 40 years, the digital television production degree will allow you to immerse yourself in the production of studio shows, live events and episodic drama to develop the skills you need for a career in the media and television industries.
Student Charlotte Kavannah discusses her experiences on the BA (Hons) Digital Television Production course.
The Silent Years
Second-year BA (Hons) Digital Television Production students have created a documentary to shed light on the lives of veterans who suffer from Post-traumatic stress disorder.
The documentary has been shared by a leading mental health charity, PTSD Resolution.
Paused is a short film focusing on the themes of femininity, vulnerability and social expectations.
'After a series of related symptoms, 24-year-old Eve begins to think she’s pregnant, only for a doctor to reveal that she is experiencing early menopause.
Despite initial reluctance to address her feelings, the news forces Eve to seek support from those around her and to explore what it truly means to be a woman.'
Credits: Producer: Emma Bolton, Director: Erin Bannister, Director of Photography: Joey Houldsworth, Production Designer: Emma Franklin, Sound: Louise Corley, Assistant Director: Lia Saunders, Script Supervisor: Maisie Lovern, Editor: Scott Percival, Colourist: Jade Mason, Sound Editors: Cam Evans Bruno Diaz de Carballo
This contemporary TV production course in London will prepare you for a broad range of careers in television, broadcast and video production, giving you a hands-on education across all areas of television production.
You will gain experience of producing your own television shows using industry-standard facilities.
You will work on a range of TV genres including drama, documentary, entertainment and factual – both in the studio and on location.
You will learn to broadcast live and create multi-platform television content that embraces emerging technologies.
You will develop TV formats, write scripts, pitch to commissioning editors and present ideas to clients in response to live briefs.
The digital television production degree is led by production and broadcast experts and taught through a mix of practical and theory-based learning.
You will develop a varied skillset that covers all areas of television production and the wider broadcast media.
You will be taught through a blend of practice and theory-based learning, which includes lectures, workshops, seminars, projects and self-directed study.
Be hungry, be willing to start at the bottom, that’s how it goes.
I had a meteoric rise because of what Ravensbourne gave me and I really believe that.”
Toby Gorman , Alumnus, President of Universal Television Alternative Studios at NBC
Students will build basic knowledge in traditional methods of studio broadcasting through the PLP modules (see list below).
Alongside this, they will learn about the television industry in the Moving Image Industries module and how to develop viable scripts / TV format ideas for drama and factual programming in the Storytelling on Screen module.
They will cover studio and location production techniques in a range of genres through the Production Skills & Technologies modules, where they learn the foundations of camera, lighting, sound and editing.
Year 2
Students will apply the production skills and techniques gained in the first year and experiment creatively on increasingly challenging projects and live briefs.
They will develop audience-led approaches to drama, documentary, entertainment, live programmes and outside broadcasts.
At the same time, they will continue to develop their own ideas and entrepreneurial skills as part of the Professional Life Practice cycle, culminating with a work experience.
In the final level, the Final Major Project modules will allow students to build a portfolio of self-initiated work and experiment with ideas and new media solutions that prepare them for professional practice.
Alongside, the final modules of the Professional Life Practice cycle will allow students to deepen their industry research to inform a professional trajectory strategy and put this to practice through a project rather than academic writing.
This contemporary TV production course in London will prepare you for a broad range of careers in television, broadcast and video production.
This could include roles such as:
If we ask you to submit a portfolio, you will need to provide the following :
Jack Mooney , BA (Hons)  Digital Television Production graduate
Multi-Skilled Operator at London Stock Exchange Group
Floor managed for Channel 4 News and ITV News.
Now associate producer at popular shopping channel, QVC
Working as Office Runner on upcoming Netflix series

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-editing-and-post-production:
film and video enthusiasts who wish to hone their editing and storytelling skills in order to thrive in the post production sector.
Ready to make stories come to life through the cutting of sound and picture?
Taught by professional tutors established in industry, this reputable film editing course in London will equip you with everything you need to excel in post production and find rewarding careers within the film industry.
BA (Hons) Editing & Post Production
@watsongrading
Personal Bio: David Watson is an aspiring Colourist.
He became fascinated by the video production at the young age of 7 when he began creating stop-motion animations using toys in his room.
He began studying at Ravensbourne University in 2017 and in his second year started working as a runner at Envy Post Production.
As David progressed, he became more and more fascinated with Colour Grading.
There are three key events in the life of a film: the script, the shoot and the edit.
Editing is where it all comes together; where meaning is created through cutting sound and picture.
This is the decisive moment when a screen story can finally be told.
While editing is at the heart of this film editing and post production course in London, you will develop a diverse skillset across the post production spectrum.
You will build skills in visual effects, colour grading, audio post, screen graphics, shoot and edit and broadcast technology.
You’ll be guided by industry practitioners and guest speakers using a mix of problem-based learning, practical workshops, lectures and masterclasses.
Previous guest speakers to the course have included Mick Audsley (Murder on the Orient Express), Paul Machliss (Baby Driver), and Lisa Gunning (7 Psychopaths).
Over the years, the course has built strong and lasting links with high profile post companies including Avid, Adobe, Apple, Blackmagic Design, Jigsaw24, as well as numerous post houses and production companies.
You will also gain skills in post-production technology and media management, which will provide the technical backbone of your craft.
Throughout your learning journey, you will have access to high quality, professionally shot rushes across all genres from factual to drama, and from promos to news packages.
You will take on live commissions and collaborate with students across other courses.
The location of Ravensbourne on the Greenwich Peninsula is also an important geographical factor, as it sits very close to one of the biggest post-production hubs in the world.
This proximity offers you world-class opportunities for work placements and employment.
Armed with a full toolbox of skills, past graduates have found roles with media powerhouses like the BBC, ITV and Disney, while others have worked in post-production houses editing renowned movies such as Star Wars and Thor.
Without a degree from Ravensbourne I don’t think I would have been able to get a foot in anywhere initially.
The tutors helped so much with learning all the skills in AVID and the craft of editing, which really made a big difference when I started doing it for a living.”
Michael Fendick , Editing and Post Production BA (Hons) graduate
Students will build their knowledge in post-production and broadcast technology.
Alongside this, they will learn about communication, visualisation and the post-production industry.
Students will study the craft of editing, technical workflow and online processes.
They will develop their ideas and entrepreneurial skills and spend time in industry gaining key experience in post-production and working in collaboration with other students.
Students will study further high-end professional skills and build a final major project portfolio of their work, ready for industry.
We ask students to show their contextual studies research in a long form dissertation.
Editors and post-production professionals often start work as edit assistants, assistant colourists, data wranglers, trainee visual effects compositors and machine room technicians.
You can progress to roles such as editors, colourists or compositors in film, TV and online media.
Admission onto this course is subject to successful review of your portfolio (or showreel).
Please provide the following :
The Interview and portfolio page page offers great tips for completing your portfolio.
Ravensbourne have strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, Blackmagic Design, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
Part of Oscar-winning team behind Amy, the film about the life and death of Amy Winehouse.
Now works as Assistant Editor at On the Corner Films
Alumni editors taking home top prizes at the Young Arrow Awards 2022.
Fabio balances his time between contractual and freelance jobs and has worked with household names such as The Discovery Channel and Vice Media
Behind the scenes on the BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-music-and-sound-production:
aspiring music and audio producers, sound designers, musicians, composers and sonic artists who wish to hone their sound production skills.
Are you an aspiring media composer, sound designer or audio producer looking to develop your music and sound production skills?
With access to cutting-edge equipment, the BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production at Ravensbourne University London delves into the creation and production of sound and music across different contexts and industries, providing you with a diverse, industry-ready skillset and portfolio.
Music and sound production make a vital contribution to not only media and communications, but culture as a whole.
Sound moves people; it defines eras, shapes personalities, sells products and adds meaning to moving imagery on our screens.
This music and sound production degree in London, UK, is for aspiring media composers, sound designers and audio producers who wish to supercharge their skills and apply them in a wide range of roles in the creative industries.
You will develop specialisms which could include audio production in studio, live and location settings, sound design, songwriting, composition and soundtrack creation for film, television, games and immersive media (VR/AR).
The course is practically-focused, and you will get an understanding of audio, sound arts and music as distinct specialisms, as well as how they intersect with storytelling and the moving image.
Ultimately, you will be encouraged to apply the technical and creative aspects of sound and music production in a project-based learning environment.
At Ravensbourne University London, our aim is to create industry-ready mindsets and skillsets, so your transition from study to career is a seamless one.
Collaboration is at the heart of this degree in music and sound production, so you will undertake project briefs with other students to realise projects as part of a team.
Teaching staff include established academics and industry professionals in music production, audio engineering, film and TV, radio, animation, games and sonic arts.
You will also benefit from a range of masterclasses and talks by visiting speakers.
Are you the next artist to tell stories and illicit emotions through music and sound?
I would encourage students to take full advantage of the additional lectures and masterclasses as well as available industry networking opportunities.
These were really valuable in developing my theoretical and practical skills.”
Jacopo Consonn , Sound Design BA (Hons) graduate
You will develop specialisms which could include:
Current Music and Sound Design course specification: Download course specification
New Music and Sound Production course specification (starting Sept 2024): Downloadable course specification
Students will build skills in sound and music production, studio and location recording, electronic arrangement, composition, editing and postproduction.
They will begin to think about their own music composition and sound design, building confidence by working to set briefs.
They will also gain a fundamental knowledge of the industry and the varied opportunities for work they will be aiming for.
Students will gain a greater understanding of equipment and software and think about the specialist areas of music composition and sound design in which they are used.
This will allow them to enhance their practice and develop their own approach based on standard industry workflows.
Students will engage in creative briefs that encourage them to collaborate with other students and create work as part of a team.
Students will bring their learning together in a final portfolio of skills.
Alongside this, they will complete a self-initiated project.
The final portfolio will act as a showreel or promotional tool for entry into the industry.
Students should ideally have a background in creative media production or music.
Applicants are expected to submit a portfolio of work , which can take the form of a showreel/demo showcasing a range of their skills or links to previous and current samples of work.
Applications without a portfolio are accepted, but the applicant will be asked to attend an interview with a panel of course staff members.
Music and sound production is a continually developing field that is key to the creative industries.
Graduates go on to work in roles like composition and song writing, studio and live music and audio production, the audio-visual industries like film, television and games, sound engineering, or pursue postgraduate studies and academic careers.
Admission onto this course is also subject to successful completion of an interview and portfolio.
Portfolio
Your portfolio should consist of a single Word or PDF document containing online links to three examples of original Music or Sound Design.
If possible, please include at least one example created for a form of audio-visual or interactive media (e.g.
music or sound design for a short film, animation or game).
If you do not have three examples of original composition work, you may also include sound recordings or audio production work, such as band recordings and audio mixes, or examples of musicianship, such as a video of you playing an instrument.
The content can be uploaded in online platforms, such as Soundcloud, Youtube or Vimeo, or a personal website.
Include short paragraph of text explaining your role on each piece.
Interview
Be prepared to discuss the pieces in your portfolio during you interview, covering how and why you made the work from both a technical and creative angle.
Sound producer for LBC, BBC and the Radio Times, head-hunted by the Guardian
Worked as a freelance sound engineer for Resonance FM, Insight Guides, Cafe OTO, The Windmill, ATG and Richmond Theatre
Has worked with Universal Production Music, now audio lead for a mobile games developer
Sound Producer for media house, Ablinq

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/ba-hons-multimedia-and-broadcast-journalism:
t hose wishing to specialise in modern broadcast journalism, integrating technical production skills with strong journalistic principles.
This course bridges the gap between technical production and journalism, giving you a stepping stone towards a career in a modern, fast-paced newsroom.
You’ll explore a range of broadcast journalism topics such as storytelling, podcasting, impact journalism, and emerging technologies.
You will also receive presenter and voice training, and will work to live "News Day" briefs for real-world experience.
Please note this course will begin in September 2026.*
This course is designed for students seeking to enter the fast-paced world of modern media, combining storytelling expertise with cutting-edge production skills.
You will develop a comprehensive understanding of the technical, legal, and ethical elements of journalism across various broadcast platforms.
As media technologies evolve, so will your skills, preparing you to work in today’s integrated digital landscape — whether on television, online, or through new and emerging platforms.
The course will teach a wide variety of topics relevant to broadcast journalism, including but not limited to: storytelling, podcasting, production software, virtual production, politics and public administration, course reporting, studio and outside broadcasting, ethics and law for journalism, impact journalism, and emerging technologies.
The programme is distinctive in its focus on broadcast journalism, rather than print media, and is aimed at catering for this new broadcasting landscape.
In year 1, you will study five core modules that will prepare you with the necessary skills to take into broadcast journalism.
Modules include*:
For year 2, you will complete modules that are designed to teach you the fundamental principles of journalism, while allowing you to gain first-hands experience in a newsroom.
Year 3 will see you undertake a final major project, as well as teaching you how to adapt your journalism based on the latest changes in technology.
Undergraduate courses at Ravensbourne equip students with the skills and experiences necessary to graduate as industry-ready professionals.
Opportunities to work and learn with giants of the broadcasting industry, such as the BBC and Sky News, ensure that this course helps pave the way for a future in fast-paced, dynamic newsroom environments – either in front of, or behind, the camera.
You will be expected to have A level (or equivalent) qualifications in media studies, politics, languages, economics or history.
Applicants would be expected to evidence a genuine interest in news and journalism through a personal statement, before attending an interview with the course team.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-character-design-concept-art:
Those looking to develop your own distinctive visual voice and become an experimental and creative practitioner
Do you want to be involved in creating characters and environments for animation, gaming, comics and products?
This specialist course will equip you with the skills and knowledge to embark on a career in the ever-expanding creative industries.
Taught in a studio-style environment, students will learn drawing and image-making skills, and work with 3D modelling and digital media to develop concepts and visuals for environments and characters.
This focussed and practice-led course prepares you for entry into the specialist field of concept art and character design.
With access to state-of-the-art facilities and strong industry links, the course will enable you to sharpen your skills and prepare you for industry.
Through an exploration of drawing, anatomy, working with narrative, 3D modelling and using modern digital image-making tools, you will gain a deep understanding of how to create authentic characters and visual concepts.
You'll explore and apply your skills across a range of illustrative applications including: drawing and image-making fundamentals, understanding and interpreting narrative informed by research, using digital image-making tools and 3D modelling to bring characters and environments to life.
In year 1 you will build essential skills in ideation, character design and narrative.
You will be introduced to industry standard software such as Photoshop and Cinema 4D and cover the intricacies of world building for the motion picture, animation and video game industry.
In year 2 you will focus on live briefs from industry and deepen your skill building in digital media (both 2D and 3D) and engaging with visual and textual research to invent new worlds and characters.
You will also gain valuable work experience in industry as part of year 2.
During year 3 you will prepare for the creative industries, working on projects directed towards specific sectors of the industry.
You will have access to Industry experts who will guide your portfolio development and you will have the opportunity to showcase your work in public facing venues.
You will be continually assessed throughout the course using a variety of methods including peer assessment, presentations and reflective written documents.
We are looking for aspiring illustrators who are passionate about image-making, and want to take part in shaping the future of visual communication.
We are not seeking industry-ready professionals, or people with established styles - we are simply looking for students who are excited and intrigued by character design and concept art, and have the curiosity and motivation to approach it with the energy and focus it needs.
This means that we have no specific requirements for what should be in your portfolio, but we would like to see evidence of how you like to make images (it doesn’t matter if that’s drawing, painting, digital work, collage, photography, animation - that part is up to you), as well as roughs, sketchbooks and development, so that we can get an idea of how you create your work.
Technical and digital skills are useful, but not mandatory - digital workshops run throughout the course, and will get you up to speed on everything you need to learn to create industry-ready work.
This course crosses many creative boundaries with opportunities within multiple sectors including graphic design, advertising, publishing, fashion, product design, animation and games design.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-digital-content-creation:
all-round creatives who wish to tell impactful stories through digital storytelling.
Do you want to learn the art of digital storytelling, create content that stands out from the crowd, and build long-lasting relationships between consumers and brands?
In this multi-disciplinary course, you will be guided through the whole digital content creation process, from idea generation, research into audiences and the market, digital content production and measuring the impact of the content produced.
Successful content creation can be game changing for brands, enhancing their visibility and enabling them to connect with audiences worldwide.
On this course in digital content creation, learn how to build long-term awareness and engagement.
Become part of Ravensbourne’s creativity community, and learn the skills required to develop film and digital content to create powerful campaigns.
Support business and marketing strategies for brands and companies and build solid entrepreneurial skills.
Ravensbourne is a pioneer in the creative application of digital technologies.
You will learn the creative and conceptual skills required to produce digital content to create powerful campaigns.
These can be used to support marketing strategies for brands of all sizes, as well as individuals who want to communicate their ideas to the public.
By the end of the course, you will have built up an impressive portfolio of digital content creation skills and already have a wealth of experience working with clients.
The modules on this BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation course enable you to gradually build your creative, conceptual and digital content skills and enable you to enhance your long-term career or future academic choices.
You will always be encouraged to network and make contacts for the future, and there will be opportunities to work on live briefs for clients.
You will develop your communication skills through pitches, and use industry-standard professional equipment and software to produce high-quality content.
In the first year, you will be introduced to the fundamentals of digital marketing, as well as experimenting with photography, video, podcasting, website design and copywriting.
You'll be introduced to the principles of graphic design and how it relates to branding.
You'll also look at how search engine optimisation (SEO) techniques can be used to enable an audience can find their desired content.
You will also explore the legal and ethics of the digital world, consumer psychology, and begin to pitch for work with clients.
In second year, learners will build on their skills from their first year and take a deeper dive into social media marketing and how to can develop a strategy for a brand.
You'll explore more advanced video production techniques, including motion graphics and animation, to enhance your storytelling skills.
You'll apply user research and use design skills to create a prototype of an app.
Throughout your second year, you'll be working on building your professional connections, as well as keeping up with industry news and changes.
You will undertake an invaluable work-based learning opportunity which will further support your skillset and provide you with real-world knowledge of the industry.
Your third year will be focused on bringing the best of your skills together and getting them ready for life beyond Ravensbourne.
You will respond to client and/or competition briefs and work collaboratively with your peers.
You will prepare your portfolio; showcasing the best of your creations, boosting your employability and demonstrating clearly that you are industry-ready upon graduation.
In your final semester, you will research and analyse an aspect of the future of digital landscape – a future that you will have a hand in shaping.
As well as this, you will plan a creative marketing strategy which is informed by audience insights, market analysis and your own production skills, and then you will bring it to life.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation degree course, we will need to see examples of previous of digital media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.
This could include:
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation degree course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design:
forward-looking designers and visual thinkers who are interested in design's power to engage and persuade, and who want to use design to transform their own and others' futures.
Learn to apply design thinking to reach global audiences in new and immersive ways.
Work by student Alice Härse
Our BA (Hons) Graphic Design course has a vision of design that meets the future head-on.
An ambitious course, your learning is technologically focussed, open and collaborative, and applies design thinking to reach global audiences in new and immersive ways.
Students on our Graphic Design course will develop a critical eye for design and a knowledge of different design approaches and creative problem solving techniques.
You will develop both the vision and the resilience to succeed in the creative industries.
This degree in Graphic Design allows you to work cross-media and explore the subject from a number of critical perspectives, challenging the different roles graphic designers can take.
We value individualism and encourage concept-driven work, showing a clear understanding of design problems as well as the production of visual languages.
During this BA Hons Graphic Design degree in London, UK, you will explore novel ways of design thinking, including format, context, materials and medium.
You will sharpen your creative skills and reimagine methods of communication through numerous visual platforms and environments, such as typography, editorial design, data visualisation and much more.
With access to cutting-edge facilities, you’ll work with industry practitioners to explore creative design thinking across a range of briefs.
In dedicated studio spaces, you will study a blend of practice and theory-based learning strategies, including lectures, workshops, tutorials and live projects.
Senior lecturers and visiting professionals will offer invaluable industry insight, as well as support your future career choices.
Is it time you unlocked your creative potential?
The programme balances preparation for entry to the commercial world of design very well with a more critical and academic approach to the discipline.
I see universities like Ravensbourne as helping people develop into tomorrow’s leaders and innovators.”
Darren Raven , External examiner
Our first year explores the fundamentals of graphic design, looking in depth at ideas, tools and approaches, working together, digital skills, users and audiences, design and technology in culture, the future of workspaces, and utilising serious play.
You are treated as a design professional from day one.
The second year of the Graphic Design degree expands your design horizons, giving you a thorough grasp of the current settings for work, helping you to specialise and focusing your ambitions by offering you live briefs, collaborations, external partnerships, and work-based learning opportunities.
The final year refines your design voice and prepares you to join the design community, by constructing your portfolio, refining your chosen direction, building professional readiness, a future-facing showcase and your own design identity.
You will graduate with strong concept skills, technical expertise and understanding of the future settings of design within society.
Our graduates work in areas such as: typography, editorial design, packaging, information design, wayfinding, exhibition design, user-experience and user-experience (UX/UI) design, art direction and design strategy.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Your portfolio
Bring along your portfolio and don’t forget your sketchbooks, which will demonstrate your creative processes and how you think.
We are interested in seeing your completed projects, including final outcomes, but it's always good to include any personal work you're proud of too.
We will be looking out for original and innovative experiments as well as relevant visual research and idea development.
Examples of work can include (but not restricted to):
Your interview At interview we're keen to hear all about your motivation and enthusiasm to study Graphic Design at Ravensbourne.
Show us you have a good understanding of your work and why you want to pursue a career in the creative industries.
Finally, the interview is a great opportunity to meet current students, get to know the course better and ask us questions.
Intern at Jimmy Choo headquarters, now designer at Net-A-Porter
Product Designer, Barclays
The power-duo behind K&B Design have been painting their way across London, even partnering with Samsung and EE.
Mid-weight designer at a boutique studio in London
Product Marketing Manager, Adobe
Your Thurrock cover Ravensbourne graduates K & B Design who create colourful and thought provoking mural in Chadwell St Mary, partnering with Thurrock and Brentwood Mind for Mental Health Awareness Week.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration-communication:
aspiring illustrators and contemporary visual storytellers who wish to hone their craft across the creative spectrum.
With access to state-of-the-art facilities and strong partnerships with high profile companies, our Illustration for Communication degree course will sharpen your skillset, help you to promote your craft and prepare you for industry.
Blacka is an illustrative designer and animator based in London, honing his skills in character design, concept art and animation with two distinct styles on the opposite ends of the spectrum, a touch of realism and a splash of cartoonism.
Combining his passion for animation and visuals he started a project called ‘The 3 Elements’, an ambitious animated series, creating a magical universe where the power of fine art, film, animation, illustration and music collide.
Blacka draws inspiration from pop culture, emotion and surrealism.
Maintaining the highest level of quality he creates a powerful timeless aesthetic accessible to all.
Our challenging and exciting illustration course in London takes an innovative, experimental and critical approach to the broad practice of illustration.
The three-year BA Honours degree will help you to develop new skills, encourage new ways of thinking, enable you to find your individual visual voice, and prepare you for the ever-moving creative landscape.
Working in a collaborative studio environment, you will have opportunities to apply your skills across a range of illustrative applications, including: editorial, publishing, packaging, product, print, advertising, character and film.
Illustration for Communication at Ravensbourne University London spans the creative spectrum, turning illustrators into contemporary visual storytellers.
As it crosses so many creative boundaries, there are unparalleled opportunities for contemporary illustrators to work with time-based, sequential and narrative forms.
This includes graphic design, advertising and publishing, fashion and product design, animation and games design.
Ready to find your visual voice and develop your own personal style?
If you study this illustration degree you will work with text, drawings, moving images and printmaking to develop concepts for multiple industries – from commercial graphic design to fashion and animation.
Thanks to Ravensbourne I feel I am fully prepared for life after graduation.
I am confident, I know how to speak to clients and can understand their needs.
I’m working part time as a freelancer and my studies have helped enormously – from coping with orders to actively looking for all the latest trends.
Solomiya Svystun , current student, BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication
Working in a collaborative studio environment, students will have the opportunity to apply their skills across a range of illustrative applications including:
This studio-led introduction to illustration expands mindsets and skillsets through workshops and projects.
You will have the opportunity to explore idea generation, documentation and process experimentation, and the creation of image-making through computing, animation, photography and digital print.
A programme of industry practitioners and speakers supplements and enhances the core delivery.
Year two explores a more individual approach to image-making and encourages the development of creative thinking and ideas generation, combined with a deeper understanding of the subject.
The ability to have a personal vision, a point-of-view and philosophical stance is explored and a range of electives help facilitate collaborative projects with other disciplines.
The culmination of three years of study in illustration is channelled into practical projects, which are increasingly professional in scope.
A range of self-directed project solutions form the basis of the final portfolio of work appropriate to applied contexts across a range of disciplines, along with a major project.
You will be assessed through the completion of practical and written work, including essays and a range of individual or group artefacts, presentations, projects and reports that focus on practical and business skills.
We are not seeking industry-ready professionals, or people with established styles - we are simply looking for students who are excited and intrigued by illustration, and have the curiosity and motivation to approach it with the energy and focus it needs.
As the BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication degree course crosses so many creative boundaries, there are unparalleled opportunities for contemporary illustrators to work with time-based, sequential and narrative forms.
As a contemporary illustration graduate, you will be entering a world of work where the industry calls for adaptability - to think outside of the box and to develop complex visual responses to briefs”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-product-design:
practical, 'hands-on' learners who want to know how to create design solutions and build a career as a product designer.
Ready to bring your ideas to life?
This Product Design degree in London enables you to explore ergonomics, aesthetics and sustainability to produce an industry-ready portfolio.
Explore Rezma's work
Explore more of Chi Chung Chan's work
Work by student Enzo Daquipil for a first aid brief - Clean Wrap Go
In this hands-on Product Design course at Ravensbourne University London, you’ll define problems and opportunities through cutting-edge research and analysis, develop original ideas with creative thinking, and deliver detailed designs ready for production.
Predominantly project-based, you’ll study the functional and market-led requirements of product design from concept to production, looking at ergonomics, aesthetics, usability, sustainability, intellectual property and the application of technology.
You’ll also learn to communicate your design work engagingly through prototypes, sketches, design documents, renders and pitch presentations.
Live projects with illustrious brands will give you real-world design experience.
Our professionally-active lecturers and technicians will offer exceptional industry insight and enable you to identify areas where design could have a significant and positive impact in social, economic and environmental contexts.
You will also gain access to unrivalled, state-of-the-art prototyping and 3D printing equipment.
When you graduate from BA Hons Product Design, you will have the tools to develop products that push boundaries, so you can thrive in this innovative sector.
The course gave me so much product and manufacturing knowledge and access to all the resources I needed to make my work stand out and my portfolio ready for the jobs market.”
Bonnie Johnson , Product Design BA (Hons) graduate
Students will learn essential skills in 2D and 3D design, user research, the iterative design process and current design software packages.
They will begin to develop their own approach to product design and build confidence and self-discipline in responding to live and self-initiated briefs.
Throughout this stage we encourage students to start thinking about their contextual studies research.
Students will gain a deeper understanding of the design process, from prototype development leading to the study of materials and manufacturing techniques.
We set briefs that encourage students to collaborate with other students and we encourage them to take up work-based learning opportunities in the design industry.
We nurture student's independence as designers with a self-directed major product design project, ready for exhibition at the Degree Show.
They will be assessed on a collaborative brief and are required to enter competitions and engage with industry design challenges.
At the same time, they will produce a portfolio for entry into the industry.
Graduates often proceed to a career in product design, packaging, service retail interior design, 3D promotional design and user experience design.
For example, our graduates often help to develop new electronic devices, food packaging and better customer experience in industries such as finance, transport and entertainment.
We encourage you to take up work-based learning opportunities in industry to help shape your future career path.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) Product Design degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
At your interview, be ready to discuss a few (no more than 4) examples of their design work showing evidence of:
This work would have been completed as part of:
Took part in Sky Arts television programme ‘The Big Design Challenge’, which assembles the nation’s most talented designers to compete for a grand prize.
3D Junior Designer at advertising agency, Proximity World Wide
Junior Designer at design agency, Echo House in London
Since 2018 has worked her way up from Junior Designer to Mid-Weight Designer and is now Product Owner
Top design award for Ravensbourne student
Calum Gambrill, BA (Hons) Product Design student, came up with an idea for an accessible and inclusive taxi service and won a prestigious award.
Read the full story...

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-ux-ui-user-experience-and-user-interface-design:
digital designers who wish to create better, future-facing online user experiences and platforms.
Study for a UI/UX design course in London and create intuitive digital products and ingenious apps for the platforms of the future.
With access to gold-standard facilities, you’ll become a master of functionality by creating effective design solutions for the user of tomorrow.
Explore more of Jack's work
Explore more of Oliver's work
Explore more of Nathanael's work
Student coursework
Student work for a brief from the Global Association for Creative Advertising and Design Awards (D&AD)
Student work for a brief from Global Association for Creative Advertising and Design Awards (D&AD)
User-experience and user-interface design is all around us, from the screens we tap and swipe to the services we rely on.
UX and UI design is an emerging field of multidisciplinary skills and activities designing future-facing platforms.
This includes: apps, websites, digital products and services, augmented and virtual reality experiences, installation design, wearable technology and the Internet of Things.
This practice-led UI/UX design course in London, UK, looks at the fundamentals, including user research, experience design, interaction design, visual design and information architecture – and how these components can be professionally identified, investigated, informed and interrogated.
It explores design thinking, human-centered design and the creative and innovative use of technology to boost organisations and inspire positive change.
When you graduate with a BA (Hons) in User Experience and User Interface Design from Ravensbourne University London, you will learn from the leading minds in the industry.
You will combine theory with practice to understand user behaviour and design products and services that optimise the user’s experience.
This UX/UI design course explores the importance of designing for the end-user experience with intuitive user interfaces.
You will develop an individual portfolio of projects based on user-centred research and design experimentation, which will showcase your creative, analytical and technical expertise.
UX/UI designers are in huge demand across all sectors, and owed to our exceptional industry connections, this course is designed to make you truly industry ready.
The Clearleft team helped the UX/UI design students across multiple sessions on a live competition brief.
We gave presentations and ran design reviews and interactive workshops on techniques and theory – all of which helped the students progress their projects.
The students were engaged, enthusiastic and worked across a range of interesting ideas.”
Ben White , Creative Director, Clearleft
This design-led introduction explores core competencies in graphic and information design and in design and coding for the web.
Students will begin to learn the fundamental skills of the UX and UI designer in the structuring of visual information and start to develop a fundamental digital skill-set.
Year 2 explores more advanced interactivity through play and experimentation in coding.
Encouraging a personal approach, the course enables and supports the application of both individual and group design propositions to real-world and imagined scenarios.
The culmination of three years of study is channelled into practical projects, which become increasingly professional in scope.
A range of self-directed projects along with a major project of the final body of work forms the third year of study.
Final work is appropriate to applied contexts within the creative industries.
We will consider a wide range of applicants who show creativity and curiosity in the areas of design, technology, research, and more specifically digital experiences and interfaces.
You do not need to have any coding or specific design software knowledge to be considered for the course.
If you wish to study our BA (Hons) UX UI User-Experience and User-Interface Design degree course, we will need to see examples of previous work that showcases your suitability for the course.
Your interview will last approximately 20 minutes.
It will be a friendly chat about your work, discuss your interest in the course, and answer any questions you have.
Please bring along your portfolio, which could be printed sheets or a digital portfolio or website on a laptop or tablet.
Your portfolio may include:
It is also great to see your creative process and how you developed your final outcome.
Please include sketchbooks including brainstorms, sketches or drawings of ideas and designs, inspiration, moodboards, experiments and prototypes.
You may also want to include extra projects and self-initiated design or technology projects you have done outside of any education program.
UX/UI designers are in huge demand from industry across all sectors helping to define and create the future products, services and experiences people want and enjoy.
Graduates will find work in a number of roles such as UX designer, UX researcher, UI designer, interaction designer, service designer, visual designer and creative technologist.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-advertising-and-brand-design-foundation-year:
aspiring brand storytellers who wish to propel products and services through a diverse range of creative strategies.
This is a 4-year degree which includes a preparatory first year as part of the BA Advertising and Brand Design course.
This 4-year option will suit you if you want more time to develop your skillset before starting year one of your undergraduate degree or if you do not fulfil the entry requirements of the 3-year course.
Advertising and Brand Design (with Foundation Year) is not a standalone course: it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
Downloadable course specification (Foundation Year)
Download course specification BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design
The Foundation year (or year 0) is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course.
You will be introduced to the fundamentals of the course through a combination of learning and teaching methods such as: workshops, lectures, seminars, group exercises, self-directed study, as well as individual or group tutorials.
Key study topics:
The second year will be more exploratory with increased self-directed activity.
Supported by Ravensbourne careers team, you'll also have the chance to secure a work-based learning opportunity within industry during your 2nd semester.
Previous partnerships and relationships for this course have included; Apple, Sky, Barclays, JKR, Moving Brands, Concept Kicks, Kin + Carta, the Wilderness Agency, Kairos Media etc.
You will personalise your practice, present ideas to the world and exchange ideas with industry professionals.
You will write a dissertation and, with the support of the tutors, create a series of self-directed projects.
This is an opportunity to explore personal interests related to advertising and branding.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-digital-content-creation-foundation-year:
This is a 4-year degree which includes a preparatory first year as part of the BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation course.
Digital Content Creation (with Foundation Year) is not a standalone course: it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
The Foundation year is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation
You will be introduced to the fundamental principles of academic practice, developing your communication, critical thinking and research skills.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-buying-and-brand-management-foundation-year:
This is a 4-year degree which includes a preparatory first year as part of the BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management course.
Fashion Buying with Brand Management (with Foundation Year) is not a standalone course: it is the first stage of a full four-year undergraduate degree.
Teachers are all industry professionals
Develop the mindset and skill-set needed to succeed in a competitive industry
Encourages creative flair while also developing your business skills
Gain the knowledge and confidence to thrive in industry – learn to add value from day one
Develop your presentation skills to pitch yourself or projects successfully.
Trend forecasting
Consumer profiling
Identification
Market research
Fashion buying and product development
Merchandising
Visual merchandising
Manufacturing and sustainability
Business planning
Brand management
Marketing.
The Foundation year (or year 0) is a preparatory year as part of the four-year BA (Hons) Fashion Buying and Brand Management .
Students will explore and gain insight into target audience behaviour, psychographic profiling and data analysis in order to understand what makes people buy.
You will engage in masterclasses in trend prediction, buying cycles, range planning, sales performance, product development, fabric identification and testing, 3D digital textile manipulation, the supply chain and the importance of circularity.
Every student will be given the opportunity to find their own work-based learning opportunity within industry to develop their employability skills.
Graduates can find work in roles such as:
Past graduates have found roles as buyers, administration assistants, merchandising administration assistants, and visual merchandisers in well-known companies like Net-A-Porter, Harvey Nichols, Liberty, Urban Outfitters, Mackintosh, ASOS, River Island, and Kurt Geiger.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/register-your-interest-our-undergraduate-courses:
Course Page Enquiry

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/mba:
Currently reading: Course specifics
If you want to explore business on an international and global level, then this could be the course for you.
It has been uniquely designed for those who are interested in studying among the UK’s finest creatives in a design-led environment.
This course will provide you with a holistic and integrated approach to your practice.
Meet Marios, our MBA course leader and find out what the MBA community at Ravensbourne is like, and how this course is different from all the others.
managers and executives looking to progress their career, or for those working in industry who want to advance their business proficiency.
We live in uncertain times, and so it is crucial that entrepreneurs and those working in senior business positions are culturally agile and adaptable.
On this MBA at Ravensbourne University London, you will develop global perspectives, broaden your horizons and become an expert in evaluating current challenges in business management.
During the course, you will take an in-depth look at business management and administration and will participate in a collaborative working environment.
Through a series of business lectures and classes taught by industry and academic professionals, you will develop a varied skill-set to enable you to progress your career in business and management.
You will be pushed outside of your comfort zone to enhance your own leadership skills and be put to the test through simulated tasks emulating real world practice.
Study in a supportive environment with like-minded individuals who can share your ideas and vision.
This versatile MBA in business administration will support and prepare you for progression into a variety of sectors and roles.
Graduates often secure roles within the areas of consulting, finance and investment, technology, analysis, operations and human resource management (HRM).
The Cultural and Creative Industry sectors were amongst the most rapidly growing sectors of the world economy, generating nearly 30 million jobs worldwide.
According to recent forecasts these sectors will represent around 10% of global GDP in the years to come.”
UNESCO ,
Terms 1 and 2
In terms 1 and 2, you will explore contemporary business practices in learning innovation, digital transformation and enterprise.
The course will prepare you for the dynamic, ever-changing international business landscape.
You will learn how to adapt to changes in the economy and in trade through teaching around financial planning.
You will develop skills in long-term business planning and support this with the development of project management skills.
Term 3
In term 3, through your final dissertation, you will identify a long-standing business research problem and create a proposal which supports both existing research findings and your own.
Teaching sessions for this course will take place Monday to Friday between 9am and 9pm.
As such, the course may include some evening teaching.
Home
A lower second-class honours (a 2:2, or equivalent non-UK qualifications) or higher in a relevant subject, or an equivalent professional qualification in a related subject.
You will also need to submit a copy of your Curriculum Vitae (CV)/Resume.
If you are applying directly from an undergraduate degree course without experience or professional practice, you must be able to demonstrate a good knowledge of your chosen subject area.
International
If you have international qualifications, please view our entry requirements per country .
Along with your academic qualifications, you will also need to submit a copy of your Curriculum Vitae (CV)/Resume.
In order to be eligible for this course, you will need to be a competent speaker and writer of English.
If you require a Student Visa you need to provide us with an IELTS or equivalent English language qualification, which demonstrates a minimum of 6.0 (with a minimum of 5.5 in each sub test) or CEFR Level B2 in each component.
Please read the English Language requirements or contact [email protected] for more information.
Selection criteria
We welcome suitably-qualified applicants who are able to demonstrate a good level of skills in areas associated with this subject.
To get a holistic view of your ability and aptitude to succeed on the course, we will also consider your enthusiasm and interest in the subject area, how you manage the creative process, previous study and your professional skill-set.
Applications are welcome from a wide range of backgrounds and experience including from students who may not necessarily possess formal academic qualifications.
It is important that applicants can demonstrate an aptitude for learning and continued professional development through a research-led approach.
Whether you are a UK resident or an international applicant, you will need to apply directly to Ravensbourne via our Online Applicant Portal .
Each course and mode option has a unique link to apply.
Simply select and click your chosen start date and mode via the 'Apply now' drop down at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate page inside the portal.
Learn more: how to apply for a postgraduate course
We very much welcome applicants from outside the UK.
For information on study routes, visa requirements, studying in England, language and entry requirements, application requirements and access to international agents, please visit our international student section .
We want to know why you chose the UK as your study destination, what attracted you to Ravensbourne and the course, and how it relates to or fits in with your plans for the future.
We love to hear people's motivations and aspirations, so please make your personal statement, 'personal'.
Using a minimum of 500 words, please use your personal statement to explain:
There are no interview or portfolio requirements for this course.
You can’t learn in a vacuum, which is why industry connection is ingrained into everything we do.
Ravensbourne University London will equip you for success in the creative and digital industries.
Our tutors are respected academics and practitioners with substantial experience and industry links, while our suite of postgraduate courses has been designed with industry, for industry.
You will be part of a diverse community of creatives, working collaboratively to explore new professional practices.
The EventsHub is a flexible space designed to house various industry-facing lectures, presentations, events, launches, promotions, showcases, exhibitions and short courses for Ravensbourne, the local community and across the Design District.
Our Prototyping facilities are designed to enable and support experimentation and exploration of materials and making through hi-tech, lo-tech and no-tech facilities.
This includes 3D printing, large-format digital print, laser cutting and vacuum forming, Arduino and Raspberry Pi coding and workshop hand-tools.
CreativeLab is Ravensbourne’s own in-house design and media production studio.
Working across creative commercial projects, not-for-profit third-sector briefs and internal design and content requirements, CreativeLab combines professional design expertise with employment opportunities on projects for our students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-accounting-and-finance:
This course is designed for students seeking to develop their understanding of accounting and finance while also preparing to take exams or seek exemption in professional accountancy qualifications.
With a comprehensive curriculum that combines theory with practice, graduates will leave prepared for a career in the global finance and accounting environment.
This course is designed for students seeking to develop their understanding of accounting and finance.
This course offers a comprehensive curriculum that combines theoretical knowledge with practical application, preparing students for a successful career in the global finance and accounting landscape.
The course is structured to provide a thorough grounding in essential accounting principles, financial management, and taxation, alongside advanced topics such as auditing, corporate governance and financial analysis.
By aligning with professional body rigorous standards, the course not only enhances your academic credentials but also positions you strategically for a career in accounting and finance with recognized professional qualifications.
Additionally, the course is an opportunity to explore global accounting and finance practices, enabling a keen understanding of diverse regulatory frameworks and financial environments that are essential in today’s interconnected economy.
Finally, through hands-on learning experiences such as case studies, simulations and collaborative projects, you’ll be able to put your theoretical knowledge to the test through practical learning designed to equip you with insight and understanding of real-world accounting and finance.
Teaching sessions for this course will take place Monday to Friday between 9.00am and 9.00pm.
anyone looking to develop advanced technical expertise in the principles of accounting and financial management.
This course will enable you to develop the requisite skills, experience and insight to take on the world of accounting and finance through modules such as:
There are no interview or portfolio requirements for this course.
Graduates from this course will be able to continue to complete the professional accountancy qualifications.
This will allow graduates to further their careers and move into management accountancy.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-business-and-data-analytics:
This course is designed to teach students to leverage data in making business decisions, a key aspect of success for any business.
The integration of advanced data analytics with business acumen ensures that students are ready to address real-world challenges in the relevant industries.
With many companies still developing an  understanding of their critical data, increasingly including big data, this course develops data analytics, data mining, artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques to help graduates address the needs of industry.
The course is designed to equip students with the skills to leverage data in making informed business decisions, a key aspect of success for any business.
The integration of advanced data analytics with business acumen ensures that graduates are prepared to address real-world challenges in the relevant industries.
Whether it is analysing consumer behaviour in digital media or assessing the financial impact of a new project, the programme prepares students to unlock insights that are essential for driving innovation and strategic decision-making.
The course combines advanced technical skills in data science, data analytics, data mining and artificial intelligence with a strong foundation in business strategy and governance.
Students will gain expertise in handling complex data systems, leveraging big data and cloud technologies, and applying advanced analytical methods to solve business problems.
The course emphasises project-based, hands-on learning, allowing students to work with industry standard tools.
By addressing the needs of industry, the programme ensures graduates are equipped to deliver strategic insights and drive innovation across diverse sectors.
Delivered in the creative and innovative environment of Ravensbourne University London, the program offers a distinctive edge by integrating design thinking and collaborative problem-solving approaches, setting graduates apart as well-rounded, forward-thinking analytics professionals ready to lead in the global marketplace.
analytical professionals who want to develop connections between business strategy and data science.
The course includes modules designed to provide a profound understanding of how to leverage data for the strategic interests of business.
Graduates from this course will be primed for roles including, but not limited to, data analyst, business intelligence consultant, data scientist and/or market analyst.
Some potential industries that graduates may enter include finance, marketing, creative media and e-commerce.
Graduates may also pursue further study through PhD programmes or certifications in AI or analytics.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-computer-science:
This MSc Computer Science programme offers modules in the likes of artificial intelligence, cyber security, cloud computing, Internet of Things and leading-edge ‘web 3’ technologies, such as blockchain.
In tackling these fields, the curriculum takes a systems architecture approach, encouraging students to work both within and across these technologies.
Our suite of MSc programmes, of which MSc Computer Science is an integral part, seeks to capitalise on and consolidate these past successes.
It aims to expand on Ravensbourne’s activities from its current position as an innovative user of technologies to a leading-edge creator of technologies.
The course invites prospective postgraduate students to be part of that journey, empowering them to draw on and learn from this rich history of innovative design thinking and apply this to the creation of new technologies.
graduates and professionals with a background in computing or related fields wishing to update their skills and professional network by studying cutting-edge areas within computer science.
Programme specification
There are no portfolio requirements for this course.
These are the types of computer science jobs you could potentially move into after graduation:
Our prototyping facilities are designed to enable and support experimentation and exploration of materials and making through hi-tech, lo-tech and no-tech facilities.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-cyber-security:
If you are a graduate or professional with a background in computing, networking or related fields with a desire to update your skills in cyber security and expand your network, then this course is for you.
The MSc Cyber Security programme offers modules in a range of essential topics, including network security, cyber incidence management, cyber forensics and open source intelligence.
MSc Cyber Security aims to provide students with technical skills in cyber security, while also improving their understanding of secure design principles, through modules such as systems architecture, and how to respond to cyber incidents, with modules such as 'cyber incidence management.'
Uniquely, this cyber security programme offers a module in open source intelligence, which is an emerging, popular field found at the intersection of cyber security, forensics and intelligence.
It also offers modules in business development and innovation and responsibility, which will help you understand how your cyber security skills may be commercialised and applied to business and other domains.
graduates and professionals with a background in computing, networking or related fields to update their skills and professional network by studying cyber security.
Applicants will be assessed at interview in accordance with Ravensbourne’s Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy and Procedure.
These are the types of cyber security jobs you could potentially move into after graduation:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-cyber-security-management:
This course* takes a practical approach to provide you with an understanding of the core aspects of cyber security management.
In a rapidly evolving technological landscape, you will learn how the latest insights are being adopted within industry.
Cyber security is a fast-growing industry.
As the number of yearly cyber-attacks grow, organisations are realising the importance of protecting data and technological assets.
As a result, cybersecurity professionals are in increasing demand.
This MSc Cybersecurity Management course in London, UK, focuses on the deployment and implementation of cyber security within an organisation of any size and across any industry.
On this course, you will develop your strategic thinking skills to manage resources, implement solutions and effectively communicate these to senior decision makers.
You’ll develop a clear understanding of the cyber threat landscape and how a cyber incident may evolve, to protect and support the strategic growth of a business.
Alongside core cyber security modules, you’ll have the opportunity to study a technical, elective module, so that you can tailor your course to suit your career.
those looking to understand or apply cyber security in a consultancy, strategic, business or management context.
The aim of the programme is to educate individuals to become proficient cyber security professionals, to address skill shortages in this area and to facilitate career advancement.
In particular, the programme provides preparation for a career in cyber security management, or any management position where the assessment of risk and analysis of data plays a significant role.
Ravensbourne has strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, this has previously included the likes of: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
Ravensbourne's prototyping facilities are designed to enable and support experimentation and exploration of materials and making through hi-tech, lo-tech and no-tech facilities.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-design-communication:
creatives interested in expanding and mastering their knowledge of visual communication through exploring visually storytelling, design thinking and critical analysis techniques.
Construct a critical practice to analyse, experiment and convey messages, meaning and experiences through a diverse range of media.
This interdisciplinary course will enable you to produce a body of work tailored to your interests and motivations and position yourself in the creative and cultural industry.
Authentic Exotic was a project looking at the exoticization and misrepresentation of Korean food in western countries.
Final major project: A project that serves as a culmination of Eugenie’s academic journey, encouraging innovation, self-expression, and a deep understanding of their chosen subject matter using design communication skills.
The work is part of a module brief asking students to capture emotions through visual language.
Final major project: A project that serves as a culmination of Sara’s academic journey, encouraging innovation, self-expression, and a deep understanding of their chosen subject matter using design communication skills.
How time is money and how money is time.
How do we measure time?
Final major project: A project that serves as a culmination of Shirley’s academic journey, encouraging innovation, self-expression, and a deep understanding of their chosen subject matter using design communication skills.
MA Design Communication final degree show at the Design District, London.
the show ran over 3 days and over 200 people from creative industries attended.
Including publishers, graphic design studios and design agencies.
Expand and master your visual communication design skills
Throughout this course, you will be exposed to a range of theoretical frameworks, creative techniques, and research methods that will enable you to investigate a subject of your choosing, unravel its complexity, and translate your findings into powerful visual narratives that can engage and mobilise diverse audiences.
In our exciting MA Design Communication course, you will gain the knowledge, confidence and professional acumen to creatively position services, systems and need-driven design products.
You will respond to societal and user needs to expand your graphic communication design skills.
You will be immersed in the tools and processes of digital design and emerging technologies, whilst exploring the value of design thinking and services in a bustling marketplace.
During the course you will establish a critical design practice, create dynamic interacting spaces, and apply design to respond to a range of needs.
You’ll engage your target audiences by synthesising creativity with sound business theories – an essential skill that will boost your employability across many potential career avenues.
After studying for your MA Design Communication course, you will have:
Your portfolio can be accepted as a PDF uploaded to the applicant portal, or as a weblink.
This should be a portfolio of work containing 6-8 final design solutions with accompanying research materials / sketches.
We are looking for applicants that can demonstrate their creative thinking and problem-solving abilities as well as their technical skillsets within their work.
Your portfolio must include only work that you have created and where any group projects are submitted you should identify your role in the project.
Your portfolio should be a reflection of your journey thus far and also demonstrate your interests and your enthusiasm for your discipline.
There isn't a perfect recipe for a portfolio, but here's an outline of some key ingredients that can effectively showcase your work and interests.
The pivotal element is illustrating your thought process.
Provide insights into the methodologies you employ when unpacking a brief and ideating a project.
Include sketches, notes, and pictures depicting the making process.
Subsequently, reveal the potential outcomes and demonstrate how the work fits into a broader context.
Feel free to incorporate a variety of pieces, whether personal or commercial, ideas yet to be fully developed or student projects.
The crucial factor is only to include what you are genuinely proud of.
Each piece should reflect your interests, skills, and ambitions, guiding the viewer towards understanding the direction in which you aspire to develop your practice.
Remember, your portfolio is a personal representation, so curate it with pieces that authentically resonate with you and effectively communicate your unique perspective and abilities.
Please feel free to include your website, blog or Instagram page if you would like us to see a broader range of your work.
Once you've studied a Design Communication master's degree course, possible career paths include the following job titles:
Ravensbourne have strong industry links with a range of high-profile companies, having previously worked with the likes of: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
Ravensbourne’s prototyping facilities are designed to enable and support experimentation and exploration of materials and making through hi-tech, lo-tech and no-tech facilities.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-design-management:
This MA Design Management course offers a range of interdisciplinary perspectives from business, technology, social enterprises and new venture creation.
It offers practical research and work-based projects in all areas shaping the creative economy and the fourth industrial revolution – including the role of creative interventions in technology-enabled business transformation, change management and design leadership.
Ravensbourne has an established international reputation for innovation at the intersection of design and business development.
Our portfolio of MSc, MBA and MA  programmes encourages an interplay between technology, design, creativity and wider social and economic issues.
The design management programme has been designed in a way that is highly relevant to the leadership and organisational challenges of the creative industries and the technology sectors.
The course looks at the creative skills and competences needed to identify and anticipate business change and transform business models so that they are interactive, anticipatory and future focused.
The course invites postgraduate learners to be part of that journey, empowering them to draw on and learn from innovative design thinking and how this can be applied to the creation of new business models and business development.
professionals and graduates with an interest in innovation, entrepreneurship and management to engage in cutting-edge challenges within the area of business transformation.
There are no portfolio requirements for this course.
These are the types of design management jobs you could potentially move into after graduation:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/mamfa-digital-photography:
Ideal for: Existing photographers and image makers wishing to diversify an existing practice or to move into a different area of photography.
Explore contemporary and commercial photography and develop both practical and academic skills to enhance your existing practice.
Choose between the option of a Master of Fine Art (MFA) or Master's (MA), to find your ideal course.
On the MA/MFA Digital Photography course at Ravensbourne you will look at image making as a modern platform for communication and explore the role that technology plays in shaping the industry, both in the present and future.
You will examine relevant media platforms and formats to explore the dissemination and distribution of the digital image.
Your work will integrate traditional lens-based practices with the contemporary, delving into the likes of computational photography, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and augmented reality (AR).
You will develop and enhance your skills within a series of diverse projects that run through the course.
The variety of the modules will enable you to work within a commercial environment, utilise recognised strategies and workflows and create a body of work that showcases the breadth of your ability and potential.
The course benefits from the university's strong industry reputation and a unique relationship with The Association of Photographers and Capture One Software.
This will enable you to develop a professionally-led approach to your study and to gain a greater understanding of the various career pathways within contemporary photography.
Download course specification (MA) Download course specification (MFA)
The course structure is based around briefs designed with industry participation that build into a final body of work that utilise the university’s facilities as well as the industry experience of the teaching staff.
The relationship between photography and technology is explored to create both distinction and innovation in your project work.
You are encouraged to align your project work within your career aspirations, to help prepare you to enter the creative industries or enhance an existing profile.
For MA/MFA Digital Photography, please show a selection of your best images showing your range and experiences.
Please provide this as an electronic PDF document, make sure to add your name and contact details and any text that might be relevant to introduce your images.
Course Leader - Geraint Cunnick

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-strategic-marketing-and-analytics:
Do you want to study in a collaborative environment and embrace the very latest digital technology?
If so, then this MSc in Strategic Marketing and Analytics is for you.
Enhance your strategic marketing skillset and work side-by-side with industry and research-led staff in a state-of-the-art building in the heart of London's creative district.
students that want to study in an environment with the latest technology while collaborating with industry.
You will work on the latest research developments, while industry speakers provide development opportunities to enrich your creative and strategic business practice.
This will significantly contribute to your university experience and preparation for professional practice.
The curriculum revolves around contemporary strategic marketing practice and emerging trends in the digital world.
Students on the course will delve into the likes of data analytics, strategic marketing, social media trends and innovative research practice and exploring the dynamics of marketing on a global scale.
You will pursue and develop hard and soft skills through a series of projects.
These projects will support contemporary practice in strategic marketing, taught by professionals and academics in an activated studio experience.
The course will bring you closer to the kind of marketing practitioner you wish to become.
There are no interview or portfolio requirements for this master's course.
Simply select and click your chosen start date and mode via the 'Apply now' dropdown at the top of this page, and you will be directed to the appropriate page inside the portal.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-engineering-management:
This course is designed to equip aspiring engineering leaders with the proficiencies required to navigate and manage complex engineering projects and teams in a rapidly evolving technological landscape.
This interdisciplinary course blends technical expertise with management principles, preparing graduates to address the challenges faced by modern engineering.
This course is designed to equip aspiring engineering leaders with the essential skills and knowledge required to navigate the complexities of managing engineering projects and teams in a rapidly evolving technological landscape.
This interdisciplinary course combines technical expertise with management principles, preparing graduates to address the challenges faced by modern engineering organisations.
The course supports students with the broadest range of interest in engineering contexts including, but not limited to mechanical, civil, environmental, industrial and systems engineering.
Throughout the course, students will engage with a diverse curriculum that covers key areas such as project management, systems design, innovation management, leadership and management and sustainability practices.
The course emphasises practical applications, allowing students to work on real-world projects and case studies that reflect current industry trends and challenges.
Students will benefit from a collaborative learning environment, drawing on the expertise of experienced faculty and industry practitioners.
The program encourages the development of critical thinking, problem-solving abilities, and leadership skills, enabling graduates to make informed decisions and drive organisational success.
The industry-relevant curriculum is comprised of a blend of engineering principles and management strategies designed to meet the demands of the engineering sector.
Students will utilise both disciplines through hands-on experiential learning, project-based assessment and collaborating with industry.
This course will provide unique insight into international engineering practices and management strategies, preparing students for a truly global career.
engineers aspiring to be leaders in their field with the capacity to manage projects, design systems and innovate.
This course comprehensively covers advanced aspects of engineering management with modules that span a variety of sectors, meeting their demands in the process.
Graduates from this course will typically move into careers which combine elements of engineering, project management, operations and strategic leadership.
These roles include, but are not limited to, engineering project manager, consultancy, production manager, supply chain manager, risk manager and/or quality assurance.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-events-management:
This course is designed for aspiring professionals seeking to lead, innovate, and drive the future of the global events industry.
This course blends rigorous academic foundations with hands-on experience designed to prepare students to manage and deliver exceptional events across the corporate, entertainment, sports, festival, and cultural project sectors, to name just a few.
This program combines a rigorous academic foundation with practical, hands-on experience, preparing students to manage and deliver exceptional events across various sectors, including corporate, entertainment, sports, festivals, and cultural projects.
We appreciate that our students come from all around the world and therefore recognise the cultural significance and importance of scale and nature of the events they are seeking to manage.
The course equips students with advanced skills in event strategy, creative design, logistics, marketing, project planning, hospitality and sustainable practices.
Students will develop expertise in managing large and small-scale events and learn how to navigate the complexities of client relations, budgeting, and risk management.
By integrating industry-relevant technology and data analytics, students will gain understanding of modern trends and challenges in event management, including the growing demand for virtual and hybrid events.
Throughout the programme, students will have access to a rich network of industry professionals and real-world case studies, ensuring they are equipped with the knowledge, practical skills, and confidence to excel in a dynamic and competitive field.
Through a combination of workshops, seminars, and project-based learning, students will work on live briefs and collaborate with industry partners, providing them with invaluable exposure to the fast-paced world of event production.
individuals who wish to advance into senior roles in the events industry and develop specialised expertise in event planning and delivery.
The modules in this course enable students to develop an understanding of every facet of event management.
Graduates from this course would be suitable for a variety of roles and sectors related to event management.
These include event planning, conference and meetings organisation, sports, festivals and music, corporate hospitality, exhibition coordination, party planning and charity.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-fashion-digital-futures:
On this course you will develop the expert knowledge to create and implement complex designs and technology projects.
You will explore the systems and platforms for communication, responsive content creation, and visualisation, and learn experimental approaches to tackle your work.
Experts suggest that digital fashion will soon become a vital revenue stream for every major fashion retailer.
With this in mind, there are increasing opportunities for designers to find work within this exciting field: developing innovative digital platforms, creating avatars and clothing and building the virtual environments in which these interactions will take place.
On this course in London, UK, you will develop the advanced knowledge to create and implement complex designs and technology projects.
You will explore systems and platforms for communication, responsive content creation, visualisation, and learn experimental approaches to tackle your work.
You will investigate and realise radical project proposals through collaborative interactions with both peers and industry, and explore the latest advancements in technologies such as AI, Web3, digital fashion, metaverse asset realisation, AR, VR and XR.
The course will complement Ravensbourne’s existing fashion courses and is a natural progression from the Digital Technology for Fashion Pathway available on the BA (Hons) Fashion undergraduate course.
Ravensbourne is known for its strong industry links.
On this course you will benefit from live industry projects as well as collaborations between other students and courses.
those keen to develop advanced knowledge in digital transformation within the fashion industry.
In semester 1, you will build skills around three-dimensional printing of models and images (3D) and the making of virtual environments (VR).
You will be able to develop skills in volumetric data capture and investigate and realise radical project proposals through collaborative interactions with peers and industry.
You will upskill in the latest advancements in AI, Web3, digital fashion, metaverse asset realisation, AR, VR and XR.
You will be trained on state-of-the-art software such as Generative AI software (Stable Diffusion), CLO3D, MD, Adobe Substance Suite, Blender, Cinema4D, Unity, Rhino and relevant AR, VR and XR platforms.
Modules covered in semester 1:
In semester 2, you will work through various prototypes, case studies and experiment with digital workflows.
You will receive direct staff and industry feedback in a process designed to rapidly define your final project proposal.
You will focus on a key target market and realise an outcome that is both innovative and realistic, as well as considered from both an ethical and sustainable standpoint.
You will receive 1-2-1 sessions with digital design tutors and industry representatives to assist with project sampling, workflow and ideation as well as to provide you with constructive feedback throughout the design development process.
Modules covered in semester 2:
In semester 3, you will be required to complete a statement of intent and a proposal covering your aims, objectives and timeline for your Final Major Project (FMP).
In close consultation with tutors and industry experts, you will work towards an outcome focused on disruptive industry impact.
Your work will demonstrate design and digital innovation as well as showcasing your technical abilities over several digital programs of platforms.
The semester will culminate in a final presentation to major brands, industry and press in partnership with London Fashion Week.
Modules covered in semester 3:
The course is uniquely tailored for students wishing to pursue a career within:
If you wish to study this course, we will need to see examples of previous art, new media and/or design work that showcases your suitability for the course.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/mba-fashion-business-and-entrepreneurship:
Study in a collaborative environment, utilise the latest technology and work with industry on real-world briefs.
If you want to drive innovation and find solutions to global issues within the world of fashion, then this course could be for you.
those keen to enhance their fashion business skills and work side-by-side with industry.
This course puts strategy and innovation at the forefront of fashion business and will provide you with advanced knowledge in this area.
The programme has been uniquely designed for all those who are interested in pursuing a career within the fashion industry.
You will study among the UK’s finest creatives in a design led, technological and business environment and participate in a collaborative working environment.
During the course, you will develop your leadership and management skills and gain experience through simulated tasks which emulate real-world practice.
A great fashion entrepreneur combines creativity with strong communication skills and business acumen.
They possess a range of skills to help them thrive in a fast-paced environment.
A successful fashion entrepreneur is both business savvy and highly knowledgeable about what is trending within the fashion industry.
They will be able to identify business opportunities and make sound decisions for the health and future of the business.
They will be perceptive, and be able to predict future trends within the fashion industry, as well as have a deep understanding of the manufacturing and retailing processes.
Fashion entrepreneurs have the power to challenge traditional beauty standards and promote diversity and inclusivity in their designs.
By representing a wide range of body types, ethnicities, and identities, they help to foster a more open-minded and forward-thinking fashion landscape.
A competent, fashion entrepreneur will possess strong marketing skills.
They will be able to expertly understand the best ways to reach the target audience and how to execute successful marketing campaigns in order to do so.
They will also have the latest marketing tools and technology to help drive traffic and convert customers.
They will also be highly versatile and able to confidently move between different projects, possessing skills in everything from copywriting to social media management and from photography to managing financials.
In recent years, consumers have become more conscious of sustainability and ethical practices in the fashion industry.
Successful entrepreneurs embrace these values, incorporating environmentally friendly and socially responsible practices into their business.
In the digital age, having a strong online presence and understanding social media marketing are crucial for reaching and engaging with the target audience effectively.
The best fashion entrepreneurs never stop learning and evolving.
They seek feedback, attend industry events, and invest in their own personal and professional development.
Fashion entrepreneurs are vital to the industry's growth, evolution, and positive influence on society.
They drive creativity, promote inclusivity and sustainability, and act as trendsetters and influencers, shaping the way people engage with fashion.
Through semester 1 and semester 2, you will be exposed to the global landscape of fashion and learn the research methods which will underpin your learning.
You will learn the fundamental methodologies and practice of research and how this will frame your practice.
Topics focusing on strategy and leadership will inform your practice and help to develop your entrepreneurial skills.
You will explore brand innovation as well as financial management and will have the opportunity to work on a project exploring how digital acceleration is supported by data.
Modules covered in semester 1
Modules covered in semester 2
In semester 3, you will work to resolve a long-standing business research problem and develop a final project which aims to support existing research findings, as well as your own.
This can include a commissioned industry report or an entrepreneurial business concept, which includes a business plan and pitch proposing a new business start-up concept.
Modules covered in semester 3
First, upper second-class honours degree, lower second-class honours (or equivalent non-UK qualifications) in a relevant subject, or an equivalent professional qualification in a related subject.
We welcome suitably-qualified applicants who are able to demonstrate a good level of skills in areas associated with visual communication.
This may include but is not limited to: graphic design, branding, art direction, advertising, motion graphics, information design, data visualisation, UX/UI design and AR/VR experience design.
A PDF portfolio of visual work is required.
Whether you are a UK resident or a non-EEA/EU national, you will need to apply directly to Ravensbourne via our Online Applicant Portal .
For International fee-paying students starting this course in September, there is a scholarship of £5,000 which will be automatically applied to your offer.
Please note, this scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with any other scholarships offered at Ravensbourne.
There are no portfolio requirements for this master's course.
To prepare for your academic interview, please make sure you review your CV and personal statement.
It is important that you know why you would like to study the course and how this course can benefit you in the future.
It is also worth doing researching a current industry that inspired you to do this course.
Lastly, you should think about your aims or your area for research in both theory and practice if accepted on the Master's course.
This is also a good opportunity for you to ask questions that you may have about the course.
Creative Lab is Ravensbourne’s own in-house design and media production studio.
Working across creative commercial projects, not-for-profit third-sector briefs and internal design and content requirements, Creative Lab combines professional design expertise with employment opportunities on projects for our students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-illustration:
illustrators who want to diversify their professional practices through exploring narrative communication techniques
Our Illustration master's degree course will help you to engagingly convey complex information to effectively tell stories.
Experimenting with an array of storytelling and narrative methods, you will master the roles of illustration and how to take advantage of immersive technologies.
In a recent survey, our postgraduate courses scored 91% student satisfaction for creativity and design, and 93% satisfaction overall*
* Source: Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, 2020
Visual studies relating to healthy eating strategies/ resources for Children at Key Stage 1.
Visual studies relating to healthy eating strategies/ resources for Children at Key Stage 1 (ideation sheet).
Visual narrative studies, dealing with themes of Mental Health and Self- Care.
Narrative related experimental studies in preparation for a graphic novel dealing with the theme of a dystopian society.
Studies for an educational related visual narrative dealing a Queen of the Mughal Dynasty.
Illustrative studies inspired by the work of H.P Lovecraft.
Educational animation related frames dealing with the theme of ‘The Sisters of the Immaculate Hearts’ (Context: 1960s California).
Experimental illustrative studies relating to ‘Drag’ culture.
Narrative/ information flow related experiments dealing with traditional child related stories/ tales.
Throughout your MA Illustration course in London, you will explore the roles of illustration today and its wide-ranging professional applications moving forward.
You will experiment across narrative and storytelling methods, which will enable you to present and reposition information in a strategic, accessible and  engaging fashion.
You will examine complex knowledge, data and information and bring it to life with empathy, which will free you to tell stories that need to be told and ensure that no message is lost in translation.
Join the new MA Illustration course where creative minds prosper.
By taking on consultancy and organisational roles, as well as developing your own illustration practice, this master's programme is designed to make you truly industry ready.
I was drawn to Ravensbourne because it was clear that they value interdisciplinary practices and collaboration.
I feel inspired and supported by their creative and innovative stance within the industry.
The MA Illustration course has been a space to discover how I work and how I can bring intention to what I do.”
Sila Sobaci , MA Illustration student
To prepare for your academic interview, please make sure you review your portfolio, CV, and personal statement.
It is important that you know why you would like to study the course / programme and how this course can benefit you in the future.
As it crosses so many creative boundaries, there are unparalleled opportunities for contemporary illustrators to work with time-based, sequential and narrative forms including graphic design, advertising and publishing, fashion and product design, animation and games design.
"I have the chance to share ideas with inspiring people from around the world.
Being guided towards a deeper comprehension of my own methodology as an illustrator has helped me to understand how I perceive, think and illustrate.
It has been about exploring what I can do and growing in a more unique way.””
One of our talented students, Emma Cheesman has had her artwork published by Londnr magazine after being shortlisted in a competition for professional artists.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-information-technology-management:
This course blends technical, managerial and ethical perspectives to address challenges in data privacy, intellectual property, and cybersecurity.
Students explore frameworks for protecting digital assets, ensuring compliance with evolving regulations, and fostering responsible innovation.
By combining practical expertise and digital rights, graduates are equipped to lead digital integrity safeguarding in a variety of industries.
This course combines business and information technology management principles, with a focus on how technology can be applied to optimise operations.
Graduates will be equipped to lead digital infrastructure and transformation strategies in all industries including finance, manufacturing, retail, media production, creative agencies, and other businesses.
The programme emphasises the management of technological resources, cybersecurity, and  governance, enabling professionals to lead organisations in a digital world where innovative technology is key to success.
This course uniquely integrates technical, managerial, and ethical perspectives to address challenges in data privacy, intellectual property, and cybersecurity.
Students explore the protection of digital assets, compliance with evolving regulations, and best practice for responsible innovation.
By combining hands-on expertise with a deep understanding of digital rights, graduates are equipped to navigate and lead in industries where safeguarding digital integrity is paramount.
The course prepares students to take on leadership roles in IT management by equipping them with the skills necessary to strategies, secure, manage, and innovate IT solutions that enhance business performance.
Graduates will be able to confidently align IT initiatives with business strategies, lead projects through effective project management and change management, and apply advanced problem-solving skills to meet organisational IT challenges in diverse sectors.
developing professionals wishing to gain the skills and expertise to lead digital infrastructure and transformation strategies.
If you’re aiming for a career in information and digital technology management or consulting, this course might be for you.
The degree course will include multiple modules designed to ensure graduates leave with an all-encompassing education in IT and business management.
Graduates from this course can advance into roles including, but not limited to, IT manager, systems analyst, enterprise architect and/or cybersecurity manager.
Potential sectors for graduates include creative industries, technology, consulting, enterprise IT management, or further study.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-international-fashion-marketing:
If you want to take a theoretical, data-driven, and practice-based approach to understanding the fast-paced and dynamic world of fashion, then this course could be for you.
Take an in-depth look at the key components of international fashion marketing and examine a broad range of emerging digital processes.
Gain master's level skills in the use of data measurement in the context of international fashion marketing
Learn to identify how brands are supported through strategic marketing
Improve your future employment prospects through simulated tasks emulating real world practice
Enhance your professional network by meeting people with similar interests and different skill-sets
Be part of a tech-literate, creative community.
those looking to further enhance their academic and practical fashion marketing skillsets.
During the duration of this course, you will examine your skills in both innovation and strategy using a combination of research and development techniques.
Through a series of business lectures and classes led by a mixture of industry experts and academics, you will develop the broad skillset necessary to progress in the world of international fashion marketing.
An integral part of understanding success in international fashion marketing is data.
On this course, you will learn how to measure data and metrics and use this insight to inform future developments and measure the effectiveness of emerging technologies.
This insight can also be to identify new platforms to support with future marketing efforts.
Marketing within the fashion industry is the process of creating and implementing a marketing plan for a fashion brand or related company.
In order to implement a successful marketing campaign, first it is important to understand consumer behaviour and preferences in order to best cater to the customer's needs and to market products that will be in high demand.
Marketing in the fashion industry combines the likes of advertising, promotion, and sales.
Most marketing in the fashion industry is done through various forms of advertising.
This can range from traditional print media to digital media like social media.
Marketing also includes developing relationships with key distributors and retailers to secure the best possible distribution channels for the product.
Through semester 1 and semester 2, you will be exposed to the fundamentals of international fashion marketing as well as the intricacies of the dynamic business environment.
You will explore research methods alongside core subjects, which will enable you to understand the methodologies and practice of research and how this will frame and inform your practice.
You will learn how to support brands through strategic marketing and develop data-driven marketing campaigns.
In semester 3, you will work on a commissioned industry report or an international marketing report which culminates your studies and encompasses innovation, strategy and research.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-international-finance:
This course is designed for individuals aspiring to excel in the fast-paced and competitive world of global finance.
This comprehensive course provides students with foundational principles in financial theory, quantitative analysis, and strategic decision-making, with each discipline taught within a global context.
This course is designed for individuals aspiring to excel in the dynamic and competitive world of global finance.
This comprehensive course provides students with a robust foundation in financial theory, quantitative analysis, and strategic decision-making, all within an international context.
In an increasingly interconnected global economy, understanding the complexities of international markets, foreign exchange, and cross-border investments is essential.
The course equips students with the analytical tools and practical skills needed to assess global financial risks, evaluate investment opportunities, and develop effective financial strategies for multinational corporations and financial institutions.
Importantly, fintech as a core growth area will be integrated as relevant across the course.
Students will graduate from this course with a keen understanding of the global financial environment through a thorough exploration of markets, institutions and frameworks.
Use of fundamental analytical skills plays a core part of the course, harnessing quantitative methods, modeling and data to drive decision-making and analysis.
Finally, students will engage with real-world activity and industry-relevant projects, using theoretical expertise in practice and increasing their employability along the way.
anyone looking to develop a deep understanding of the interconnected global economy through investment strategy, international financial markets and risk management.
The course will equip students with the requisite knowledge and experience in global finance through a variety of thorough modules.
Graduates from this course will be suitable for a variety of roles in the finance sector including, but not limited to, finance manager, portfolio management, financial consulting, financial research, merger and acquisitions advisor and/or financial policy advisor.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-luxury-brand-management:
Our master's in Luxury Brand Management will enable you to blend design thinking and innovation models to redefine the luxury sector for the customer of tomorrow.
Armed with customer market data, you will engineer new ways to influence the relationship between luxury brands, high-value services, consumer and market behaviours.
In a recent survey, our postgraduate courses scored 91% student satisfaction for creativity and design, and 93% satisfaction overall.*
* Source: *Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, 2020
In our unique MA Luxury Brand Management course in London, you will marry creativity and innovation models with an in-depth understanding of the success factors behind smart luxury and the products, services and experiences that have arisen as a result.
With the advent of new technology, luxury markets are more competitive and complex than ever.
You will explore the context and influences behind these shifts and help redefine what luxury means in a global context and in the era of Industry 4.0.
You will learn to effectively analyse customer market data and really get under the skin of the luxury customer of today and tomorrow.
Do you wish to master the tools and strategies to thrive as a decisive leader in the global luxury market?
Once you’ve graduated from our one-year Luxury Brand Management degree, you’ll have everything you need to launch and accelerate a successful career in the world of luxury, whether it's in fashion, travel, wellbeing or other areas of future luxury.
experienced professionals looking to understand the global success factors of smart luxury
Develop knowledge and research on the luxury sector, especially emergent markets in the BRIC countries, as well as current lead sectors in Europe and North America
Develop a framework for designing a unique brand concept and identity supported by a branding strategy for generating commercial, social and environmental value
Explore the context, scale, scope and shift in strategies within the luxury landscape – its territories, economics, design style and experiential influences
Define ‘future luxury’ in the 21st century in terms of products, services and experience
After studying for your MA in Luxury Brand Management, you will:
A lower second-class honours (a 2:2, or equivalent non-UK qualifications) in a relevant subject, or an equivalent professional qualification in a related subject.
Whether you are a UK resident or an international application, you will need to apply directly to Ravensbourne via our Online Applicant Portal .
These are the types of luxury brand management jobs you could potentially move into after graduation:
Industry leaders discuss creativity, technology and innovation
Paul Sternberg, Director of Postgraduate Studies, gives you a warm welcome to the In Conversation series.
Speakers from across the creative spectrum talk to him about how they've overcome obstacles to turn ideas into reality and shape their own futures.
Watch more talks now

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-project-management:
If you want to pursue a career in project management or want to enhance your existing skillset, then this course could be for you.
Throughout this Master’s degree, you will gain a deeper understanding of the principles and practices of project management, from project initiation to closure.
In today's fast-paced and competitive world, effective project management is essential for achieving successful outcomes.
Throughout this course, you will explore various project management methodologies and techniques, and learn to apply them to different project types and contexts.
You’ll develop essential project management skills, such as planning, scheduling, budgeting, risk management, quality management, and stakeholder management.
Through case studies, simulations, and hands-on exercises, you will learn how to analyse and solve real-world project management problems.
The course is taught by industry experts and offers opportunities for real-world project experience through partnerships with leading companies.
both seasoned professionals and newcomers keen to learn the knowledge, skills and tools necessary to manage complex projects with confidence
When you graduate from this course, you could work in the following job roles:

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/msc-software-engineering:
This course uniquely blends advanced software development practices with creative technology and innovation.
From financial services to manufacturing, and from gaming to virtual reality, industries worldwide depend on innovative software solutions.
This programme encapsulates Ravensbourne’s commitment to blending technical expertise with creativity, preparing students to design software solutions across diverse sectors.
This course provides a distinctive combination of advanced software development practices with creative technology and innovation.
From financial services to manufacturing, and from gaming to virtual reality, industries worldwide depend on effective software engineering solutions.
This course reflects Ravensbourne's dedication to combining technical expertise with creativity, preparing students to design software solutions across diverse sectors.
What sets this programme apart is a distinctive emphasis on industry-led practical activities and links with creative environments such as media, gaming, virtual reality and digital storytelling.
By encouraging innovation in software development practices, this course enables graduates to drive progress in all industries while upholding Ravensbourne’s rich pedigree of excellence in creative technologies.
This programme represents an atypical approach to computing education.
Ravensbourne’s approach does not concentrate solely on technical and theoretical aspects of software engineering.
This course also  incorporates hands-on projects and exercises based on case studies, as well as strong links with other creative and innovative courses.
This approach means you will be harnessing more than just technical expertise, but also collaborating and problem-solving.
With advanced technology training, exposure to various certifications and a strong emphasis on design thinking, you will graduate with the tech expertise and creative vision to shape the future of software engineering across diverse industries.
aspiring software engineers and software developers wishing to deliver innovative software solutions in  a variety of domains.
If you’re looking for a course at the intersection of computing and creativity, this could be for you.
Your degree will consist of a variety of modules spanning software design, AI and machine learning, business strategy and more.
Graduates from this course can pursue careers including, but not limited to, software developer/engineer, systems architect, DevOps engineer and game developer.
Potential industries span from software houses, financial sector, retail, manufacturing, gaming and creative media, cloud computing and academia.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/commercial/ravensbourne-named-one-best-universities-postgraduate-study:
We are delighted to reveal that Ravensbourne University London has been ranked 2nd place for overall postgraduate satisfaction.
We’re thrilled that we have achieved 93% satisfaction for our postgraduate students.
Ravensbourne also scored highly across 7 sub-categories when compared against 68 UK institutions.
The Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) is the UK’s only sector-wide survey that reaches out to taught Postgraduate students who have completed a masters, postgraduate certificate or diploma course.
The survey paints an accurate picture of the student experience across areas such as teaching and learning, assessments and skills development.
Ravensbourne achieved a host of positive results from the PTES 2020 survey.
As well as being named the 2nd best postgraduate institution, we achieved a tremendous 100% overall satisfaction rate for our Learning & Teaching and were ranked 1st out of 41 institutions in the Education and Teaching subject sector.
We have repeatedly outperformed the sector benchmark, achieving 91% postgraduate satisfaction against a Design and Creative subject benchmark of 77%.
Our Pro-Vice Chancellor Research, Enterprise and Innovation, Professor Lawrence Zeegen commented, ‘Our students’ experience is extremely important to us.
We’re incredibly proud that the hard work and dedication of our staff has been reflected in our PTES results.
We offer an excellent, specialist postgraduate experience that has been recognised amongst the very best of Higher Education institutions across the country.’
You can find out more about our postgraduate courses here.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/architecture-and-interiors-degrees/professional-body-information-arb-riba:
The Architects Registration Board (ARB) is the statutory regulator for architects in the UK and sets the education and registration requirements for anyone wishing to practise and use the title ‘architect’ in the UK.
They do this by accrediting qualifications required for registration as an architect.
The ARB is currently revising its requirements for registration and is removing from its requirements the award of an undergraduate qualification in architecture.
The intention of the ARB is that they will no longer be prescribing undergraduate architecture qualifications from 31 December 2027.
Currently, and up until December 2027, UK graduates wishing to register as an architect will need to have an ARB accredited Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 qualification, alongside relevant work experience.
From 31 December 2027 ARB will only accredit master’s level qualifications and the professional diploma which follows.
This means that from 2028 an undergraduate qualification in architecture will not be required for registration as an architect in the UK.
The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) will continue to validate architecture qualifications at Parts 1, 2 and 3 – these are terms developed by the RIBA and its three-part validation pathway forms the typical route to RIBA Chartered Membership.
The integrated foundation year courses allow students to progress on to the corresponding undergraduate programmes, which are currently prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), providing exemption for RIBA Part 1 examination.
The ARB has announced its intention to retire the accreditation of all Part 1 qualifications at all institutions by the end of December 2027.
Students starting the four-year course in September 2025 will graduate in June 2029.
Students will therefore graduate after the proposed end date for ARB prescription at Part 1 and their degree will therefore not be a prescribed ARB award.
This will not impact any student’s ability to complete qualification as a UK registered architect, as the ARB will continue to accredit academic awards at the master’s level only.
Therefore, upon successfully completing the course students will be able to apply to any routes validated as Part 2.
The BA (Hons) Architecture and BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures courses are currently, and will continue to be, subject to validation by the RIBA (Royal Institute of British Architects) at Part 1.
The RIBA will continue to validate architecture qualifications at Parts 1, 2 and 3 – these are terms developed by the RIBA and its three-part validation pathway forms the typical route to RIBA Chartered Membership.
The BA (Hons) Architecture and BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures courses are currently prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), providing exemption for RIBA Part 1 examination.
Students starting the three-year course in September 2025 will graduate in June 2028.
This will not impact any students' ability to complete qualification as a UK registered architect, as the ARB will continue to accredit academic awards at the master’s level only.
The BA (Hons) Architecture and BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures courses are currently, and will continue to be, subject to validation by the RIBA (Royal Institute of British Architects) at Part 1.
No changes

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/disability-support/directory:
Below is a directory of organisations supporting disability and mental health in the workplace.
Disability Rights UK guide on education, training, benefits and employment options for disabled people.
EmployAbility was established in 2006 as the not-for-profit organisation dedicated to assisting students and graduates with all disabilities, including dyslexia or long term health conditions, into employment.
Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion is the UK's leading employer network covering all aspects of equality and inclusion in the workplace.
TUC Disability Rights is a list of disability rights in relation to employment FAQs.
If a disability or a physical or mental health condition that makes it hard to do your job you can talk to your employer about changes they must make in the workplace, further to this Access to Work funding may available for extra help.
Inclusion London supports over 70 Deaf and Disabled Organisations working across every London borough.
Through these organisations, our reach extends to over 70,000 Disabled Londoners.
Disability Confident accreditation means that an employer is taking action to ensure that people with disabilities and long term health conditions feel supported, engaged and able to fulfil their potential in the workplace.
Creative Skillset - Diversity provides information and directory on diversity in the media, design & digital sectors.
Creative Diversity Network is great for raising the profile and providing analysis on what broadcasters are doing to address the diversity agenda in the UK.
Shape Arts is a disability led arts organisation working to provide opportunities and support for disabled artists, as well as disabled individuals wanting to work in the arts and cultural sector.
Mindful Employer provide access to information and support for staff and employees who experience stress, anxiety, depression or other mental health conditions.
Shaw Trust is one of the largest third sector providers of public services in the UK working to help people achieve their employment, health and learning ambitions.
Remploy aims to improve the lives of disabled people by creating equality in employment.
It works to provide access to sustainable employment and careers for people with a disability or mental health condition.
Central UK government information on disability employment rights.
Government funded schemes to help you look for work if you’re disabled.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/prospective-students:
Currently reading: Section overview
Below you’ll find tailored information for future students of Ravensbourne University London, whether you’re currently weighing up your options or all set to join us.
Read our portfolio and interview advice for undergraduate students or further education students.
For tailored information for international students wishing to apply for a course at Ravensbourne University London, please consult our dedicated international student section .
To apply to Ravensbourne University London via UCAS, please visit our dedicated webpage for guidance, where applications must be completed before the respective deadlines that are provided.
The UCAS deadline to apply via the main scheme was on 31 January 2024.
Please note, however, that we still accept applications after this deadline, via UCAS or directly through our website .
We recommend you apply as soon as possible as courses may fill up.
Read these useful tips for writing your personal statement .
Check our interview information and top tips to be ready for your interview.
Check our portfolio and showreel information and guidance .
Find out about the recommended laptop specifications for each course.
While we don't have halls of residence on campus, we work with several partners to offer students access to accommodation.
Students apply for accommodation individually through our partner network.
Ravensbourne University London works with over 12 different partners to offer students a home away from home.
Check out the list of partners and their individual room prices .
Ravensbourne also offers support with renting privately, finding guarantors, and homestay.
Please get in touch with our Student Services to find out more.
The Student Services are available for all students and offer a wide range of support , including academic support through our study skills department .
Ravensbourne offers expansive study areas tailored to our students' needs.
These include our well-equipped library located within our main building, alongside an entire floor dedicated to study space in our second building .
Information on fees and funding , as well as scholarships and bursaries, can be found under the respective level of study.
Yes, you can work part-time while studying at Ravensbourne.
Our timetables vary from 2 to 4 days per week, offering flexibility for part-time employment.
However, please check your course timetable as schedules differ.
Societies are important for meeting new people and socialising to bring fun into student life.
Check out the full list and further information of our vast range of societies from religion to hobbies available at Ravensbourne.
The Students Union runs multiple events aimed at bringing students together and ensuring you have a great time at Ravensbourne.
These events span from on-campus gatherings to online activities, all curated to enrich student life.
In addition to supporting students' engagement in student life, the university offers access to all of our industry-standard creative facilities regardless of your degree.
This includes but is not limited to the Printshop , Kit store , Atelier , Prototyping suite , TV and Sound Studio , and more.
We offer career advice and industry liaison through student support services which provide a student with the tools and advice needed to navigate through the professional world during and post-study.
The team is always ready to help students regardless of the year graduated, as well as offering one-to-one meetings to students who have graduated within the last 3 years.
Ravensbourne encourages work placements, experiences and internship in order to gain industry insight.
To do this, our students are ultimately responsible for finding and securing a work opportunity, whilst being offered support from the university .
However, the students and faculty made me feel like I was at home and the positive attitudes and mindsets made me realise I had nothing to worry about
”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/information/current-staff-and-students/student-services/learning-support-and-development:
We welcome learners with learning difficulties or disabilities, and we are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all.
If needed, you can get support before and during the interview stage, ongoing support throughout your course and if you are studying an undergraduate degree , we can advise on Disabled Students Allowance (DSA), including help with your application.
We always respond to individual learner requirements flexibly and effectively.
If you wish to find out about our services or discuss your needs, please contact the Student Services Team in confidence.
T: +44 (0)20 3040 3501 E: [email protected]
For further information about the fund, guidance on making an application and other financial support, please visit their webpage
However, the College can offer some Study Skills sessions and some basic equipment.
You may also wish to look up the following helpful guides for prospective students:
Evidence of disability or health condition
If you have a Specific Learning Difficulty (Dyslexia, Dyspraxia, ADHD/ADD etc.) and had a diagnostic assessment after your 16th Birthday, please contact us so that we can advise you on applying for funding (Disabled Students Allowance/DSA).
If your diagnosis occurred before your 16th birthday, you will need to organise another assessment.
The sooner this takes place, the more likely it will be that support can be set up for you before your course begins.
For all other disabilities and long term health conditions, you will need medical evidence or a report from a suitably qualified specialist to support your funding application
What should I do if I suspect I may have a disability or learning difficulty?
If you are unsure but think you have a disability, we would encourage you to contact Student Services as early as possible, prior to starting your course or at your earliest opportunity once your studies commence (although this can be at any point during your course).
We will offer you an informal discussion regarding your needs and study at Ravensbourne .
To assist you with disclosure and providing you have declared on your application form that you have a disability or learning difficulty, Student Services will contact you by email with a Student Services Checklist prior to enrolment.
We want to support the particular learning requirements of dyslexic students at Ravensbourne and can do so in a variety of ways:
Please contact Student Services for more information, help and advice.
Ravensbourne runs a series of workshops for its learners designed to support the development for reading, writing and academic skills during the course of their studies.
Sessions are held throughout the year and are freely available to all learners.
We welcome feedback of our Study Skills service.
If you would like to comment, please complete the online feedback form.
This form can be completed anonymously if you wish.
We offer a professional and discreet counselling service to help overcome any problems you might face in your academic or personal life.
Whether you have emotional, financial or practical problems we can provide a supportive network of people who will listen and help.
For all student support enquiries please contact Student Services via email or phone +44 (0)20 3040 3 501 .
The quiet space, located on level three, is for the use of individuals, rather than groups, for prayer, reflection and quiet time.
It is available for everyone, whatever faith or none.
Students and staff are invited to use the space for their own private prayer, meditation or reflection.
Private study is not permitted.
Students and staff are free to display notices giving details of where to find local places of worship and to display posters advertising religious or other cultural events.
Notices may be removed by the Head of Student Services if they are deemed to be unacceptable in their content.
Guidelines for the quiet space
Please respect this space by using it only for its intended purpose and observing the following:
Storage cupboard for personal items
The quiet space is simply furnished for the use of all.
No religious imagery is permanently displayed.
Users may, however, use religious items such as prayer-mats, icons, statues, etc., to assist with their devotions.
Students and staff may use the cupboard to store personal effects (such as those mentioned above), when these items are not being used.
Any property left here is, of course, stored at its owner's own risk.
Please ensure you remove any personal items when you leave the space, or store them in the cupboard.
Contact
The quiet space is overseen by the Head of Student Services.
If you have any comments or feedback, please contact [email protected] .
Prayer Space and Community Room: Located in the Aperture Building on Greenwich Peninsula
The Prayer Space provides a venue for faith groups to meet for prayer and worship and is available for booking by faith groups for their own prayer or worship activities.
The Prayer Space is also open every day for people to drop in for prayer and reflection.
The Community Room provides a facility for activities or events which build up the local community and is available for booking by individuals or groups for such activities or events.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-apply/further-education-applications:
Currently reading: How to apply
To apply online for one of our Further Education courses starting in September 2025, please select from the list below.
Please note that first-time users will need to create an account in order to apply.
We have now simplified the process for further education applicants and no longer hold in-person interviews.
You will however, still be required to provide a portfolio.
Once we receive your course application, we will contact you and ask you to upload your portfolio digitally.
This will then be reviewed by a course lecturer.
Explore helpful advice on submitting your portfolio.
Find more information about preparing your interview and portfolio.
Get in touch with a member of our friendly admissions team.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/how-apply/undergraduate-applications:
Equal consideration is given to all applications received by the appropriate deadline.
We also accept applications after the published deadline date(s) but please note that places may be limited on some courses.
Applications for BA (Hons), BSc (Hons) courses need to be directed online via UCAS .
UCAS codes and entry requirements for each course are listed on the individual course pages.
The UCAS website will guide you through the process, which is simple and easy to complete.
Alternatively, you can apply through your school or college using the UCAS system.
Please always make sure you check the deadline dates for applying.
If you are successful with your application you may be asked to attend an interview and show some of your work.
We have put together some advice and what to expect on an interview here.
Please check the course page for your chosen course to see if an interview or portfolio is required.
Here's how to apply to your course at Ravensbourne.
Please note: Not all our courses require an interview or portfolio.
If you're not sure, please check the course page for details.
If no interview or portfolio is required, please skip step 4.
Home students Submit your application to Ravensbourne via UCAS.
Overseas students Submit your application via UCAS and add Ravensbourne as one of your choices, or apply directly via the application link on your chosen course page
Receive confirmation that you have submitted your application, and your applicant portal login details.
Our admissions team will assess your qualifications, personal statement, and anything else you have submitted as part of your application.
Please note: An interview and portfolio is not required for every course, if the course you are applying to does not require you to submit a portfolio or attend an interview, please skip the next step and go straight to step 5.
Please note: If the course you are applying to does not require a portfolio or interview please skip this step and go straight to step 5.
If your application is successful, you will receive an offer which you can view on both UCAS and your Ravensbourne applicant portal.
Your offer may be conditional or unconditional depending on whether you have already met our entry requirements or if your qualifications are still in progress.
Unconditional offers
You may receive an unconditional offer in cases where, through your application, you have demonstrated strong academic potential, creativity and motivation for your chosen course.
It’s important that you keep working hard on your current studies.
Future employers and graduate schemes often consider your full academic history in addition to your degree results.
You can choose to accept your offer and make Ravensbourne your firm choice via UCAS.
The process is made simple by using UCAS Hub:
If you applied via UCAS and are studying UK qualifications, we will usually receive your grades automatically.
Otherwise, you’ll need to send us your final grades and certificates.
If you are an international student and you require a CAS, we’ll invite you to upload the required information to our CAS platform and provide instructions for paying your CAS deposit.
Once you receive your CAS, you can apply for your visa.
After your visa has been issued, you can travel to the UK.
If you are applying for a course which requires you to show us your portfolio, you don’t need to share it with us until 48 hours before your interview.
That means you still have plenty of time to perfect it before you meet us.
Check the Specifics section on the course page to see the portfolio requirements for your chosen course.
We are also offering portfolio and showreel clinics, which can provide you with tailored advice on how to improve your portfolio in preparation for your interview.
Sign up for an online portfolio advice session You can also find useful downloadable resources such as interview tips, portfolio guidance, careers advice and more on our Make it Ravensbourne page.
Helpful resources
Looking for information on how to apply to Ravensbourne University London as an international student?
We have dedicated advice available on the process.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/animation-and-games:
Are you ready to push the boundaries to thrive in the world of animation and illustration?
Perhaps you are an aspiring visual storyteller who wishes to hone your craft and excel in your career?
At Ravensbourne, you can do all this and more as you level up your skills and learn with industry on our animation and illustration courses.
Working on contemporary, challenging and future-facing projects, our students develop creative techniques through a range of digital mediums, gaining hands-on experience, utilising industry-level equipment and software.
BA (Hons) Animation 3D
Showreel of student work between 2022-23
Vytautas Puišys Animation now BA (Hons) 3D Animation
Afolabi Fagunwa BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication
Amy Hensley BA (Hons) Animation
Annis-Caine Woodland BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication
Adam Headley BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication
Joe Healey BA (Hons) Animation
Develop cutting-edge creative techniques and have unparalleled opportunities to work on live briefs with big brands and industry experts.
Allow our experts to sharpen your natural talent and turn your passion into a profession.
I've watched all of these wonderful animations from the very talented Ravensbourne students for A British History In Weather and they are lovely - moving, subtle and beautifully done.
What a wonderful partnership.”

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/architecture-and-built-environment:
Re-imagine the world around you to enhance the places and spaces we inhabit.
Harness your imagination to create structures that influence communities, shape society and support the environment.
Explore and expand your skill set to make a positive impact on the world around you.
Across our architecture, interiors and landscape courses, you will gain a diverse education as you develop your own creative vision and refine your design skills.
Explore the role that architecture, interiors and landscape plays in shaping our society and communities.
Lola Moro BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures
Robbie Michael BA (Hons) Architecture
Ediz Ali Ladywell Gardens BA (Hons) Architecture
During your course, you will build an industry-standard portfolio to ensure you leave university career-ready.
Those working in the field can hold positions in a broad range of roles from architects to urban developers and interior designers.
Our BA (Hons) Architecture and BA (Hons) Interior Design Environment Architectures courses are accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), providing exemption for RIBA Part 1 examination.
The course has really pushed me to think and design outside of my comfort zone, improved my creative thinking skills, as well as being open to new ideas.
I have learned so much about the impact architecture has on the space and communities around us and how we can help solve the real issues we will face in the near future.”
Layla Sreeraman , BA (Hons) Architecture graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/business-and-management:
Currently reading: Why study Business at Ravensbourne?
When you study a business or management degree at Ravensbourne, you'll develop a skill-set that provides you with both the technical know-how and creative confidence to take your next steps into employment or further study.
You’ll benefit from Ravensbourne’s strong industry links.
Students have worked with a wide range of high-profile companies, including: Apple, Barclays, the BBC, the European Space Agency, Marks & Spencer, Museum of London, the Royal Shakespeare Company, Samsung and many more.
Graduates from our business and management courses can find meaningful work in a broad range of roles and sectors including the likes of business start-ups, buying, marketing, advertising, public relations, events and e-commerce.
Engaging with Ravensbourne students as a guest lecturer is always a highlight for me.
It’s impressive to see how the university is at the forefront of industry and professional practice, while also nurturing emotional wellbeing and intelligence in its students – qualities increasingly valued in today’s corporate world.
These young minds are already building their empathetic leadership skills, something many senior executives I’ve worked with wish they had learned earlier.”
Davide Pagnotta , Co-founder and CEO, Wise Humanity

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/computing:
Are you an aspiring game maker who wants to create imaginative games through a variety of mediums?
Perhaps you are a master programmer who is eager to learn the latest cutting-edge skills in computer science?
You can kickstart your creative career in computing and games in one of our dynamic and innovative courses at Ravensbourne.
We live in a world where new technologies play an increasingly important role across the economy and society.
And as a young person, there has never been a more exciting time to embark in a career in games or computing.
The 2022 UK Games Industry Census reported that the industry’s workforce is brimming with fresh talent, with 61% of workers aged 35 or under.*
* Source: ukie.org.uk/census2022
Bradley O'Neill
BA (Hons) Games Development
Olawale Okunrinboye BSc (Hons) Creative Computing
Alejandro Leon
Kristiyan Genev BSc (Hons) Games Development
Bradley O'Neill BSc (Hons) Games Development
From designing characters and environments to learning to protect businesses from sophisticated cyber-attacks, you will graduate from one of our multidisciplinary gaming and computing degrees with an enviable portfolio of work.
Ravensbourne really allows you to be whatever you want to be.
It gives you the creative freedom to choose your own path and hone in on what you’re really good at, and prepares you for the world outside of education.
I say just jump in.
This is definitely the best place if you’re a creative.”
Bradley O’Neill , BA (Hons) Games Development lecturer and Ravensbourne graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/design:
Passionate about the natural world around us to the society we live in, our designers develop the right skills to make a difference.
With a diverse array of courses, our welcoming environment fosters collaboration and industry integration.
Our new purpose-built studio encourages strategic thinking, problem-solving, and multidisciplinary teamwork.
Join us to shape the world as a changemaker through design’s pervasive influence on everything we touch and experience.
Juliana Koflere What Really Happened to Acid House BA (Hons) Graphic Design
Sam De Leval 991 Remix BA (Hons) Motion Graphics
Leleese Francis-Lewis, Ravinia Rose Ekwealor KitKat Have a break BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design
Kymani N'Tim Johnson, Adaora Ekette ,Joshua Lam, Maya Chamberlain Anstead Zineguin BA (Hons) Graphic Design
Em Lemaitre Downton BA (Hons) Product Design
Dan Campbell BA (Hons) Digital Content Creation
Harry Ashley Leftwich ARchive BA (Hons) User-Experience and User-Interface (UX/UI) Design
Motion Graphics showreel 2023
There’s never been a better time to take your first steps.
According to a 2022 report by the UK Design Council*, there are nearly two million people working in design related jobs across the UK.
This contributes around £97.4 billion to the UK economy.
* Source: Source: Design Week – read the article at bit.ly/design-value-research
You definitely won’t get the industry links that are available at Ravensbourne anywhere else!”
Molly Smith , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design graduate

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/michael-bailey:
Working part-time at a digital agency whilst he was still studying, Michael was thrown into the world of Advertising and Brand Design headfirst, crafting social media content for blockbuster releases Avengers, Star Wars and Toy Story.
Now he works at prestigious design agency Design Bridge, working with massive global brands such as Cadbury’s and Lipton.
Michael knew from very early on that he wanted to pursue a career in advertising and brand design and completed the pre-foundation course at Ravensbourne, before eventually securing a place on the Advertising and Brand Design course.
Throughout his undergraduate studies Michael had the opportunity to work on live briefs for the likes of WWE and Barclays.
Commenting on the experience he gained on the course he said: “You meet and are taught by countless industry professionals and your work is always put in front of them.
You learn how to apply strategy to your work and most of all how to break down a creative brief.”
Within just the first year of the course, Michael had his work put in front of some of the world’s leading Branding and Design agencies and had secured an internship with global advertising agency, Havas.
During the course, Michael and two fellow students won a student award in the prestigious D&AD Awards.
The award was one of just 29 awards given out worldwide.
Commenting on this achievement Michael said: “Our work was constantly challenged by our tutors and through a lot of hard work we managed to win…hearing our names called out at the awards ceremony among some of the best creatives around the world was a moment I’ll never forget”.
Discussing the opportunities available on the course Michael concluded: “Advertising and Brand Design really bridges the gap between industry and education.
This merger makes for a truly unique course and experience”.
Michael studied BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/virtual-open-day-demand/chat-our-students-and-staff:
Do you want to know what's it like to study at here?
Well, find out first-hand from our staff and students.
You or your parent/guardian/carer can chat to representatives from our enquiries team, Student Services, Ravensbourne Students' Union, as well as students from a range of our courses by clicking on one of the below profile.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/building-tour-wednesday-27-august-2025:
Join us for a tour of our award-winning building, fantastic facilities and support services.
Each tour takes approximately one hour and includes the main university building and our other two buildings.
Tours will start on the hour between 11am - 3pm and are led by a friendly student ambassador.
Book for Wednesday 27 August 2025 or check out more building tour dates .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/building-tour-wednesday-3-september-2025:
Book for Wednesday 3 September 2025 or check out more building tour dates .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/building-tour-saturday-16-august-2025:
Book for Saturday 16 August 2025 or check out more building tour dates .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/connect/events/building-tour-wednesday-20-august-2025:
Book for Wednesday 20 August 2025 or check out more building tour dates .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/student/ravensbourne-students-host-live-broadcast-teenage-cancer-trust:
Students from five Ravensbourne courses have united to broadcast a live event for Teenage Cancer Trust .
The project is led by two of our BA (Hons) Digital Television Production students, who envisioned the idea for their Final Major Project.
The broadcast will take place on Friday 9 April 2021.
Lauren Telling and Niamh Duffy, who will act as director and producer for the project, established the relationship with the charity themselves, and managed to secure the nationwide broadcast of their work across all of its regional Facebook pages on Friday 9 April at 6.00pm.
The 60-minute live broadcast is called ‘A Night with Teenage Cancer Trust’ and will be realised through the combined efforts of around 30 students from various Ravensbourne degree programmes.
This includes students from our BSc (Hons) Digital Television Technology , BA (Hons) Digital Television Production , BA (Hons) Digital Film Production , BA (Hons) Editing and Post Production and BA (Hons) Motion Graphics courses.
For an industry that is often male-dominated, the production stands out as a largely female-led project both in front of and behind the camera, featuring a female lead engineer, artists and more.
It will showcase fundraising tips and tricks shown in a series of short films, interviews and challenges, all filmed from a Covid-secure studio by the student team.
A highlight are its ‘Rave on the Roof’ segments, which include live performances from two up-and-coming singer-songwriters, Lily Denning and Sola Fae , who were filmed live on the roof of the Ravensbourne building against the iconic backdrop of the Greenwich Peninsula.
Lauren and Niamh scoured Instagram to find and book the artists, and used booking site StarNow to cast and audition their presenters, Emily Brewster and Aron Clark.
They said they were motivated to go above and beyond their project brief because they wanted to create something with a lasting impact.
Aside from directly raising the money themselves, a crucial aim of their broadcast is to inspire others to launch their own fundraising ventures.
The night aims to be uplifting and educational, as well as entertaining, and will share some of the less widely known truths about the effects of cancer.
The broadcast is the culmination of a series of fundraising efforts by the pair in recent months, which have so far raised £1,279 for the charity.
Their campaign has seen Niamh take on a 25-mile walking and running challenge in December and Lauren complete an eight-hour workout session in January.
They have created a ‘Text to Donate’ number which will be used during the live show to help raise more money (GIVE TO 70500).
Viewers can also donate via their dedicated fundraising page .
Niamh said: “I always knew that I wanted to create a live studio broadcast that will either be for children or to help children.
I spoke to Lauren over dinner about an idea to have a charity broadcast as we both have family members that have had help from so many different British charities.
We spoke to a few charities and Teenage Cancer Trust was the most interested and creative.
If we can inspire one person to sell cupcakes, do a run or skydive, then they have helped so much more.”
Lauren said: “This broadcast is more than a university project, it is a passion project!
I am so grateful to been given the opportunity to represent such an amazing charity and help raise money when they need it the most.
I have watched this project grow from an idea Niamh and I had while out for dinner to a nationwide broadcast.
I hope this will be the start of many collaborations with Teenage Cancer Trust and am so proud of the work my team and I have put in to make it a reality.”
Audrey Aquilina, course leader for Digital TV Technology, said: “TV students at Ravensbourne embraced the challenge of producing a live show in the very tight window available to them post lockdown restrictions.
Months of planning with students across courses as well as teaching and support staff went into ensuring they were ready to start production on the very first day they could re-enter Ravensbourne's campus, so that no production days were lost following the disruption due to Covid-19.”
Teenage Cancer Trust initially agreed to put out the broadcast on its South East Facebook page, but was so impressed by the quality of their work that it will now be viewable across all seven of its regional Facebook pages.
You can watch the broadcast on Friday 9 April at 6.00pm on the following Teenage Cancer Trust pages: The Midlands , East Anglia , Wales & South Wales , South East , Scotland , Yorkshire, the Humber & North East and North West & Cumbria .
Thank you to all of the students working on ‘A Night with Teenage Cancer Trust’:
Lauren Telling – Director
Niamh Duffy – Producer
Joshua Sweet – Production Manager
Emma Bolton – Production Assistant
Mia Cowen-Dixon – Autocue
Annabelle Philpott – Vision Mixer
Morgan Richards – Lead Engineer
Joey Houldsworth – GFX Op
Mariam Alim – VTs Op
Rebekah Wright – Support Engineer
Bojan Zunic – Head of Lighting
Ethan Arif – Lighting Assistant
Camille Quitevis – Racks
Charlie Stalker – Head of Sound
Charlotte Kavanagh – Sound Assistant
Cerys Irons – Sound Engineer
Robert Clark – Floor Manager
Matthew De Ath – Floor Manager
Melissa Grima – Set Designer
Henry Simpson – Camera Op
Tod Osinaike – Jib/Head of Cameras
Sam Sharpe – Camera Op
Alex Stripe – Camera Op
Jay Damiral – Support Engineer
Kieran Waters – Transmission Engineer
Holly McCandless-Desmond - Photographer

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/commercial/ravensbourne-completes-biggest-royal-shakespeare-company:
Ravensbourne’s Department of Production students have completed their two biggest broadcasts to date, streaming the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC)’s productions of Macbeth and Romeo and Juliet to 149,000 pupils from schools across the UK.
The RSC first started the broadcast series in 2013 andRomeo and Juliet marked the 15th production that Ravensbourne and the RSC’s Education team have collaborated on.
Both the productions and associated Q&A sessions were facilitated by Ravensbourne BA (Hons) Digital Television Production and BSc (Hons) Digital Television Technology students, in a wide range of roles including graphics operator, producer, technical lead and director.
They worked alongside members of the RSC Education team to manage the broadcast, including moderating the hundreds of questions submitted by students for the creative team.
The Macbeth broadcast was watched by 82,540 students across 645 UK schools, including 22 British Sign Language schools.
Romeo and Juliet reached 66,514 students across 521 schools, including 24 British Sign Language schools.
Actors from both productions attended the Ravensbourne studio to answer questions sent in by school pupils.
Earlier in the year, a new studio set and broadcast systems were developed to increase interactivity with the audience, including a new graphics package provided by Vizrt, feeding live questions from schools into the studio.
Skype calls facilitated by Quicklink were also used for the first time in April, bringing the students into the studio.
Ravensbourne students had the opportunity to learn from Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elemental, who supported them in developing a new streaming workflow.
Recently, Richard Manning, Acting Course Leader for Digital Television Technology was invited to attend AWS’ Re:Invent conference in Las Vegas, delivering a presentation on Ravensbourne’s use of AWS Elemental Cloud Services in their RSC and degree show broadcasts.
Commenting, Richard said: “As well as the opportunity to collaborate with industry professionals on a large-scale broadcast, our students were also challenged to adapt to using the latest in broadcast technology.
The last broadcast was undoubtedly one of our biggest, and I’m incredibly proud of our students for approaching the collaboration with such professionalism and diligence.
Following our implementation of AWS Elemental Cloud Services into the project we have improved the viewing experience for the school children watching.
It was an honour to present this to specialists in the media and entertainment industries that are looking to use cloud services in their own organisations, at AWS Re:Invent.”
Fiona Ingram, Head of Education Programmes at the Royal Shakespeare Company added: “We work with thousands of young people across the country, but working with Ravensbourne students is really unique.
Working alongside us to stream our productions means that they are in a real work situation, where the stakes are high.
They have to be proactive problem solvers and over the broadcast series we have developed a real sense of trust.
It’s fantastic to work on a project made by students for other students to enjoy.
We are grateful to Virgin Media whose invaluable support make these broadcasts possible.”
The RSC Schools’ Broadcasts are generously supported by Virgin Media as part of its commitment to make good things happen through digital.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/amazon-mentorship-winner-genna-holliss-mission-bridge-stem-gender:
BSc (Hons) Creative Computing student Genna Holliss recently fought off tough competition to be chosen for the Amazon Future Engineer Mentorship .
Her university education is now sponsored by Amazon Web Services (AWS) for three years.
She will also be appointed a dedicated Amazon mentor and receive expert career guidance and support.
This achievement is a testament to Genna's relentless drive and ambition.
She is on a mission to make careers in STEM (the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics) more accessible to women and to inspire more students to pursue their dreams.
Here she chats about what the mentorship programme means to her, and some of her big plans for the future.
I am so excited and honoured, it really means a lot to me that people are recognising my hard work and achievements, also that they believe in me.
I feel like this belief will really help me fulfill my full potential
Previously in my college, I had an opportunity to take part in a project with AWS and Career Colleges Trust.
From this I learnt so much more about AWS and the opportunities they provide for education and learning.
Before I took part in this project, I didn't really have a career path, but this inspired me to study at Ravensbourne and take up the exciting Creative Computing course.
The bursary and mentorship will help me build new connections within AWS, and give me much more experience working with a leading industry.
I am a big advocate for following your dreams; no dream is too big or too small.
Everyone and anyone can achieve what they set their heart and mind to.
I love telling people my story to help and inspire others.
From the age of six I was diagnosed with ADHD and my concentration skills were not very good.
Although I battled every day I came out of school with some great grades.
I studied Graphic Design at my college and through this I had the amazing opportunities with AWS.
I built some great connections with them, and it also inspired me to pursue this new career path.
I think positive things happen from hard work and consistency.
If you have these skills, you will reach your goals.
I hope that within five years I am in a stable career as a Junior Software Engineer or Developer - there really aren't many women in these roles, and I'd love to help close the gap.
Applying to study at Ravensbourne was one of the best decisions I have ever made!
I was inspired that Ravensbourne works with leading companies like the BBC and AWS to help students get noticed and support them into employment after graduation.
The 90% employability rate speaks for itself, and of course that is one of the main goals for every person studying.
For me one of the biggest benefits of studying at Ravensbourne are the people.
Even though most of our lessons and contact has been online this year due to COVID-19,  the staff, tutors and students in my year have all built a fantastic bond already.
There are so many different opportunities at the university too; for example Unibuddies, Student Ambassadors, Course Reps, Amazon Future Engineer Bursary.
There are so many ways to make some extra cash while studying and to help out within the university at the same time.
Unlike most universities, Ravensbourne is a university that works really closely with the creative industries to give students the skills and experience needed to enter employment in the relevant creative fields.
Finally, the high employment rate.
This really does speak for itself.
The fact that 90% of Ravensbourne students entered employment in 2020 and after such a crazy year too is just incredible!
Find out more about the Computing courses available and the Ravensbourne and Amazon collaboration.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-product-design-students-excel-2023-awards:
Our second-year Product Design students have had a bumper year at awards ceremonies this year, amassing an incredible 10 nominations across three big end-of-year shows.
These awards hold incredible weight in industry, and many winners secure jobs at retailers and design companies off the back of this recognition.
In one competition, four out of the five finalists are Ravensbourne students - with one taking the overall prize.
Huge congratulations to all our talented students and BA (Hons) Product Design team.
I couldn't be prouder of our Year 2 students.
To be shortlisted for these high-profile national competitions is a huge confidence booster and a great testament to the teaching and learning on the programme.”
Mathew Brown , BA (Hons) Product Design Course Leader
The POPAI (Point of Sale/Retail Design) Student Design Awards
Jakob Timerdahl won the Student Design Awards at POPAI 2023 , while o ur students Marta Manzano Brogeras, George Cooper, and Carl Harrisson were selected as finalists.
There are only five finalists, meaning four out of five total were from Ravensbourne – an incredible achievement.
The finalists pitched their designs at a Dragon’s Den style event to decide the overall winner.
In addition, Jack Charles-Doran, Bego Pinon-Lopez, and Aresh Rabanantha were shortlisted for the award.
The POPAI awards are the UK's premier student awards for creative retail design.
Students create storefront and pop-up stores for various retailers.
The Starpack Student Design Awards
Our students George Cooper and Charn Matharu were shortlisted for the Starpack Student Design Awards 2023 .
The Starpack awards challenges students to create design solutions to problems set by leading agencies and manufacturers.
The Pro Carton Young Designers Packaging Awards 2022-23
Our student Rose Lwin has also been shortlisted for the Pro Carton Young Designers Award this year.
The Pro Carton awards is Europe's leading design competition for packaging design, celebrating the use of the material cartonboard.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/blog/student/creative-collaboration-obama-foundation:
Basketball culture is so much more than the game.
It encompasses everything from fashion to music, and from food to street art.
After fighting off tough competition, nine Ravensbourne students joined forces with young people in Chicago to build a campaign that expresses the impact of basketball from London to Chicago.
Starting in London the group embarked on an intense immersion of London's basketball scene.
They developed their ideas and built a creative campaign before a select number of the group flew to Chicago.
In Chicago, the group explored the game and presented their ideas to Jordan's Vice President Harold White and Nike's influential designer of the Air Max and Air Jordan trainer, Tinker Hatfield.
Navigating different time zones and perspectives, the group formed a tight bond, learning and growing together to create a unique jersey and court design, create a campaign strategy and produce a piece of spoken word and film.
We caught up with two Ravensbourne students to discuss this life-changing experience.
It was the opportunity to work with some big names, especially the Obama Foundation.
The organisation has done so much for the lives of young black people.
It was also the chance to go abroad and understand more about different cultures.
I wanted to experience a different way of life and to gain a perspective about other young people’s lives.
It was absolutely amazing.
I felt very privileged to have been picked.
When I heard the news, I was at my cousin’s house and the guys on the Zoom meeting said, “Joseph, have you had all your vaccinations… we would like to congratulate you and tell you you’re going to America.”
It was a very surreal moment, I didn’t believe it at first.
It just didn’t feel real at all.
It was only when I sat on the plane that I thought, “damn, I’m actually leaving the country”.
The first time we all met as a group was in London.
We met them outside their hotel, and we instantly hit it off.
Everyone was really friendly and excited.
There were four students from Chicago and two teachers from My Brother’s Keeper, which is part of the Obama Foundation and Champs Mentoring , a mentoring programme for men in Chicago.
It was so much fun getting to know them and learning about their lives.
Some of the group from Chicago were really young, as young as 17, but they were all so mature for their age.
Before we started the work, I knew nothing about basketball culture in America.
I am one of the founders of Ravensbourne’s basketball society, so I could speak with authority about the UK basketball culture.
The first thing we did was to tackle the brief like a story.
We asked everyone in the group what their own story was – so what does basketball mean to everyone personally.
We were split into separate groups, because we all specialised in different areas.
There were three groups of four or five people with a mix of UK and Chicago students in each group.
One of the first things we discussed was the key differences between the two cultures when it came to the actual game of basketball.
As a group, we discussed how, in the US, the culture of basketball is very much focused on the grind, so whether you make it to play professionally.
For this reason, the game itself is very structured.
This differed a lot from how the game is played in the UK, where generally it is more relaxed and more of a hobby.
As we had the luxury of being in London, we started to walk around so the group could get a feel for the city.
As we walked around, we identified three words that encapsulated basketball culture in our respective cultures.
We talked about the fashion around the sport, so Jordan’s for example, we talked about the lingo surrounding the game too.
From there, we started to develop the visuals and the language to use in the campaign, and slowly the whole thing started to take shape.
I loved the final result.
I think it translated really well, and most importantly, I felt it really encapsulated the game of basketball from both the UK and US points of view.
Seeing the jersey in the flesh, with all the different stickers which represent all the different meanings and different stories was really special.
When we were in Chicago, we had the luxury of going to visit the Chicago Bulls and had full access to the courts.
We were speaking to NBA players, and we got the chance to ask them about their own stories.
We got the chance to meet Tinker Hatfield , the hugely successful American designer, as well as the CEO of the Jordans brand.
I think my favourite aspect was meeting Don C , the creative director of the Chicago bulls.
He is a visionary, so to sit down with him and have a normal conversation with him was truly incredible.
We got to talk to him about his creative process, and his storytelling tactics.
He’s a multimillionaire and incredibly successful, but he came across as being so humble and approachable.
He didn’t appear to have a big ego at all, that was so refreshing to see.
When we were in London, we also had the chance to talk to John Glasgow at his studios.
He runs Vault 49, a design agency based in both New York City and London.
His mindset was really inspiring.
One of the biggest challenges was managing the time difference between the UK and Chicago.
The UK is six hours ahead of Chicago, so this made communication pretty challenging at times.
We really stepped up to the challenge though.
Both teams had to stay up all night on occasions to make sure everything was running smoothly, and to make sure we were hitting our deadlines.
I definitely developed new skills.
I’m naturally a very talkative and outgoing person, and I’m comfortable pitching ideas in front of a room of people on my own.
In the past, I’ve always felt I worked better on my own than with a group of people.
However, this process showed me you can’t do everything alone.
Individually, we all had our own skills, but when we came together, we were unstoppable.
I’m so grateful to have had the chance to be involved in the programme and work with everyone in the wider team.
It taught me that stories can be told in so many ways and from so many perspectives.
We had so much fun in the process and we were all so proud of what we achieved.
Because of this process, I was fortunate enough to work with some amazing mentors.
They are helping me understand my own creative process and to develop my creative skills to really excel in the future.
I have big dreams; in the future I want to build one of the biggest design studies in the world, to rival some of the biggest brands out there right now.
I want it to be a place where people are empowered to tell their own individual stories and to tell them through many mediums.
I am also hoping to get a First in my degree.
I just want to say a massive thank you to all the organisers and everyone that made it happen, and to all the incredible people we met on the trip.
Everyone from My Brother’s Keeper and the Obama Foundation , Champs Mentoring , Vault 49, Wilson apparel, Chicago Bulls, Jeff Shapack and everyone at Ravensbourne and CreativeLab who did such an incredible job of organising everything.
I couldn’t be more grateful.
I found out about the programme through an email I received, and it sounded like a really fun project to get involved in during the summer.
I thought it would be a great opportunity to meet other students from other courses and get out of my comfort zone.
I was so surprised when I found out I was one of the students selected to travel to Chicago and really grateful for the opportunity.
To be honest, I was a little nervous as I hadn’t travelled abroad since I was a kid, but I was mainly excited to explore Chicago with the other students in the group.
Everyone in the team was so lovely.
We had a lot of time during our first session to get to know one another as we started discussing the brief.
It was interesting hearing about what everyone does on their course and their personal interests.
We also got to welcome the students from the Obama Foundation the day they arrived from Chicago, so it was exciting getting to talk to them for the first time too.
As a group, we began by brainstorming ideas for our campaign message and researching basketball culture in London, before splitting into smaller teams.
As part of the design team, I worked with two other students to sketch different ideas for the campaign logo and stickers to print on the jersey.
I always find it easier to sketch initial ideas out on paper before moving on to creating more finalised digital designs.
I was so happy with how the final jersey design and campaign video turned out.
I think we managed to successfully represent both London and Chicago basketball cultures in our campaign.
We unveiled the final designs in Chicago, and I felt so proud of the team and how much we had managed to accomplish in such a short amount of time.
Meeting and collaborating with students from both Chicago and London was easily my favourite aspect of the experience.
I really enjoyed showing the students from Chicago around London and learning about the differences between studying in our different cities.
It was amazing getting to travel back to Chicago and to explore the city too.
I learnt so much more about branding and copywriting during our workshop with Vault 49.
Throughout the programme, I also feel my presentation and public speaking skills improved.
I became more comfortable expressing my ideas during our group discussions and speaking up during the formal presentation.
After graduating, I hope to work as an illustrator full time, so I’m currently working towards that.
I’ve been keeping my options open for now, so I haven’t decided what area I’d like to specialise in yet.
Also, being a part of this programme has made me want to travel abroad more once I graduate.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/commercial/welcome-new-ravensbourne-website:
We are thrilled to announce the launch of our brand new Ravensbourne website!
The existing web address, Ravensbourne.ac.uk , can be used to access our newly-designed site.
After a tremendous amount of hard work, design and determination we officially launched our new website on Tuesday 23 June 2020.
We have always had a clear vision of what our ideal website should look and feel like.
We imagined a dynamic, design-led site that was both easy to navigate and much faster to browse through.
We wanted visitors to have an enhanced user experience, while discovering all the things that make Ravensbourne University London a truly amazing place to be.
We conducted thorough research with our existing visitors, designing a site structure that directly mirrored the ideal user journey.
We refreshed all of our content and have ensured that our students’ work is always centre-stage.
Our Pro-Vice Chancellor Research, Enterprise and Innovation, Professor Lawrence Zeegen explained, ‘As a university that prides itself on the amazing work of our creative community, it was important for us to create a vibrant, faithful showcase of our collective successes.
We believe the site captures the energy and innovation of our institution.’
Amongst the new features, the site contains integrated social media feeds, share buttons and chat features to improve our communication and celebrate our achievements.
The new website represents who we are, what we teach, our industry partnerships, up and coming events and much more!
As we continue to grow as a university, we will be constantly updating our content with helpful information, cutting edge thought leadership, company announcements and of course more amazing student successes.
We would also like to thank our amazing staff at Ravensbourne who have worked tirelessly to bring this site to life, as well as our trusted web partner Numiko .
For any questions, suggestions, feedback or comments, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/advertising-and-brand-design-students-create-their-own-mobile-degree-show:
Students from Ravensbourne’s BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course showcased their work on a mobile digital billboard.
The ingenious exhibition acted as an alternative to their cancelled physical Degree Show, allowing them to present their work around London.
On Thursday 25 June 2020, our students took their work on the road with a digital exhibition.
As the government enforced lockdown closed institutions throughout the world, our students thought of how best they could still present their amazing work to potential employers.
The innovative students conceived a plan to showcase their work around iconic London landmarks, and enjoy some of the exposure that Degree Shows usually represent.
Although many office workers are still confined to their homes, the students hoped that their ground-breaking work could garner the audience it deserves and be enjoyed by the general public.
The mobile digital billboard provided an opportunity for a safe, socially-distanced outdoor exhibition, that anyone could view.
The touring degree show is part of a wider campaign titled ‘We are 906’.
The campaign is a celebration of the work that a collective of students have made together in Studio 906 in the Ravensbourne building.
The students have created a catalogue that displays their work and a vibrant, dedicated website that champions their impressive talent.
Third year student, Shiv Patel, commented, ‘We are a resilient bunch and have always been encouraged to look for the next opportunity.
Rather than thinking about what we couldn't do for our final show, we solved the problem and focused on how we could make it better.
While our work is as varied as we are, it is always grounded in real world insights, so it made sense to present our work in the real world.’
We are incredibly proud that our students have used their initiative and have demonstrated such resilience.
Although the coronavirus pandemic has been incredibly difficult, our students have continued to create and innovate.
The mobile exhibition travelled to the following locations:
9.00am - 10.30am      West End
10.30am - 11.00am.
Landmarks (surrounding Tate Britain)
11.30am - 12.30pm     Bankside, Bermondsey, London Bridge
1.30pm - 2.30pm        Farringdon, Camden
3.00pm - 4.00pm       Shoreditch
5.00pm - 6.00pm       Hackney
You can check out the official Advertising and Brand Design Instagram account, @dad_rave .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-student-wins-kopparberg-label-design:
A Ravensbourne University London student has designed a fresh new look for the latest limited-edition Kopparberg bottles, which will be available across the UK this summer.
Paige Langan, a third-year BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student who has just completed her studies, won an exclusive competition held in collaboration between Ravensbourne University London and international drinks brand Kopparberg.
Partnerships with industry are integral to the Ravensbourne student experience, and this incredible opportunity marks the third year of this collaboration.
The win is an incredible springboard to Paige’s career in design.
In addition to having her designs used by the world-famous brand, she also wins a six-week internship at the award-winning design agency ‘Neverland’ in London and will have her final year of tuition funded by Kopparberg.
It’s been really exciting making the design and getting feedback on it.
Working to an industry standard, which as a student you don’t get much experience of, so it’s been great.
I couldn’t have asked for more.”
Paige Langan , BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design student
Paige’s winning designs will be printed on 8.5 million bottles spanning two of Kopparberg’s most popular flavoured cider variants, ‘Strawberry and Lime’ and ‘Mixed Fruit’.
These will hit supermarket shelves and be available in pubs, bars, and restaurants UK-wide over the summer.
The competition was open to students from across Ravensbourne University London’s specialist courses, including BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design, BA (Hons) Graphic Design, BA (Hons) Illustration for Communication.
At Kopparberg, we believe in firsts that last.
The limited-edition competition allows us to offer students the opportunity to work on their first live brief and secure a prize that can shape their future.
We hope that this, alongside the internship and bursary, will really kick start Paige's career in the creative industry.”
Nancy Dales , Brand Manager at Kopparberg
Fans of the hugely popular Swedish cider may recall the previous winning designs, Ben McKay’s 2022 neon street art-inspired bottles and last year’s monster-themed designs by Paulina Grönlund.
Paige’s latest designs utilised bright colours and geometric shapes.
Judges on Kopparberg’s creative team were immediately impressed with how Paige’s design incorporated the energy and dynamism of music and enjoying the summer.
Paige was presented with her designs printed on the bottles at a celebration event held at Ravensbourne, based in London’s Design District in North Greenwich, on Thursday 25 April 2024 competition.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/international-education-agents:
We work with partner agents around the world who are able to advise you on your course choices, your portfolio, and your application to study at Ravensbourne University London.
Read the Student’s Guide to choosing the right education agent for you.
Our trusted agents can be found in the following countries:
Ravensbourne University London has an exclusivity agreement with Oxford International Education Group (OIEG) in
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/albania Address: Rruga Moskat, Zayed Business Center, K.2, Tirana 1001, Albania Email: [email protected] Phone: +355 6960500946
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: 18 Hamdani Lahcene Road, Hydra, 16016, Algiers, Algeria Email: [email protected] Phone: +213555008769
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: Suite 603, Level 6, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Email: [email protected] Phone: +61 02-85419083
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: Level 4, 152 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia Email: [email protected] Phone: +61 0390710399
Web: https://www.studyco.com/ Address: Suite 601, 6th Floor/10 Help St, Chatswood NSW 2067, Sydney, Australia Email: [email protected] Phone: +61 294116000
Web: www.studyco.com Address: Ground Floor/333 Collins St, Melbourne VIC 3000, Asutralia Email: [email protected] Phone: +61 396292677
Web: https://www.azeristudent.az/ Address: Nobel pr 15, Azure Business, Baku, Azerbaijan Email: [email protected] Phone: +994 (12) 488 66 78; +994 (50) 512 28 28
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/azerbaijan/ Address: Haydar Aliyev Prospekti 152 Çinar Plaza İş, Merkezi A Blok 4.Kat 64m Bakü, Azerbaycan Email: [email protected] Phone: +994 554082303
Web: www.studynet-group.com Address: AF Business House, 5th Floor, Nizami Street 203B, Baku, Azerbaijan Email: [email protected] ; [email protected] Phone: +994 12 310 00 23/24; +994 (055) 918 93 93
Web: www.studyexperience.be Address: 143 Avenue Louise, 1050 Brussels, Belgium Email: info @studyexperience.be Phone: +32 2 89955 07
Web: https://www.studyco.com/ Address: Al.
Rio Negro, 503 – Alphaville, Barueri, SP, 06454-000, Brazil Email: [email protected] Phone: +55 11916194754
Web: www.edlanta.com/ Address: Sofia, 1142 , boulvard Vasil Levski 3, floor 1, flat 1, Bulgaria Email: [email protected] Phone: +35929864001
Web: www.edlanta.com/ Address: Burgas 8000, Vardar street 26, 1st floor, office 2 Email: [email protected] Phone: +35956530800
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: 405-7030 Woodbine Avenue, Markham ON L3R 6G2, Canada Email: [email protected]
Web: www.studyin-uk.ca/ Address: 333 Bay Street, 14th Floor, Toronto ON M5H 2R2, Ontario Canada Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 416-998-8532
Web: www.studyin-uk.ca/ Address: 10 Floor, Bankers Hall West, 888, 3rd Street, South West, Suite 1000.
Calgary, ALberta T2P 5C5 Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 4032443809
Web: www.studyin-uk.ca/ Address: Unit 2136, 1055 W Georgia St, Vancouver, BC V6E 3N9, Canada Email: [email protected] Phone: +1-778-955-2545
Web: www.amberedu.com/ Address: Room 1901, International Building, No.
19 Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 1065661010
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: Floor 13, New Oriental Building, No.6 Haidian Central Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100080, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 1062605599
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: 12/F, Jiadi Centre,No.968 West Beijing Road, Jingan District, Shanghai, China Email: [email protected]
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: F18 New Century Office Center, No.1111 South Rd., Pudong Dist., Shanghai, China Email: [email protected]
Web: www.ukpass.org Address: Room 906-907, Guozhong Building, No.
33 Dengshikou Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing (near Wangfujing Church, next to Jingshan School), China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 1065273033
Web: www.ukpass.org Address: Tain An Office, Suite 703 Tian An Centre, No 338 Nanjing West Road, Shanghai 200003, PR China Email: [email protected] ; Phone: +86 2163595353
Web: www.lcig.io Address: Room 3210, Building A, Cyber Tower, No.2 Zhong Guan Cun Nan Street, Haidian District, Beijing, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 2120575588
Web: www.poweracademy.cn/ Address: Room 2108, Block A, Dongyu Building, No.
1 Shuguang Xili, Chaoyang District, Beijing Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 01059799010
Web: www.poweracademy.cn/ Address: Room 188, 7th Floor, Xintiandi Xinli, No.
380 Huangpi South Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai Email: [email protected] Phone: +86-21-53098006
Web: www.studyco.com Email: [email protected]
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/china/ Address: 28 Fucheng Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 2152838680
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/china/ Address: Room 704, Feidiao International Building,No.
1065 Zhaojiabang Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 15601601917
Web: www.hkosc.com.hk Address: Room 1010, Main Building, Guangdong International Building, No.
339, Huanshi East Road, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510098, China Email: [email protected] Phone: '+86 2083311171
Web: www.hkosc.com.hk Address: Room E-44, 3/F, Henry Commercial Centre, No.
16 I Ban Zhang Tong Street, Macau Email: [email protected] Phone: +853 2838 9291
Web: www.ukec.net.cn Address: D1216 U-Center Plaza, Wudaokou, No.
28 Chengfu Street, Haidian District, Beijing, PR China, 100083 Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 1062666844
Web: m.wiseway.com.cn Address: 11&12A/F, Hesheng Jiaye Plaza, 32# Zhongguancun Avenue,Haidian District, 100086, Beijing, China Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 1068946699
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/colombia/ Address: Calle 106 # 54 - 78, Of.
702, Bogota, Colombia Email: [email protected] Phone: +57 3183499429
Web: https://volemi.com/ Address: CL 70 5 22 , Bogota, 110231, Colombia Email: [email protected] Phone: +57 3505294927
Web: www.globaleducationcy.com Address: 22 Sina Street, Block B, Office 003, Engomi, Nicosia (Near the American Embassy) Email : info @globaleducationcy.com ; Phone: +357 22 780250, 22 772244
Web: www.siuk-cyprus.com/ Address: 40, Kemal Şemiler Caddesi, Metehan,Lefkoşa/Nicosia, Lefkosa 99010, Cyprus Email: [email protected] Phone:+90 3922238965; +90 5488535888
Web: www.siuk-cyprus-eu.com/ Address: 30 Athinon Str., Office 101, Agios Dometios, 2363 Nicosia, 99010, Cyprus Email: [email protected] Phone: +35722778700
Web: www.study-net.eu Address: 34 Arch.
Makariou lll, Hadjiyiannia Court, Office 201, Limassol, Cyprus Email: [email protected] Phone: +357 22 565535
Web: www .zenoledu.com Address: 8 Riga Feraiou, Aglanzia,  Nicosia, 2122, Cyprus Email: [email protected] Phone: +357 99623252
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: HT-8 Building, 5A Waterway, New Cairo 1, Cairo Governorate 4720104, Egypt Email: [email protected] Phone: +201033133772
Web: www.education-basket.com/ Address: Suite 9, 15 Sayed Zakareya St.
Sheraton Al Matar, Cairo, Egypt Email: [email protected] Phone:+20 2 22696228; Mob: +20 100 5589930
Web: https://studyco.com/ Address: Alsayeda Khadiga, Flat 21, Tower 3, Alakad Towers, Street, Elsefarat, Nasr City, Cairo Governorate 11765, Egypt Email: [email protected] Phone: +20 12 22231211
Web: Study Abroad | Bellnor | Estonia Address: Tuukri põik 10, 10120 Tallinn, Estonia Email: [email protected] Phone: +372 660 9606
Web: www.studyexperience.fr/ Address: 1 Rue de Stockholm, 75008 Paris, France Email: info @studyexperience.fr Phone: +33 1 71 60 03 06
Web: CES BCES Address: Leof.
Dimarchou Aggelou Metaxa 4, Glifada 166 75, Greece Email: [email protected] ​ Phone: +30 21 0363 8897
Web: https://www.photiades.ac.cy/en/ Address: 16 Tzaferi Street, 11854 Gazi, Athens, Greece Email : [email protected] Phone: +30 6953044440,
Web: Amber Study Abroad | Official website Home (amberedu.com.hk) Address: 1208-11, Tai Yau Building, 181 Johnston Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong Email: [email protected] Phone: +852 2377 7888
Web: United Kingdom Study Specialists: UK Study Abroad Centre (britishunited.net) Address: 9/F Wai Hing Building, 148 Prince Edward Road West, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong Email: [email protected] ; [email protected] Phone: +852 3426 9976
Web: 學聯海外升學中心 - Hong Kong Overseas Studies Centre (hkosc.com.hk) Address: Room 1229-1230, House, Star3號 Salisbury Rd, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong Email: [email protected] Phone: +852 2730 2068
Web: https://www.intoglobal.com/ Address: Unit 1007, 10/F, Wing On Kowloon Centre, 345 Nathan Road, Jordan, Hong Kong Phone: +852 21056800
Web: www.lcig.io Address: Room 913, Lippo Sun Plaza, 28 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong, 999077 Email: [email protected] Phone: +86 2120575588
Web: www.studyin-uk.hk Address: Room 1309, Tai Yau Building, 181 Johnston Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong Email: [email protected] Phone: +852 65135719; +852 29678009; +852 29678199; +852 29678959
Web: https://hk.ukec.com/ Address: Room 1102, 11/F, Prince Edward Centre, Hip Shing Hong, 794-802 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon, Hong Kong Email: [email protected] Phone: +852 95303537
Web: www.studyin-uk.id/ Address: The Brooklyn SOHO Tower B (East) - 7th Fl.
Unit O, Jl.
Alam Sutera Boulevard, Tangerang Selatan 15320, Alam Sutera Indonesia Email: [email protected] Phone: +62 81292339008
Web: www.studyin-uk.id/ Address: The Kensington Office Tower - 5th Fl.
Suite H, Jl.
Boulevard Raya no.
1 Kelapa Gading, Jakarta 14240, Indonesia Email: [email protected] Phone: +62 81292339008
Web: www.studyin-uk.id/ Address: Praxis Office Surabaya - 3rd Fl.
Unit P32-01, Jl.
Sono Kembang no.
4-6, Surabaya 60271, Indonesia Email: [email protected] Phone: +62 82245555909
Web: www.studyco.com/ Address: Unit 10, 12th Floor, Negar Tower, Negar Alley, Vanak Sq., -Valiasr Ave., Tehran, Iran, Postal Code: 1969833111 Email: [email protected] Phone: +98 2183870
Web: https://www.elabedu.eu/it/ Address: Via Tacito, 50, 00193 Rome, Italy Email: [email protected] Phone: +39 06 8961 7671
Web: https://www.elabedu.eu/it/ Address: Viale F.
Restelli, 3, 20124 Milano, Italy Email: [email protected] Phone: +39 02 9166 1349
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/italy/ Address: Via dell’architettura 8, Rome 00144, Italy Email: [email protected] Phone: '+39 339706 6538
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: 3-19-11 Kamiitabashi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan Email: [email protected] Phone: +81 362810406
Web: https://beo.jp/ Address: Okada Bldg.
4F, 1-19-8 Shibuya Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, Japan, Nishitokyo, Tokyo, Japan 150-0002 Email: [email protected] Phone: +81 (0)3-6427-9605
Web: https://beo.jp/ Address: Kyoei Building.
2F, Room 210-C, 2-8-11 Shibata, Kita-ku, Osaka City, Osaka, Japan 530-0012.
Email: [email protected] Phone: +81 (0)6-4256-7161
Web: www.ukeducation.jp/ Address: 2F Nissei Building East 2-2-13 Shibata, Kita-ku Osaka 530-0012, Japan Email: [email protected] Phone: +81 678785681
Web: www.ukeducation.jp/ Address: Takagi Building 3F Kamiosaki 2−15−14 Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo-to 141-0021 Japan 141-0021, Japan Email: [email protected] Phone: +81 352729143
Web: https://www.studyco.com/ Address: Wafi Tal Street, Opposite Midas for Furniture, Humeidan Complex 250, Second floor, Amman, Jordan Email: [email protected] Phone: +962 799033668
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/kazakhstan Address: Abay Avenue, 130, Almaty 050046, Kazakhstan Email: [email protected] Phone: '+7 7073320000
Web: www.siuk-kosovo.com/ Address: Sheshi Zahir Pajaziti, Kati 1, Nr.
5, Pristina, Kosovo Email: [email protected] Phone: +38 348441246
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: Sanabel tower, 55 Floor, M2 Jaber Al-Mubarak Street, Kuwait City, Kuwait Email: [email protected] Phone: +96555353633
Web: https://www.studyco.com/ Email: [email protected]
Web: www.studyco.com/ Address: Lebanon Center Ashkar & Dergham 4th Floor Halba – Akkar Halba, Lebanon 6061 Email: [email protected] Phone: +961 81381948
Web: www.studyco.com/ Address: Australian Agency for Education and Training Trading as StudyCo, Number 2-12, Bawabt Alandalus, Hai Alandalus, Tripoli, Libya.
Email: [email protected] Phone: +218 92 230 7021
Web: https://kalba.lt/ Address: Vytauto pr.
32Kaunas, 44328 Kauno m.
sav., Lithuania Email: [email protected] Phone: +370 610 11000
Web: https://kalba.lt/ Address: Kedrų g.
4Vilnius, 03116 Vilniaus m.
sav., Lithuania Email: [email protected] Phone: +370 861011009
Web: MABECS Address: B-07-03 Block, B West, PJ8, 23, Jalan Barat, Seksyen 8 Petaling Jaya, 46050 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia Email: [email protected] Phone: +60 379567655
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/malaysia/ Address: SI Global Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd.,202301016639 (1510561-K), Unit 43-G, Block D, Zenith Corporate Park, Jalan SS7/26, Kelana Jaya, Petaling Jaya, Selangor 47301, Malaysia Email: [email protected] Phone: +60 378861936
Web: www.ukec.net.cn/ Address: 10A (Ground Floor), Nadayu 28 Dagang, Jalan PJS 11/7, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor.
Malaysia Email: [email protected] Phone: +60 378861936
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: Escalier B - Etage 5, Anoual Capital Center - 203, Angle Boulevard Anoual, Bureau N°24 Bd Abdelmoumen, Casablanca, Morocco Email: [email protected] Phone: +212663773168
Web: StudyCare Address: Casablanca, Spaces Anfa Place West Entrance Tower, Level I Anfa Place, Corniche Boulevard, Ain Diab Email: [email protected] Phone: +212624101013
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/morocco/ Address: 207 Boulevard Zerktouni, 5th floor office 20, Casablanca 20100, Morocco Email: [email protected] Phone: +212 601 671 995
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/morocco/ Address: Avenue Ettine Mahaj, Ryad Center, 5th floor, Building 7&8, Hay Ryad Rabat, Morocco Email: [email protected] Phone: +212530134101
Web: safeneteducation.com/ Address: No.1106, 11th Floor, Pearl Condo, Block C, Bahan Township, Yangon, Myanmar Email: [email protected] Phone: +959967561128
Web: https://sonor.no/ Address: Rolfsbuktveien 4d, 1364 Fornebu, Norway Email: [email protected] Phone: +47 973 17 191
Web: www.studyco.com Address: 37 GBM Building, Qurum Plaza, Muscat, Oman Email: [email protected] Phone: +96 8 245 712 10
Web: Jak studiować za granicą?
Elab Education Address: ul.
Nowogrodzka 68, 02-014 Warszawa, Poland Email: [email protected] Phone: +48 22 364 44 66
Web: www.studiawanglii.pl Address: ul.
Daszyńskiego 7, 85-791 Bydgoszcz, Poland Email: [email protected] Phone: +48 600 554 555
Web: Home - Study Abroad with IEC | Undergraduate and postgraduate degrees abroad Address: Rua Latino Coelho 87, 1050-134 Lisbon, Portugal Email: [email protected] Phone: +351 211 360 323
Web: https://studywing.org/ Address: R.
Joly Braga Santos 14B, 2845-132 Amora, Portugal Email: [email protected] Phone: +351 912 794 676
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: M Floor, Burj Alfardan Tower, 4440 8308 Lusail, Doha, Qatar Email: [email protected] Phone: +974 5111 6099
Web: www.i-l.ru Address: 127006 Russia, Moscow, Dolgorukovskaya Str.15, Bld.1, k.2 Email: [email protected] Phone: +7 909 940-95-42
Web: www.studyco.com Address: 7921 Prince Abdulaziz Ibn Musaid Ibn Jalawi St, As Sulimaniyah, Riyadh 12621, Saudi Arabia Email: [email protected] Phone: +966 502578847
Web: dongsuhyuhak.com/ Address: 201-ho, Jeongan Bldg, 14 Nonhyeon-ro 157-gil, Gangnam District, Seoul, South Korea Email: [email protected] Phone: +82 2-588-3558
Web: www.edmuhak.com/ Address: 11F, Aprosquare Building, 55, Seocho-daero 77-gil, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06611 Email: [email protected] Phone: +82 2 562 5091
Web: www.ukcentre.co.kr/ Address: Rm 403 Handuk Building, Teheranro 7gil 11, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06134 Email: [email protected] Phone: +82 2-6052-1020
Web: Home - Study Abroad with IEC | Undergraduate and postgraduate degrees abroad Address: Calle Lagasca 135, 1º B, 28006 Madrid, Spain Email: [email protected] Phone: +34 91 579 2288
Web: https://oxbridgere.com/ Address: 12F-5., No.
206, Sec.
2, Nanjing E.
Rd., Zhongshan Dist., Taipei City 10491, Taiwan Email: [email protected] Phone: '+886 906289106
Web: www.studyin-uk.com.tw Address: 6F-1, No.
1, Section 4, Xinyi Road, Da’an District, Taipei City, 106, Taipei, Taiwan Email: [email protected] Phone: '+886 227556365
Web: https://www.hands-on.co.th/en/ Address: 317 Kamol Sukosol Building, 15th Floor, Silom, Bangkok, Thailand, 10500 Email: [email protected] Phone: +66(0)2-635-5230
Web: https://www.hands-on.co.th/en/ Address: Central Plaza Pinklao Tower A, 7/129 Room No.OF21501/1, 15th floor, Borommaratchachonnani Road, Arun Amarin, Bangkok Noi, Bangkok, Thailand 10700 Email: [email protected] Phone: +66 (0)99-803-6569
Web: https://www.hands-on.co.th/en/ Address: 8 T-One Building, 20th Floor, Sukhumvit Road Phra Khanong Subdistrict, Khlong Toei, Sukhumvit, 10110, Bangkok, Thailand Email: [email protected] Phone:  +66 (0)2-821-6877
Web: https://www.hands-on.co.th/en/ Address: Floor 3, Siripanich Building 191, Huay Kaew Road Suthep Suthep Subdistrict, Mueang, Chiang Mai, 50200, Chiang Mai, Thailand Email: [email protected] Phone:  +66 (0)89-217-5454
Web: www.siuk-thailand.com Address: Sukhumvit 25 VASU 01 Building, Room G01, Ground Floor Klongtoey Nua, Watthana, Bangkok 10110, Thailand Email: [email protected] Phone: +66 22606033
Web: www.academix.com.tr Address: District Harbiye, Cumhuriyet street, Pak Apt.
No:30 D:4 34367 Shishli, Istanbul, next to the Taksim Divan hotel Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 212 249 9489
Web: www.britisheducation.com.tr Address: İstiklal Cd.
Kallavi Sk.
Leon Apt.
No:1/3-4 Beyoğlu Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 212 244 4000
Web: www.bilimevi.com Address: Istiklal St.
Mim Han No: 55, Floor 2 Beyoğlu, 34433, Istanbul Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 212 244 88 77
Web: britishside-edu.com/ Address: Barbaros Bulvari,No:91 34353 Beshiktash, Istanbul Email: [email protected] ; [email protected] ; Phone: +90 (212) 327 5151
Web: www.edcon.com.tr Address: Tunus Caddesi 63/5 Kavaklıdere, Ankara, Turkey Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 3124279000
Web: www.edcon.com.tr Address: Bahcesehir 2.kisim AvniAkyol Cad.
LocaEvleri B Blok No.45 Kat.
-6 Basaksehir, Istanbul, Turkey Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 212669 29 29
Web: www.edukas.com.tr/ Address: Remzi Oğuz Arık Mahallesi, Bestekar Sokak, Üniversite Apt.
No:61 K:2 D:3, Orta Blok Çankaya, Ankara, Turkey.
Email: [email protected] Phone: +90 312 465 04 64
Web: www.edukas.com.tr/ Address: Lotus Nisantasi, Workinton, Halaskargazi Caddesi, No: 38-66, Sisli, Istanbul / Turkey Email: istanbul @edukas.com.tr Phone: +90 212 401 41 90
Web: www.studyco.com Address: Barbaros Bulvari Eski Yildiz Cd No:36 K:1 34353, Besiktas / Istanbul, Turkey Email: [email protected] Phone: +902122365793
Web: www.siuk-turkey.com/ Address: Kızılırmak Mahallesi Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi Next Level, Loft Ofis 4 / 72 - 76 A Kat:27, 06510 Söğütözü, Anakara, Turkey Email: ankara @studyin-uk.com Phone: +90 2129950735
Web: www.siuk-turkey.com/ Address: Fulya Mahallesi Büyükdere Caddesi, No:74/D Ofis:10, 34349, Şişli/İstanbul, Istanbul, Turkey Email: istanbul @studyin-uk.com Phone: +90 2129950735
Web: www.studyco.com Address: Office 303, Burlington Tower, Marasi Dr, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Email: [email protected] Phone: +971 43433427
Web: w ww.studyin-uk.com/uae Address: Office No.
306, Single Business Tower, Business Bay, P.
O.
Box Number: 121285, Dubai, UAE Email: [email protected] Phone: +971 43868900; +971 42844177
Web: www.studyco.com Address: 14309 Sunnyside Ave, Seattle, 98133, USA Email: [email protected] Phone: +12064327581
Web: www.studentstudy.com.ua/ Address: Glybochytska Str, build 40U, 5th floor, Kiev, 04050, Ukraine Email: [email protected] Phone: +380 50 691 48 08
Web: www.studentstudy.com.ua/ Address: Stryiska str, build 12, floor 2, Lviv, 79011, Ukraine Email: [email protected] Phone: +380 50 691 48 08
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/uzbekistan/ Address: 10/1, Afrosiyob Street, Mirabad District, Tashkent City 100015, Uzbekistan Email: [email protected] Phone: +998 971700066; +998 940030366
Web: https://handson-beo.vn/ Address: Huy Son Building, Floor 8, 7-9-11 Mai Thi Luu, Dakao Ward District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 700000 Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 28 2200 0580
Web: Partners Update | ISC Education Address: 1st Floor, Phu Dien Building, 83A Ly Thuong Kiet, Hoan Kiem, Hanoi, Vietnam Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 2439411906
Web: Partners Update | ISC Education Address: 8th Floor, Deaha Building, 360 Kim Ma, Ba Dinh, Hanoi, Vietnam Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 2437925288
Web: Partners Update | ISC Education Address: 5th Floor, Dakao Center Building, 35 Mac Dinh Chi, Da Kao, District 1, HCMC, Vietnam Email: [email protected] Phone: +8428 3824 6622
Web: www.studyco.com Address: Level 6, Tower A, Sky City Building, 88 Lang Ha St, Ward Dong Da, Ha Noi Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 918860026
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/vietnam/ Address: 4th flr, 54-56 Tue Tinh St., Hai Ba Trung Dist.,Ha Noi, Vietnam Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 2439726849
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/vietnam/ Address: 3th flr, 172 Bui Thi Xuan St., Dist.1, Ho Chi Minh city, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Email: [email protected] Phone: +84 2839293998
Web: https://ahzassociates.co.uk/ Address: 2nd Floor, 16 St Clare St, London, EC3N 1LQ, UK Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 (0) 2073779630
Web: UK Guardianship | Student Guardianship Services in the UK Address: Kinetic Business Centre, Theobald Street, Greater London WD6 4PJ, UK Email: service@ukguardianship Phone: +44 7746 972467
Web: www.amberedu.co.uk Address: 2/F, Kingsland House, 122-124 Regent Street, W1B 5SA, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 02077340274
Web: ApplyBoard | Study Abroad Application Platform Address: 101 Frederick St, Kitchener, On N2h 6R3, Canada Email: [email protected] Phone: +1-844-972-7759
Web: liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site/ Address: Golden Cross House 8 Duncannon Street, WC2N 4JF,  London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 207484 5599
Web: britisheducation.com.tr/ Address: Suite LP28855, 20-22 Wenlock Road, N17GU, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 2038242431
Web: www.edcon.com.tr Address: 506 Linen Hall 162-168 Regent Street W1B 5TF London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 2077346467
Web: www.edcon.com.tr Address: 10 York Road, SE1 7ND, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 7897128891
Web: www.globalstudyuk.com/ Address: 4th Floor Swan House, 17-19 Stratford Place, W1C 1BQ, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: '+44 2074864762
Web: www.intoglobal.com/ Address: One Gloucester Place, Brighton.
BN1 4AA, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 2036915600
Web: www.itecgroup.ru Address: 7 Old Town Square, Stratford upon Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 6DY, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 1789 294572
Web: www.shabujglobal.com Address: 1st Floor, 94A Whitechapel High Street, E1 7RA, London,  United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 785 034 97 91
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/ Address: Office 147, 1/F, Liberation Station, Esplanade, JE2 3AS, Jersey,  United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 1534710918
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/ Address: 3rd Floor, 211-213 Regent Street, W1B 4NF, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] ; [email protected] Phone: +44 2072877040
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/ Address: 7 Bell Yard, WC2A 2JR, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 3303230457
Web: www.ukec.net.cn Address: Regis, 16 Upper Woburn Pl, WC10 0AF, London, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 3303230457
Web: www.ukec.net.cn Address: St James Building, 79 Oxford Street, Manchester, M1 6FQ, United Kingdom Email: [email protected] Phone: +44 161 236 0660
Web: www.ukec.net.cn Address: Spaces, Garden Castle Programme, The Bethesda, Bristol, BS1 2NB, United Kingdom
We have joined a group of universities in setting industry standards in international student recruitment and committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF).
The AQF represents a significant step towards maintaining the highest standards of agent management, ensuring that the UK remains a premier study destination for international students.
It reflects our dedication to sustainable internationalisation and highlights our proactive approach to agent quality assurance.
By signing the pledge, we are reinforcing our commitment to delivering a quality experience for our students and partners and we have pledge to:
We value our education agents and the important role they play in supporting our students and providing a great student experience.
We are committed to maintaining open and constructive communication.
If you ever have any concerns or wish to raise a complaint about one of our agents, we’re here to listen and work towards a resolution.
Your feedback helps us improve and ensures we continue to provide the best possible student experience.
To make the process as simple and efficient as possible, we have established a formal complaints procedure.
If you need to raise a concern about one of our agents, please email the Head of Student Recruitment Marketing at [email protected] in the first instance.
If your complaint cannot be resolved at this informal stage, you will then be able to make a formal complaint by following our student Complaints Procedure .
If you would like general advice and information please get in touch: international @rave.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/international-students/entry-requirements-and-visas/visas-and-immigration/cas-deposit-refund:
Applicants who require a Student visa must pay a deposit of 60%* of your tuition fee before the Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) can be issued.
The CAS deposit amount will be deducted from your tuition fee balance.
Please note, you will not be required to pay a deposit if you are receiving a US Federal Student loan to cover payment of your tuition fee payments or your tuition fees are to be paid by an official sponsor.
In these cases, please provide evidence of your sponsorship to our Admissions team.
The tuition fees you are required to pay for your course will be stated in the offer letter.
The non-refundable CAS deposit will be deducted from the tuition fee for that academic year.
The CAS deposit is 60%* of your tuition fee, after any internal scholarship has been applied.
For example, postgraduate tuition fees in 2024/25 were £18,000, with a £3,500 international scholarship.
So a postgraduate student starting a course that year would have been required to pay £8,700 prior to their being issued their CAS.
*70% for postgraduate applicants from India.
The CAS deposit is non-refundable except in one or several of the following circumstances:
The list above is non exhaustive and a request for a CAS deposit refund may be considered on a case by case basis by Ravensbourne.
Please see our Tuition Fees Policy for more information.
An application for an exceptional circumstance refund of CAS deposit due to illness or bereavement must be supported by documentary evidence from an official source before a refund can be approved.
Refunds in relation to exceptional circumstances are at the discretion of the Director of Finance.
In the event that your visa application is refused, we will require you to provide a copy of the refusal notice issued by the Home Office/UKVI and the identification page of your passport.
Please be advised, Ravensbourne will not provide a refund of a CAS deposit or any additional fees paid in the case of visa refusals if:
Applications for a refund must be made in writing to the Head of Finance for assessment by the Director of Finance.
You will need to email your refund request with all the required documents as attachments to [email protected] .
To qualify for a refund, you must submit irrevocable evidence that you are not in the UK by providing a copy of the passport page containing an entry stamp confirming entry
A decision will be made within four weeks provided that the refund application form has been completed correctly and all the relevant information has been submitted to Ravensbourne.
Should further information be required for a final decision to be made, we will notify the applicant.
Please note, this may delay the process further and thus the initial four-week processing time may be extended.
If the refund application is refused, Ravensbourne will not normally reconsider the decision made unless the applicant can provide additional information other than that submitted in the original request to support their claim.
Where a refund is approved payment will normally be made via the same means the payment was made.
For example, if the payment was made by credit card then the refund would be transferred back to the same credit card.
Please note, Ravensbourne does not normally issue refunds by cheque or cash.
In line with UK money laundering legislation, payment will only be refunded to the person or organisation that paid the fees.
No interest is paid on a refund of CAS deposit and/or tuition fee payments.
Please be advised, a £50 administration fee will be deducted from the refund.
All decisions on CAS deposit refunds are made on the basis of the information included in the refund request form and supporting evidence.
If an applicant wishes to appeal against the decision, they will need to complete a new form and evidence that was not included in the original request and send it by email to [email protected] .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/paula-williams:
Paula is an award-winning creative director with over 25 years industry experience, working as part of the BBC Creative team, Agency RedBee Creative branding team, and currently as co-founder of Wonder Creative.
She is also Ravensbourne's Course Leader for Advertising and Brand Design.
She has extensive industry practice in areas including brand strategy, branding, identity design, motion design, promotional campaign development, titles, promotional packages and brand implementation.
She has created engaging and effective multi-platform identities with media brands, including the BBC, ITV, Discovery, Canal Plus, Univision and Renault – working with clients across the UK and international markets.
Her work has been awarded and internationally recognised by D&AD, BAFTA, The Royal Television Society, Design Week, The Global Entertainment Marketing Academy of Arts and Sciences (GEMA), New York Festivals, Marketing Effectiveness and Laus Awards.
She is a founder member of the BBC Motion Graphics steering group, which have created a permanent archive at Ravensbourne.
The archive represents a significant cultural and academic resource in design, media and broadcast, providing a unique collection of motion graphic design history and development across the BBC, for educational and research purposes.
Visit the BBC Motion Graphics archive for more information.
Paula is an anthology editor of Designing the BBC: A History of Motion Graphics , published by Bloomsbury Academic.
The book draws on the unique content of the BBC Motion Graphics Archive of more than 60 years of the BBC's innovative practice and groundbreaking work within motion graphics, and the first-hand perspectives of former BBC staff.
It serves as a richly illustrated chronicle of visual culture within British public service broadcasting and as a case study of the power of design to shape institutional identity and public imagination.
Paula is also a regular judge as part of The Global Entertainment Marketing Academy of Arts and Sciences (GEMA) Europe and the Global Excellence Awards.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/meet-team/steve-lloyd:
After completing a BA in Visual Communication, Steve worked at London design agency Bull Rodger for major clients such as Lloyds Bank and Warner Bros.
He won an IPA effectiveness award for BP Chemicals.
He then worked as a digital director at ico design , putting together cross-media campaigns for Bosch, and Armstrong world industries.
He also created websites and installations for The Science Museum, Crafts Council and interactives for the Wellcome Collection.
His awards include a BIMA, a couple of D&AD nominations and work featured in the V&A's permanent collection.
Currently, he is Senior Lecturer on the BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course at Ravensbourne and Co founder of Substance - an online service created to give organisations the vital insights they need to help build brands with purpose.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/awards-success/ravensbourne-university-london-students-taste-success-again:
Students from the Advertising and Brand Design course at Ravensbourne University London have once again been recognised at the prestigious D&AD New Blood Awards, with some winning their second successive accolade.
The D&AD New Blood Awards is a globally-recognised competition which seeks to acknowledge creative excellence in industry-standard design and advertising projects.
Each year, between 5,000 and 6,000 entries will compete for a coveted New Blood ‘pencil’, the iconic pencil-shaped trophy collected by the winners.
These Awards represent a solid platform for young creatives and fresh talent, with Ravensbourne students’ repeated success a testament to the excellence of the Advertising and Brand Design programme.
Ravensbourne students won for their inspired and considered responses to three industry briefs:
Harriet and Charlie’s Monotype project was their second New Blood award in as many years, having won their first ‘pencil’ in 2024’s awards as second-years.
Their project, Voices from Afghanistan , is a platform which hosts typefaces extracted from the underground letters to girls in the UK written by women and girls living in Afghanistan under the severe restrictions imposed by the Taliban.
Through Voices from Afghanistan, women and young girls can use these typefaces to create placards and social media posts, thus amplifying the voices of women in political discourse.
Mae Farley’s winning Monotype project centred on inherent inequalities faced by those who face the greatest risk of displacement as a result of the climate crisis.
Like Voices from Afghanistan, Up to Our Necks also focuses on typography as an active voice in discourse.
The newly-developed Displaced Font transforms LinoType Bengali into a typeface made up of squares, each representing a life.
The font can then be used in placards, posters and social media posts, pushing for broader recognition of climate-displaced individuals as refugees.
The HSBC project, a collaborative effort from Charisse Saculingan, Eugene Corpuz and Karin Huitfeldt, was named Go the Distance and looks to position HSBC as a dependable ‘lifelong partner’ through every stage of life.
D&AD New Blood provides a rich learning experience for our students.
The briefs are set by leading brands, agencies and studios, and there are an enormous number of resources and experiences that surround the competition.
New Blood creates portfolio-ready projects and winning a D&AD New Blood Pencil (from the 6000 entries) is globally respected by the creative industry.”
Paula Williams , Course Leader, BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design, Ravensbourne University London
These wins not only speak to the university’s pool of fresh talent, but also to the reciprocal relationship between Ravensbourne and industry.
By ensuring that creative, business and technology sectors learn with us as much as our students learn with them, Ravensbourne is well-placed to produce industry-ready graduates capable of shaping and innovating their chosen fields.
Advertising and Brand Design students were also invited to be part of the DixonBaxi Way season three series, where they discussed Cultivating Collaboration.
The episode is available to listen to on their website .
You can find out more about Ravensbourne's exemplary BA (Hons) Advertising and Brand Design course via the dedicated course page .
Additionally, if you'd like to hear more about some of Ravensbourne's winning entries, you can read an in-depth interview with Charisse and Eugene by creative industries publication adobo Magazine .

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-university-london-and-uncommon-creative-studio:
A group of students at Ravensbourne University London are to taking part in a pioneering collaboration with Uncommon Creative Studio , which seeks to bridge creativity, business and technology.
This partnership will see the launch of a Pop-Up Creative Incubator designed to explore and redefine Britain's visual identity in an era of unprecedented cultural and technological change.
The four-week residency, starting today and running until 10 April, will bring together talented students from across Ravensbourne's diverse portfolio of courses, creating a dynamic, co-created studio environment that mirrors real-world industry settings.
This initiative builds upon Ravensbourne's strong industry connections, offering students a transformative opportunity to work within one of the most forward-thinking creative agencies.
Our partnership with Uncommon is a true reflection of our commitment to learn with industry.
This collaboration offers tangible benefits for both sides—our students gain invaluable experience working with one of the world’s most exciting creative agencies, while Uncommon taps into fresh insights from the next generation of creative leaders.”
Derek Yates , Head of Creative Lab, Ravensbourne University London
The incubator will operate three days per week and will feature a programme consisting of workshops, mentoring sessions, and inspirational talks from industry leaders.
To provide insight into creative processes, the residency will also include a major documentary component: a comprehensive film project led by students from our Digital Film Production course.
Students will work in a professional agency environment, creating a unique space where academic exploration meets commercial creativity.
This approach aligns perfectly with Ravensbourne's mission, which emphasises hands-on experience and real-world application of creativity, technological skills and business acumen.
The residency represents an opportunity to demonstrate the relationship between Ravensbourne and industry, with each continually learning alongside, and from, one another.
It will culminate in a special industry showcase where students will present their work to Uncommon staff and invited industry professionals.
Collaborations like these are underpinned by Ravensbourne’s new 2030 strategy , which seeks to ensure that Ravensbourne continues to provide students with unique opportunities to engage with industry leaders and develop the skills needed to shape the future of the creative, business and technology sectors.

New sentences found on https://ravensbourne.ac.uk/people-and-stories/news/university/ravensbourne-student-design-new-brand-identity-aqua-libra:
One Ravensbourne student will win the incredible opportunity to design a new brand identity for Aqua Libra, thanks to a competition launched by the university in collaboration with Britvic.
Ravensbourne sets itself apart from other universities with its unique ties with industry, providing students with real opportunities with real brands, even before graduation.
In our latest exclusive collaboration, coordinated by our in-house creative agency, Creative Lab , students have been tasked with designing a new master brand identity for Aqua Libra, a Britvic brand of infused sparkling waters.
This project is potentially life changing and we are incredibly grateful for the generosity of partners like Britvic.”
Derek Yates , Head of Creative Lab
Aqua Libra is undergoing a period of change, and is seeking a new identity to transform the brand.
Students will enter the competition by creating a new logo and design to feature on the drinks’ packaging.
They must consider Aqua Libra’s brand pillars and how the branding might translate to the brand’s other product areas, such as their tap water dispensers and their hospitality and commercial arms.
The winner will embark on work experience with design agency Brand Opus and the Britvic and Aqua Libra marketing team to help develop their initial concepts into final designs for production.
They will also win a year of tuition fees, while the two runners up will win £500 each.
The competition is open to all students across all of Ravensbourne’s courses.
Derek Yates, Head of Creative Lab, said: “At Ravensbourne, we initiate and build proactive partnerships and a tangible connection to the creative economy.
Through collaborations like this one, we aim to build our students resilience and create learning that is relevant beyond graduation.”
Learning with industry is a core part of the Ravensbourne experience – you can read about some of our students’ other collaborations with major brands like Kopparberg and Nike Jordan on our website.