# Site: https://www.reading.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 466
# --------

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk:
Want to know more?
Learn more about the subject you're passionate about from world-class experts.
Experience life on a beautiful, green campus in the heart of a lively town.
Find out what it's like to study at Reading.
Explore our newest research and keep up to date with the latest announcements.
Read about our initiatives and developments in teaching and learning.
Choose from a great selection of rooms to suit your budget and circumstances.
Explore our partnerships, international communities and global research.
The University is a key partner for businesses of all sizes, from multinational corporations to growing, innovative SMEs.
The University of Reading Malaysia offers top-class UK degrees on a vibrant, state-of-the-art campus.
1 Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, based on first degree/other undergraduate, postgraduate (taught), and postgraduate (research) responders.
Find us on a map
satnav postcode: RG6 6UR
satnav postcode for the Earley Gate entrance: RG6 7BE
satnav postcode: RG1 5AQ
satnav postcode: RG9 3AU
+44 (0) 118 987 5123
University of Reading Whiteknights PO Box 217 Reading Berkshire RG6 6AH United Kingdom
© 2024 University of Reading

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/accounting-ug:
We use cookies on reading.ac.uk to improve your experience.
Find out more about our cookie policy .
By continuing to use our site you accept these terms, and are happy for us to use cookies to improve your browsing experience.
Continue using the University of Reading website
Study with Henley Business School and you will be part of a global, high-calibre learning community that will equip you for success in the business world.
Part of the University of Reading, Henley Business School has a worldwide reputation for excellence and is among an elite group of business schools to hold triple-accredited status from the UK, European and US accrediting bodies (AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB).
No matter what degree you choose to study at Henley, you can be sure that you are laying a strong foundation for your future career.
Our academics and distinguished industry experts will help you gain valuable skills relevant for many fast-paced industries.
You will gain a head start in securing jobs in accounting, consultancy, human resources, IT, marketing, operations and general management.
Henley is recognised as one of the top institutions in the UK for accounting and finance, and is currently ranked:
Based at the University of Reading's Whiteknights campus — in the heart of the UK's 'Silicon Valley' — we have strong working relationships with companies, and host regular events which allow students to network and hear from industry leaders.
We are understandably proud of our beautiful parkland campus, voted one of the best open spaces in the UK and awarded the prestigious Green Flag Award on 14 consecutive occasions.
Our campus is at the heart of university life and provides a special sense of community.
If you want to work in trading, investment banking or finance, the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Centre provides uniquely designed degrees in finance, integrating theory with practice.
The courses use three dealing rooms, each of which is equipped with the latest industry simulation software and supported by Refinitiv and Bloomberg terminals.
Here you can learn the secrets of trading, build your own asset portfolio, develop your financial analysis skills by processing complex data, and gain useful exposure to a 'real-life' market setting.
BSc Accounting and Business – The Flying Start Degree Programme
Full Time:  4 Years | Other: 4 years includes guaranteed industry placements in years 2, 3 and 4
BSc Accounting and Finance with Placement Experience
Full Time:  4 Years
BSc Accounting and Finance with Year Abroad
Full Time:  3 Years
BSc Accounting and Finance
BSc Accounting and Management with Foundation
BSc Accounting and Management with Placement Experience
BSc Accounting and Management with Year Abroad
BSc Accounting and Management
BSc Accounting (Beijing Institute of Technology)
© University of Reading

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug:
Agriculture is an exciting and rapidly evolving field of study, encompassing the scientific, practical and business principles behind this varied industry.
With a history spanning more than 130 years of educating the world’s agriculturalists, the University of Reading is consistently highly ranked in the subject league tables.
We are the highest-ranking UK university for this subject area, ranked 20th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 – Agriculture & Forestry).
We’re ranked 6th in the UK for Agriculture and Forestry (in the Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).
Our academics' research influences government policy, and new innovation and industry developments, and this expertise feeds directly into their teaching across many areas, including sustainable land management, crop science, and animal sciences.
Study at a UK leading university for environmental and ethical performance (the University of Reading is ranked 4th in the People and Planet University League, 2024/25).
We have an international mission and ethos, with more than 70 nationalities represented in our staff and student body.
This mix, and the broad range of degrees offered in the wider University, means that you will meet and socialise with people with diverse interests and backgrounds.
Our close and longstanding links with farmers and other land-based industries provide real-life experience and an opportunity for networking and research.
Our degrees are supported by an extensive programme of visits to regional farms, agricultural businesses, enterprises and organisations, including a residential course.
You will also have access to our own 800 hectares of mixed farms and woodland, home to our modern research facilities and commercial farming enterprises.
In BSc Agriculture you will primarily focus on the applied science underpinning agricultural production and will learn how to use biology and technology to meet crop and animal production targets and achieve environmental objectives.
BSc Agricultural Business Management combines in depth study of financial and business management principles for rural enterprises, with understanding of agricultural processes across key sectors.
These courses cover practical skills and can include time spent on university-based farms and on placements.
Guest speakers and other stakeholders of the agricultural industry contribute actively to the courses, giving you the opportunity to build relationships and improve your knowledge of employment options.
You will have the chance to attend farming and rural conferences and seminars, locally and nationally, all of which provide excellent networking opportunities.
You will also have the opportunity to participate in six-week summer placements linked to research undertaken at the University, generally completed between your second and final year.
Possible careers after these degrees include farm management, animal and crop research and consultancy services, and overseas development work.
They are the perfect route into the diverse agriculture sector, its related industries and sustainable rural livelihoods.
The University of Reading ranks 1st in the UK for graduate salary for Agriculture, food and related studies (based on The Telegraph's analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, July 2025).
Studying Agriculture at Reading means you’ll be part of a School committed to empowering change and our academics are working to tackle some of the world’s most pressing issues.
Consideration of global sustainability issues and how they impact all areas of our lives, including the sustainable production of our food, form a key part of our teaching.
BSc Agriculture
BSc Agriculture with a Placement Year
BSc Agriculture with Foundation
BSc Agricultural Business Management
BSc Agricultural Business Management with Placement Year
BSc Agricultural Business Management with Foundation Year
BSc Agriculture with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Agricultural Business Management with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Agricultural Business Management with International Foundation Year - September Entry
Gaining a degree from Reading is recognised as a mark of excellence by employers.
The knowledge gained has allowed me to fulfil my potential.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug:
If you're fascinated by the ancient past, and want to develop an understanding of how diverse aspects of the Greek and Roman worlds – and their neighbours – functioned, this is the subject for you.
Ancient history is the study of the Greek and Roman worlds, a period spanning from 2000 BC to around 600 AD and covering parts of modern Africa, Asia and Europe.
You will learn about these ancient cultures in their political, literary, social, cultural and religious contexts.
From warfare to farming, architecture to oratory, and emperors to slavery, your studies will enhance your understanding of the ancient past, and how it influences the present.
Alongside the history, languages, literature and culture of Greece and Rome, at the University of Reading you can discover ancient Egyptian and Anatolian civilisation, work on digital reconstructions and design your own assignments and projects.
97% of our students said the course is often intellectually stimulating (National Student Survey 2024, 96.55% of responders from the Department of Classics).
Our Department of Classics is considered to be one of the world-leading centres for the study of the ancient world and its legacy.
95% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Classics).
91% of graduates from Classics are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; All levels of study).
BA Ancient History
BA Ancient History and History
BA Ancient History and Archaeology
BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad
BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Professional Placement
From an academic perspective, the course at Reading had everything I could want, offering a wide range of topics to study.
I finished my degree with a sizeable knowledge of the ancient world.
My time at Reading was made equally enjoyable by the friendly, yet professional atmosphere of the Classics Department.
The staff are not only experts in their particular fields, but are also extremely friendly and always willing to help.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/anthropology-ug:
Study human societies across the world, from global cities to nomadic camps.
Anthropology offers a global, cross-cultural perspective that engages with the big questions that concern us all: what it means to be human and to live in society.
Examine humanity from our evolutionary origins to the crowded twenty-first century:
At Reading, you'll study anthropology with archaeology.
Together they unravel the complexities of the past and present, how we evolved, and why we developed such differences and commonalities.
Equipped with this knowledge, anthropologists can help to understand how humanity will affect the future – and adapt to it.
BA Archaeology and Anthropology
BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Study Year Abroad
BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Professional Placement
Why choose anthropology at Reading?

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug:
Archaeology brings together history and science to shine a light on the past.
Archaeology's uniquely long perspective spans from our earliest origins to recent developments that have shaped the modern world: agriculture, urbanisation, capitalism and religion.
At Reading's Department of Archaeology , we are especially focused on those issues from the past that are critical to our shared global future – human diets and health, climate change, inequality and resilience, migration and identity.
You will use material remains to explore, interpret and reconstruct the rich diversity of past cultures.
Sometimes what seem like tiny details can be the start of an exciting journey of discovery, and you never know what you might find.
Topics span thousands of years and focus on people from various societies around the world.
You will cover British, European and Near Eastern archaeology, from the Palaeolithic to the Medieval period.
In addition to taking part in excavations, our courses provide you with the skills to analyse human and animal bones, objects and plant remains in order to understand past societies.
There will be fieldwork opportunities and chances to work with experts on live research projects.
As part of our friendly, supportive Department you will benefit from our dedicated archaeology building, specialist equipment and purpose-built laboratories and have access to our three on-campus museums.
As well as being fun, challenging and immensely rewarding, our archaeology degrees enable you to develop an impressive range of skills, preparing you for many career opportunities.
Our flexible courses are designed to provide a balance of theory and practice; providing you with the opportunity to tailor your degree to your interests and apply what you learn in the real world.
BA Archaeology
BA Archaeology with Professional Placement
BA Archaeology with Study Year Abroad
BA Archaeology and History
BA Archaeology and History with Professional Placement
BA Archaeology and History with Study Year Abroad
BA Museum Studies and Archaeology
BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Professional Placement
BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad
BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with International Foundation Year - January Entry
About the Department

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architectural-engineering-ug:
Learn about integrated approaches in the design, management and operation of efficient buildings in an urban context.
Develop the skills and knowledge to deliver engineering solutions to current and future problems facing the built environment.
Through our Architectural Engineering courses, you will combine the creativity of architectural and building design with a strong technical overview of energy systems and environmental engineering.
This will enable you to develop the wide range of skills necessary to thrive in a sector which increasingly demands that you work across disciplines.
Our close relationships with industry and professional institutions will give you the opportunity to build a valuable network of contacts during your studies.
You can also gain insight into industry by carrying out a paid industrial placement year, or a summer placement, before your final year of study.
The full-time nature of our courses, together with campus-based teaching and our supportive community of staff, students and alumni, creates a sociable, collegiate environment.
We teach the very best of current practice, drawing on a multidisciplinary team of experts with renowned research excellence and extensive experience working with industry.
You will have access to an array of digital technology and software, including building information modelling (BIM), building energy and urban microclimate simulations, and 3D laser scanning.
We also offer an immersive virtual reality “CAVE” that enables you to interact with 3D digitised environments.
The University of Reading is one of the UK’s top-ranking institutions for building.
The University of Reading is also widely recognised for its commitment to sustainability and the environment.
Join a global, connected community of talented individuals within the built environment sector, enabling you to develop connections during your studies that can last throughout your career.
You will gain global insights into the sector from our staff who draw on their wide range of expertise and international experience to feed directly into our degree courses and research activities; many are engaged in overseas projects or working to influence policy around the globe.
1 REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning.
2 REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning.
Scholarships
As part of the cohort joining our architectural engineering courses in 2025, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).
BEng Architectural Engineering
MEng Architectural Engineering
BEng Architectural Engineering with International Foundation Year - September Entry
The buildings and construction sector remains a
critical area for achieving global net zero carbon and resilience goals…

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architecture-ug:
Shape the future of design with a BSc Architecture degree at the University of Reading
Our BSc Architecture programme, designed with industry input, prepares you for tomorrow’s architectural challenges.
At Reading, we see architecture as more than creating buildings – it’s about reimagining spaces to inspire communities and drive positive change.
Our faculty combines professional experience with cutting-edge research.
You’ll benefit from strong industry links, work on live projects, and will have the opportunity to attend field trips across the UK and abroad.
The University of Reading is in the top 150 in the world for Architecture and Built Environment (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025).
Our facilities are designed to inspire creativity and hands-on learning.
Based at our London Road campus, our newly refurbished design studios, open seven days a week, mirror professional architectural offices.
Our green campus provides a peaceful setting and a living test ground for models.
Our museums offer rich sources of creative inspiration.
You’ll have access to:
Following graduation, you’ll be well-placed to further your training as an architect and complete your qualification with our two-year Master of Architecture (MArch) .
You can also pursue careers in graphic design, project management, interior design, set design, photography, and journalism.
Through our Industry and Practice module, you’ll gain professional insight.
Reading’s career schemes, like Thrive and the RIBA mentoring programme, will help you build a strong network.
Our BSc (Hons) Architecture degree is prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) , meeting Part 1 of the requirements for professional architecture qualification.
It is also validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), as a formal recognition of its high professional standards.
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Architecture course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of your three years of the undergraduate degree.
BSc Architecture

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug:
Discover the artist in you through professional practice, experimenting with different media and taking part in exhibitions.
At Reading you will benefit from a combination of art practice, contemporary theory and history.
Explore painting, sculpture (such as welding and casting) and printmaking, examine the exciting potential of new technologies and produce some new and emerging art forms at Reading School of Art.
Reading School of Art specialises in contemporary art.
We believe that emerging and innovative art practices forge new audiences and users.
Our teaching staff are artists, curators and researchers of international standing who are actively involved in the art world.
Debate and constructive criticism are actively encouraged and you will openly discuss your work with peers and teaching staff.
You'll benefit from daily contact with supportive tutors, available every day during term time for tutorials and technical advice, as well as access to a high-profile network of practicing artists and curators.
You will receive your own dedicated studio space, accessible 24 hours a day and seven days a week.
These spaces are a creative, lively and stimulating environment in which to practise, with all years sharing the same area.
There is a high level of activity in the studios, with regular events, screenings, performances and exhibitions.
A student-run gallery and experimental project spaces are also available.
We work with national and international museums, galleries and collections, allowing you to consider the diverse conditions in which art is displayed and received and to gain real-world experience through industry placements.
There are also many opportunities for you to apply to study abroad: Reading School of Art has links with universities in countries such as the USA, Canada, Australia, Taiwan, France, Switzerland and Finland.
Our range of single honours and joint courses will equip you with the knowledge, intellectual ability and the practice-led skills you will need to make an imaginative and effective contribution to the art world.
Follow in the footsteps of some of our alumni and become Turner Prize-nominated artists or world-leading curators.
BA Fine Art
BA Art
BA Art and Creative Writing
BA Art and English Literature
BA Art and Film
BA Art and History of Art
BA Art and Philosophy
BA Art and Psychology
A creative career
Ajay Pabial has set up Art Clubbers CIC, a non-profit community empowering budding creatives, local communities and graduates.
Read Ajay's story

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biochemistry-ug:
Our biochemistry courses at the University of Reading will equip you with a wide range of practical and transferable skills, such as understanding enzyme kinetics, protein identification, data analysis, experimental design, and problem solving.
Throughout your degree, you will be able to tailor your studies and select modules based on your interests.
You will build your knowledge through lectures and laboratory work performed in our state-of-the-art teaching labs, and have the opportunity to undertake an industrial placement with major companies such as GSK and Diamond Light Source.
You will also gain invaluable experience in bioinformatics, and learn to use software to model protein structures and explore the impact of potential mutations.
Our academic teaching staff are experts in their fields.
They work in a wide variety of biomedical and environmental areas, such as obesity, cardiovascular disease, neurodegeneration, endocrinology, and bacterial, viral, and parasitic infections.
You’ll have the opportunity to undertake a research project during your final year, with a chance to get your work published in an internationally recognised scientific journal.
Potential projects include the application of microscopy, gene editing, and models of disease.
You'll also have the opportunity to undertake an internship as part of the Reading Internship Scheme (RIS) .
RIS offers a wide variety of internships across a multitude of sectors, including research internships on campus or with external organisations.
Internships run flexibly throughout the year – both part-time during the semester and full-time during the summer vacation.
BSc Biochemistry
Full Time:  3 years, with the option to include a placement year
BSc Biochemistry with Professional Experience
BSc Biochemistry with Foundation
MSci Biochemistry
MSci Biochemistry with Professional Experience
Full Time:  5 Years

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug:
Explore the inner workings of microbes, discover how medicines work, study the chemistry of life or learn how to protect delicate ecosystems.
Join a university that is ranked in the UK's top 10 for biosciences (the Daily Mail University Guide, 2025).
At Reading, through our biological sciences courses, you'll embark on the fascinating study of the science behind life itself, and humanity's interactions with the natural world.
Topics explored range from the detailed structures of complex biological molecules to the growth and development of multicellular animals and plants.
Biology underpins important human services and industries including healthcare, agriculture, commercial manufacturing and energy.
Our biological sciences courses do not have a common first year, so you will be able to study your chosen subject right from the start.
You'll also be able to tailor your studies to suit your interests through a range of optional modules.
Our courses also have a strong practical element, and you can learn a range of laboratory and fieldwork skills.
You may even have the chance to take part in research with a global impact.
As the home of the School of Biological Sciences, our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building offers state-of-the-art research and teaching laboratories, seminar rooms, and plenty of study and social space, including a café.
The building also houses the Cole Museum of Zoology .
The collection, featuring over 3,500 natural history specimens, provides a fantastic resource for biological scientists and the wider community.
There is also a wonderful array of wildlife on our award-winning Whiteknights campus, creating many opportunities for fieldwork on site.
Additionally, you can apply your scientific knowledge to a range of other habitats through our optional field courses.
These normally last between one and two weeks and take place in locations such as Devon, Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands, Iceland, Spain and Colombia.
All of our lecturers are involved in research and you will be taught by experts in their fields.
Our courses have a strong practical basis, and you will learn key cellular, molecular and biochemical techniques, including live cell microscopy, DNA and protein technology, microbial and molecular genetics, and cell culture.
97% of School of Biological Sciences students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024, 97.31% of responders).
During your final year, you will have the chance to spend 11 weeks working in a lab on a research project.
Past projects have included topics such as coronary heart disease, gene therapy for muscular dystrophies, stem cell biology, mosquito ecology and public understanding of evolution.
BSc Biological Sciences
BSc Biological Sciences with Professional Experience
BSc Biological Sciences with Foundation
BSc Biomedical Science
BSc Biomedical Science with Foundation
BSc Biomedical Science with Professional Experience
MSci Biomedical Science
MSci Biomedical Science with Professional Experience
BSc Medical Science
BSc Medical Science with Foundation
BSc Medical Science with Professional Experience
MSci Medical Science
MSci Medical Science with Professional Experience
BSc Microbiology
BSc Microbiology with Professional Experience
BSc Microbiology with Foundation
MSci Microbiology
MSci Microbiology with Professional Experience
BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation
BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation with Professional Experience
BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation with Foundation
BSc Zoology
BSc Zoology with Professional Experience
BSc Zoology with Foundation
BEng Biomedical Engineering
BEng Biomedical Engineering with Professional Experience
After two years of studying Biomedical Sciences I continue to find the complexity of the human body fascinating, from the intricate features of intracellular organelles to whole organ systems.
I enjoy learning about how the human body functions and where things can go wrong in diseases.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biomedical-engineering-ug:
Biomedical Engineering is the application of engineering methods and approaches in healthcare and biology.
At Reading – with the 3rd highest overall student satisfaction score for Bioengineering, Medical and Biomedical Engineering subjects (National Student Survey, 2021) – our aim is to inspire and train the future graduate engineers that will develop the next generation of medical devices, health diagnostic systems and biocompatible prostheses.
We invent technologies to diagnose disease at early stages, restore lost body functions and improve quality of life for patients and the elderly.
Our courses bring together 60 full-time expert academics, specialising in subjects such as electronics, physiology, robotics, genetics and more.
We offer BEng and PhD degrees, so you can choose the level of specialisation you wish to pursue.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biomedical-sciences-ug:
Study biomedical sciences to gain a deep understanding of the body's functions and diseases.
You can choose to study this across the system in medical science or specialise in a specific area such as pharmacology, biochemistry or microbiology, or focus on a specific career path with our Physician Associate or Biomedical Science degrees.
By studying healthcare, you can help:
You’ll conduct research and laboratory studies in our new, £60m Health and Life Sciences building.
The new home of the School of Biological Sciences features:
Learn from experts in the field
Our programmes have been developed in partnership with local NHS healthcare trusts and hospitals to ensure you will have the skills and knowledge needed for a career in healthcare.
You will be taught by experienced NHS staff and academics whose research has improved outcomes and understanding in the sector.
Excellent links with industry
We have a well-established network of clinical partners hosted on campus and regionally, including the Royal Berkshire Hospital and Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust and local bio and pharma industries.
BSc Pharmacology
BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry
BSc Pharmacology with Foundation
MPAS Physician Associate Studies

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/bioveterinary-sciences-ug:
Study an interdisciplinary subject that enables you to make a difference to the health and well-being of animals in a variety of settings – including farms, zoos, and domestic households.
Animal health and welfare are at the heart of all sustainable human-animal relationships, whether keeping animals for food production, companionship or leisure.
Our bioveterinary sciences courses enable you to gain in-depth knowledge of animal physiology – from molecular to whole organism level – and offer a holistic approach to understanding the factors influencing animal health and welfare.
We are the highest-ranking UK university for this subject area, ranked 20th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 – Agriculture & Forestry).
You'll explore animal nutrition, behaviour and environment, as well as infectious and non-infectious disease.
You will benefit from excellent teaching and research facilities, including campus-based labs and our renowned Centre for Dairy Research (CEDAR) – a farm animal research facility based at our farm in Arborfield.
You'll have the opportunity to visit a range of animal-based organisations, such as veterinary practices, zoos, equine centres and farms, to gain real-world experience.
Your scientific research and transferable skills development is very important to us, which is why we offer specialist hands-on research modules and the opportunity to undertake an individual research project in your final year.
We’ll also help you explore the breadth of the industry and develop your employability skills throughout the course.
Studying bioveterinary sciences at the University of Reading will equip you with the expertise to succeed in a wide range of animal and veterinary based careers – from working in veterinary labs to becoming a researcher or animal nutritionist.
It is also a perfect stepping stone to a further degree in veterinary medicine, or a postgraduate degree in a more specialist aspect of bioveterinary science.
BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Foundation
BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Placement Year
BSc Bioveterinary Sciences

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/building-and-surveying-ug:
Get to grips with the latest technology used in the creation of buildings, and gear up for a career in the design, creation and assessment of new structures.
The University of Reading is ranked 2nd for Building in the Complete University Guide 2026.
At Reading, you'll develop a global outlook and join a connected community of students, staff and alumni.
Our School has a friendly, collegiate atmosphere, thanks to the full-time nature of our courses, our campus-based teaching, and our supportive community of staff, students and alumni.
You will join a network of talented individuals within the construction and built environment sectors, enabling you to develop connections during your studies that can last throughout your career.
Gain insights into the global construction sector from our staff who draw on their wide range of expertise and international experience to feed directly into our degree courses and research activities; many are engaged in overseas construction projects or working to influence policy around the globe.
You will also have access to the latest digital technology and software, including the use of building information modelling (BIM).
You can also work with a range of cutting-edge technology including Oculus Rift head-mounted displays, immersive virtual reality environments, laser scanners and 3D printers.
Improving the sustainability of the built environment is another central theme that runs through all our undergraduate degree programmes.
Our courses are designed with industry in mind and grounded in practice.
As part of the sector, we understand the industries with which we align, we place emphasis on staying in touch with an ever-changing environment and we engage with current challenges.
You will benefit from site visits and experiential learning that enable you to develop a deeper appreciation of projects.
Benefit from our extensive links with industry and build your own network of contacts through our series of events, collaborations and placement opportunities.
Many of our academic staff have direct experience of working in industry, and continue to be active in consultancy, contributing to the policy agendas of the government, industry bodies and professional institutions.
Our four building and surveying courses share a common first two years; this enables you to wait until towards the end of your second year to choose which course is the right fit for you.
This unique flexibility allows you to acquire an in-depth knowledge across the construction spectrum before making an informed decision.
You can begin your studies with us even if you are uncertain exactly which degree is best for you and without compromising your future.
100% of our research is of international standing  and 100% of our research impact has been classed 'outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning).
Our multidisciplinary team of experts teach the best of current practice, and your studies will be enhanced by their research excellence and extensive industry experience.
Construction accounts for 6.4% of the UK's gross domestic product (GDP) with approximately 2.1 million workers (Office for National Statistics, Construction Statistics, Great Britain: 2020).
Overall, 98% of graduates from Construction Management and Engineering are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation; of those in full-time employment, 97% are in graduate-level roles (Based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes first degree Construction Management and Engineering responders).
As part of the cohort joining our building and surveying courses in 2025, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).
BSc Building Surveying
BSc Building Surveying with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Building Surveying with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Construction Management
BSc Construction Management with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Construction Management with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Construction Management and Surveying
BSc Construction Management and Surveying with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Construction Management and Surveying with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Quantity Surveying
BSc Quantity Surveying with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Quantity Surveying with International Foundation Year - January Entry
By studying at the University of Reading, students benefit from world-class teaching and a second-to-none foundation in the field of construction.
Because the University maintains close links with all the major firms within the industry there are great opportunities when it comes to placements, work experience and full-time employment.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug:
On average, our students earn an annual salary of £49,300 five years after graduating.
This is 35.4% more than the average graduate salary after five years for this subject across all universities (based on The Telegraph's analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, Business and Management, June 2025).
BA Modern Languages and Business
BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics
BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics with Placement Experience
BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business)
BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Placement Year
BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation)
BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Placement Year
BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour)
BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) with Placement Year
BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) with Year Abroad
BSc Business and Management (Marketing)
BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Placement Year
BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Business and Management
BSc Business and Management with Placement Year
BSc Business and Management with Study Year Abroad
BSc Business and Management with Foundation
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing with Placement Year
BSc International Business and Management
BSc International Business and Management with Study Year Abroad
BSc International Business and Management with Placement Year
BSc International Business and Management with a Modern Language
BSc International Business and Management with a Modern Language with Placement Year
BSc International Business and Management with a Modern Language with Study Year Abroad
LLB Law with International Business
BSc Business and Management (MUST 2+2 programme)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/chemistry-ug:
Chemistry is the science that shapes the world we will live in tomorrow.
Chemistry is the science that has the most direct and dramatic impact on our lives.
Chemists design, synthesise, analyse and study molecules, the building blocks of everything from materials to medicines.
Central to modern chemistry is the quest to make new molecules as efficiently and conveniently as possible, with minimum impact on the environment.
Study at the University of Reading and you will benefit from our £4.5-million, purpose-built Chemical Analysis Facility, our recently renovated undergraduate laboratories, and unrivalled support from our award-winning and nationally recognised staff.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, lab practical classes, workshops and small-group tutorials.
If you would like to spend a year gaining work experience, our Year in Industry courses are the perfect solution and give you the opportunity to spend 12 months working in the chemical or pharmaceutical industry, in the UK or abroad.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to work alongside staff members and undertake research in an area of your choice.
Our research covers a wide range of areas, so you’ll have a variety of fascinating projects to choose from – a number of students have even been authors on published research papers.
100% of our research is of international standing [1] and 100% of our research impact has been classed "outstanding" or "very considerable" [2].
We have excellent relationships with companies such as AstraZeneca, BP, Cytec, DuPont, GSK, Henkel, Johnson Matthey, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Syngenta and Unilever.
Overall, 97% of graduates from Chemistry are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all Chemistry responders).
Our chemistry degrees are accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) and you will receive free RSC membership in your first year.
[1] REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Chemistry.
[2] REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Chemistry.
BSc Chemistry with a Year in Industry or Research
BSc Chemistry with Cosmetic Science with a Year in Industry
BSc Chemistry with Cosmetic Science with Foundation Year
BSc Chemistry with Cosmetic Science
BSc Chemistry with Foundation
BSc Chemistry
BSc Pharmaceutical Chemistry with Foundation
BSc Pharmaceutical Chemistry with a Year in Industry or Research
BSc Pharmaceutical Chemistry

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/classics-ug:
Experience the rich and enduring civilisations of ancient Greece and Rome.
These cultures lie at the very heart of western civilisation, and resonate throughout the world.
Whether or not you have already studied ancient Greece and Rome, we invite you to explore the history, art and culture of the ancient world on one of our highly flexible degrees: we offer programmes in Classics, Classical Studies and Ancient History.
Our Classics degree includes Ancient Greek and Latin in all three years, offering the opportunity to explore a broad range of literary texts in their original languages.
Classical Studies examines the civilisations, art, literature and religions of the ancient world, as well as their subsequent traditions.
Ancient History studies the politics, economy, society, culture and religion of the classical world, from the Mediterranean heartland to parts of modern Africa, Asia and Europe.
There is no requirement for prior study of Ancient Greek, Latin, Ancient History or Classical Civilisation for any of our degree programmes.
Whatever your interests and background, our wide-ranging and flexible courses offer stimulating options.
You can develop an advanced knowledge of Ancient Greek, Latin, and even hieroglyphic Egyptian; work on digital reconstructions; or gain hands-on experience with unique artefacts from the Ure Museum, the University's internationally important collection of Greek and Egyptian antiquities.
Our findings feed directly into your learning, with 97% of our students saying our courses are often intellectually stimulating (National Student Survey 2024, 96.55% of responders from the Department of Classics), and 95% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions Classics).
You can apply to study abroad on all our degrees, with bursaries for independent travel available, as well as popular departmental trips.
The British School at Athens and the British School at Rome both offer summer school opportunities.
We also have close links to overseas institutions in Europe, Canada, the USA and Australia.
You can apply to spend one term or one academic year abroad as part of your degree.
The skills you'll develop through studying a Classics or Classical Studies degree at Reading are highly transferable and will prepare you well for whatever career path you choose to pursue.
BA Classical Studies and English Literature
BA Classical Studies
BA Classics
BA Museum and Classical Studies
BA Philosophy and Classical Studies with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy and Classical Studies

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/climate-science-ug:
Exploring the science of the atmosphere is not only essential for weather forecasting, but for solving some of the biggest environmental challenges.
Are you keen to use the principles of physics and mathematics in new ways to help find solutions to the critical problems we face in the natural environment?
If so, by undertaking a degree with the University of Reading's Department of Meteorology, you will join other talented scientists who are committed to pushing frontiers.
In order to fully understand complex issues such as climate change, ozone depletion, atmospheric pollution and even space weather, an in-depth scientific knowledge of the physics of the atmosphere, oceans and space is key.
The Department's research spans the spectrum from the smallest examples of atmospheric turbulence to large-scale climate patterns such as jet streams and El Niño.
Furthermore, our undergraduate courses are accredited by the Royal Meteorological Society.
Choose a meteorology degree and explore all aspects of meteorology and climate, including atmospheric science and oceanography.
You'll join a department that provides an excellent student learning experience.
Many of our excellent teaching staff are world leaders in their fields and a number are authors on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) or Fellows of the Royal Society.
Our teaching involves an exciting mixture of lectures, laboratory classes, practical weather forecasting and fieldwork.
BSc Meteorology and Climate
MMet Meteorology and Climate with a Year in Oklahoma
BSc Meteorology and Climate with International Foundation Year - September Entry
Without doubt, the Meteorology Department in Reading is one of the best and most recognised in the world.
My degree was a great experience and kick-started my career.
I would happily and heartily recommend a Meteorology degree at Reading to anyone interested in weather or climate.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/computer-science-ug:
Modern society has been transformed by computers and mobile devices, and computer science is at the forefront of this transformation.
Come to Reading, in the heart of the UK’s 'Silicon Valley', to join the computer scientists helping to drive these changes.
Computer science is about every aspect of computing in our daily lives.
As technology advances, the importance of storing, processing and communicating digital information increases.
The combination of technical and soft skills we provide means that you will be ready for employment immediately after graduation.
Computer science is constantly evolving, so new ideas and international discoveries are built into our courses.
You will gain a grounding in core areas, and will have the option to specialise in the areas that interest you the most.
Our courses are accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) – the Chartered Institute for IT.
You will learn from expert lecturers who use state-of-the-art methods of teaching, whether it be team-based learning or online learning, building on our highly successful short online courses.
In the final-year project you will have opportunities to join live research projects, or work on your ideas to produce workable products that can be used in various applications.
Our excellent facilities and software support your core studies, but also ensure that you are able to pursue your own projects and interests.
We have purpose-built computer labs with workstations that run both Windows and Linux operating systems, virtual reality headsets, mobile phone and Raspberry pi devices, external web hosting via cPanel and a specialist wireless network to support mobile robots.
A wide range of software packages are used to support the Computer Science curriculum, including tools for software/apps development, systems modelling, data science, mathematical manipulation and more.
Major international companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Sony and Nationwide are actively involved in our courses through both student placements and our Industrial Advisory Board, ensuring that our courses match industry requirements.
Reading has the fourth highest number of digital tech organisations in the UK ("UK’s Top Digital Tech Cities", March 2020, The Data City) and in 2023 ranked 2nd in The Data City’s list of UK AI hotspots .
Companies such as Microsoft, Oracle, Cisco Systems, and Intel have their UK headquarters nearby, and often employ our students after graduation.
Reading is also home to the Thames Valley AI Hub (TVAI Hub), which pulls together the incredible artificial intelligence, machine learning and big data community of academics, researchers, technologists, clinicians and business strategists in the Thames Valley.
This provides an opportunity for everyone to learn, collaborate, share knowledge, and explore and develop business opportunities and partnerships.
Reading is just 23 minutes from London by fast train and has excellent transport connections to airports, and road and rail hubs.
Our degrees will prepare you for your chosen career in this constantly evolving field through the development of transferable and subject-specific skills.
Our graduates use their skills to innovate in areas such as data science and machine learning, artificial intelligence, programming and software engineering, data management and integration, distributed systems such as blockchain technologies, and cloud computing.
Aside from the digital tech industry, studying Computer Science can lead to a career in a range of alternative sectors, such as aerospace and defence, healthcare, manufacturing, retail, and finance.
Potential job roles include software engineering, programming, cybersecurity, network implementation, database design, data analytics, systems testing and integration, website development, and IT consulting.
BSc Computer Science
BSc Computer Science with Industrial Year
BSc Mathematics with Computer Science
BSc Mathematics with Computer Science with a Placement Year
Technological solutions
Computer science graduate Marty Sweet is helping schools across the UK deliver secure online learning for students.
Read Marty's story
I chose to study at Reading due to its strong reputation, both specifically in my degree course and as a university as a whole, as well as its high rate of graduate employment for my course.
This is due in part to its excellent location among some of the largest global technology companies.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/microbiology-ug:
Our microbiology course  at the University of Reading will allow you to gain the practical skills you need for your future career.
As part of your degree, you will attend practical classes in newly equipped teaching laboratories, safely working with clinical samples, as well as environmental samples sourced from our biodiverse Whiteknights campus.
The University of Reading is one of the few universities in the UK offering a microbiology field course as part of their degree, giving you the possibility to study microorganisms that inhabit unusual environments  in the Arctic or in the tropics.
Our teaching staff include leading experts in microbiology.
They conduct research into important and relevant topics such as antimicrobial resistance, vaccine development and food poisoning.
Under their  teaching, you will explore the fundamentals of microbiology and learn how the different types of microbes affect our health, food and environment.
You will also learn core microbiology practical techniques, including isolating and purifying bacteria, fungi, and bacteriophages from food and environmental samples in our brand-new laboratories.
You will also study core biology – cellular and molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and human and animal physiology.
During your final year you’ll then have the chance to put into practice all the skills you’ve learned and conduct an original research project.
We offer several microbiology placement opportunities.
The School of Biological Sciences has links to many local companies, including the RSSL (Reading Scientific Services Ltd) microbiology section.
Additionally, we also offer placements such as part of the Reading Internship Scheme (RIS) .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/museum-studies-ug:
Study Museum Studies at the University of Reading and take your first step towards a career in the heritage sector or as a curator.
Communicate to an audience through the use of artefacts, develop the skills needed to engage with a number of different museum careers and examine the theories behind museums and their role in society.
We focus on the  contemporary theory and practice of museum studies.
You will learn to think and research like a museum professional while gaining hands-on experience at our three on-site museums and special collections.
You'll be encouraged to research the environment that artefacts are displayed in, how they are catalogued, and the meanings that they hold for different audiences.
You will learn how to design, create and evaluate your own exhibitions.
Study alongside professional curators, conservators, archivists, and learning and engagement specialists on these exciting and individual Museum Studies undergraduate degrees.
Work with specialists
You will gain hands-on experience working with museum objects alongside professional museum and archive staff employed across the University's Museums and Collections.
This service incorporates the Ure Museum of Classical Archaeology, the Museum of English Rural Life, and the Cole Museum of Zoology.
Visit the Museum Studies website.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/nutrition-ug:
The science of nutrition is vital to our individual and collective wellbeing.
As consumers grow more aware of the importance of healthy eating, nutritionists become increasingly important to the food industry and society as a whole.
Explore the links between nutrition and health at the University of Reading.
The University of Reading is a world authority on human nutrition, food chemistry, chemical engineering, and microbiology.
We are in the top 10 universities for food science in the UK (7th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025), and we are ranked 1st in the UK and 22nd in the world for Agriculture and Forestry (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2024).
Our staff across departments are actively engaged in world-class research and will tailor their teaching to reflect changing trends and emerging technologies within the sector.
In the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences , you will have access to one of the largest ranges of dedicated food and nutritional sciences facilities in a UK university.
These include:
Overall, 94% of graduates from Food and Nutritional Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all Food and Nutritional Sciences responders).
Graduates from our nutrition courses will be eligible to apply to become a Registered Associate Nutritionist with the Association for Nutrition via the direct entry pathway, providing a clear and respected marker of your status as a nutrition professional.
BSc Nutrition and Food Science with Professional Training
BSc Nutrition and Food Science
BSc Nutrition with Foundation
BSc Nutrition with Professional Training
BSc Nutrition
I have had a keen interest in nutrition and its impact on human health for several years.
I chose Reading’s combined Nutrition & Food Science degree because I believe that to be able to understand nutrition and its impact on society today, it is necessary to understand the complete food chain as it operates from ‘farm to plate’.
The combination of academic subjects and hands-on work in the department’s pilot plant was one of the aspects of the course that I particularly enjoyed.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/pharmacology-ug:
Study pharmacology at the University of Reading and develop key skills sought by the pharmaceutical industry.
We've aligned our programmes with the British Pharmacological Society's core curricula, providing you with knowledge and skills that are recognised by employers.
Your learning will also focus on bioinformatics and how to analyse large biological data sets – a key requirement for pharmacologists.
Our pharmacology courses will not result in qualification to work as a pharmacist.
Please refer to our MPharm Pharmacy or MPharm Pharmacy with Preparatory Year courses if this is the route you wish to follow.
These programmes teach you the essentials of pharmacology, including:
We have recently invested £60m in our new Health and Life Sciences Building, which provides:
Reading is one of the UK's top 10 universities for pharmacy and pharmacology (the Daily Mail University Guide, 2024).
We are located near the headquarters of several pharmaceutical companies, offering you great opportunities for networking.
You will also have the option to spend a year in industry with our four-year BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry .
On average, our students earn an annual salary of £46,000 five years after graduating, and the University of Reading ranks 4th in the UK for graduate salary for Pharmacology, toxicology and pharmacy.*
*Based on The Telegraph, August 2024, analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/pharmacy-ug:
If you're passionate about healthcare and would like to become an expert on the safe and effective use of medicines, our MPharm Pharmacy degree is for you.
The University of Reading is one of the UK's top universities for pharmacy and pharmacology (ranked 10th in the Daily Mail University Guide 2024).
An MPharm is the only degree that will allow you to become a qualified pharmacist.
After graduation and completing a Foundation Training Year, you will be able to register with the General Pharmaceutical Council.
Our MPharm course will set you on the path to a career as a qualified pharmacist, with 98% of our pharmacy graduates in work or further study within 15 months of graduation.
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes MPharm Pharmacy responders.)
We use diverse and integrated teaching methods that combine science with practice, and use research-led case studies in our teaching.
You’ll develop your research skills throughout your studies, and spend part of your final year working alongside internationally recognised researchers.
Past research topics have included molecular pharmacology, medical technology, and drug synthesis, analysis and formulation.
You will also benefit from lectures in business and leadership, run by our award-winning Henley Business School.
This unique feature of our MPharm degree will equip you with the knowledge and skills required to manage people in your future career.
88% of our students agreed that staff in the Department of Pharmacy are good at explaining things (National Student Survey, 2022).
Purpose-built facilities and modern technologies allow an exciting and challenging curriculum to be delivered in an innovative way.
In our Clinical Skills Suite, you'll develop the skills required to effectively contribute to the multidisciplinary care of patients.
You'll find everything you need to gain hands-on experience, including simulations of community pharmacies, consulting rooms, and a four-bed hospital ward.
We also use professional dispensing software and real medicines in order to build up your experience of key processes and handling medicinal products.
Our MPharm course is accredited by the pharmacy regulator, the General Pharmaceutical Council, and has been designed to reflect the changing roles of pharmacists.
On average, our students earn an annual salary of £42,700 five years after graduating, and the University of Reading ranks 5th in the UK for graduate salary for pharmacology, toxicology and pharmacy.
(Based on The Telegraph's analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, June 2025).
MPharm Pharmacy with Preparatory Year
MPharm Pharmacy

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/philosophy-ug:
What is the best way to live?
What can we know about the world and ourselves?
What is the true nature of reality?
Examine some of our most fundamental ideas about truth, reality, right and wrong and challenge society's views about them.
If you enjoy a challenging debate or continually question the world we live in and how we live, philosophy could well be the subject for you.
Philosophy is an examination of the reasoning behind our views on a wide range of big topics, such as how one should live, what humans can know and the nature of reality.
It challenges many of our assumptions about what we know and how we should live.
It is concerned with how different views of the world clash or fit together, and with how different perspectives – moral, scientific, religious, metaphysical, personal – may be reconciled.
Studying philosophy will equip you with the ability to think logically, to evaluate arguments critically, to analyse and present complex ideas, and to challenge your own views and those of other people.
Our lecturers are experts in a wide variety of philosophical topics.
Their particular strengths lie in moral philosophy and philosophy of the mind and language.
You will also have the chance to study non-Western philosophies, especially Indian philosophy.
We teach you the skills you need step-by-step, so that you are prepared for modules in specialised areas of philosophy, taught by leading experts, and featuring strong input from their research.
A lively and friendly department awaits you.
There is always lots going on, both academically and socially — weekly visiting speakers, a thriving, student-run Philosophy Society and opportunities for work placements and study abroad.
You will graduate with skills in clear thinking, logical analysis and the critical assessment of argument.
These skills are greatly valued in a variety of professional careers such as law, politics, management and marketing.
We offer flexible degrees, which you can tailor to your interests as they develop.
BA Ethics, Value and Philosophy with Placement Experience
BA Ethics, Value and Philosophy
BA History and Philosophy
BA Philosophy and English Literature with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy and English Literature
BA Philosophy and International Relations with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy and International Relations
BA Philosophy and Politics with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy and Politics
BA Philosophy with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy
BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics with Placement Experience
BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics
BA Psychology and Philosophy

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/physician-associate-ug:
Train as a physician associate at the University of Reading and prepare for a rewarding career in the health sector.
Physician associates work under the supervision of doctors in hospitals and GP practices, supporting the diagnosis and treatment of patients.
We work closely with our local NHS primary care providers, and local NHS Hospital Trusts to deliver our programmes.
You will be taught by practising healthcare professionals alongside academics, offering you an insight into current practice.
Your training will involve:
Our programmes meet the requirements set out by the General Medical Council (GMC), providing you with skills that are transferable across the NHS.
Following on from the Leng Review , we are expecting to change the name of our MPAS Physician Associate/MSc Physician Associate programme.
We will also be reviewing the information listed here on career outcomes.
Before making any changes, the University is awaiting guidance from the General Medical Council (our accrediting body) and the government on the recommendations they wish to take forward.
If any key changes are made to the programme, they will be set out on these webpages.
All affected current and prospective students who have received an offer will be informed.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/politics-ug:
How do we determine who is a terrorist?
What is causing the rise of far-right parties across the EU?
And how can the international community best respond to conflict in the Middle East?
If these sorts of complex questions fascinate you, you’ll love studying politics and international relations with us .
This is an opportunity for you to learn more about the world’s most topical political issues and address them in a stimulating environment where discussion is quite simply the way we work.
We've designed our courses to be flexible, enabling you to choose optional modules that reflect your interests.
Moreover, you can gain a direct insight into real-world political processes through innovative political simulations, integrated work placements and hands-on tasks.
Our Model United Nations, US Foreign Policy and Middle East simulations give you the opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills to a scenario that mimics real life, while our Media and Politics module involves you in producing the day's political news.
We also offer an extensive programme of guest speakers and visiting experts, and a range of placement and study abroad opportunities.
97% of our research outputs are rated ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’, meaning that the University of Reading is 6th highest in the UK for research outputs (Times Higher Education analysis of the latest REF 2021 – Politics and International Studies, when scoring by GPA Output).
Your learning is informed by our world-leading research and is led by expert staff who have direct experience of the world of politics and international affairs.
Most of your learning time will be spent in small seminar groups, allowing you to interact directly with staff and other students and add your own voice to the discussion.
Studying with us will prepare you for your future career.
Our combination of skills development, placements and practical modules has meant that 91% of graduates from Politics and International Relations are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation.
(Based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2022, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019/20; includes first degree Politics and International Relations responders.)
BA English Literature and Politics
BA History and International Relations
BA History and Politics
BA International Relations and Economics with Placement Year
BA International Relations and Economics
BA Modern Languages and International Relations
BA Politics and Economics with a Placement Year
BA Politics and Economics
BA Politics and International Relations with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BA Politics and International Relations with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BA Politics and International Relations with a Placement Year
BA Politics and International Relations
BA War, Peace and International Relations with a Placement Year
BA War, Peace and International Relations
From Reading to a career in journalism
During his BA Politics and International Relations degree, Evan Hall worked on a politics radio show and interviewed visiting speakers.
He now uses the skills developed during his studies in his role as a Production Journalist with ITV.
Read Evan's story

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/psychology-ug:
Are you interested in how the human mind develops over a lifetime?
Do you wonder how we perceive the world around us?
Or would you like to delve into the inner workings of the brain?
In psychology you'll explore the inner workings of the world's most complex machine: the human brain.
You'll also leave with a wide range of transferable skills including data handling, scientific analysis, problem solving and communication.
You will be taught by experts who are passionate about the study of the human mind.
Our clinical psychology modules give you a direct insight into professional practice through our on-site NHS clinics.
We have a longstanding reputation for research excellence; for example, the hazard perception component of the UK driving theory test was developed at Reading.
99% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience) and 100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience).
As well as mastering the core areas of psychology, required for accreditation by the British Psychological Society (BPS), you will also be able to take additional modules to suit your specific interests, including modules from other subjects.
You can also apply to spend a semester abroad at one of our overseas partner institutions.
During the final year, you will carry out an original piece of research on a topic of your choice; these are exceptionally well resourced and you may even have the opportunity to present your work at conferences or in publications.
Past projects have included the effects of emotion on cognition, the effects of Huntingtonʼs disease on quality of life, and using puppets to investigate children’s cognitive abilities.
BSc Psychology
BSc Psychology with Professional Placement
BSc Psychology with Foundation
BSc Psychology with International Foundation Year - September Entry
MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical)
BSc Psychology with Criminology
BSc Psychology with Criminology with Professional Placement
BSc Psychology with Neuroscience
BSc Psychology and Language Sciences
We offer a number of free subject taster sessions, virtually and in person, to show you what it would be like to study your subject at the University of Reading.
Please visit our subject tasters page for more information.
At the forefront of research

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/real-estate-and-planning-ug:
Every day we are influenced by the built environment around us.
Offices, shops, industrial buildings, houses and the surrounding countryside all have an impact on the quality of our lives.
Have you ever wondered how those properties are developed, how much they are worth, or who is responsible for managing them?
Are you interested in how towns or cities develop or how decisions are made about new housing schemes, transport systems and leisure facilities?
Our courses provide you with the opportunity to explore these questions and more so you'll be equipped to manage and influence the future environment.
Our staff are world leaders in their fields.
You can expect to be taught by internationally renowned experts, with a wealth of academic and professional experience.
Our courses have full accreditation from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
Each course provides a high-quality degree and a direct route into the property and planning professions.
Employers of our graduates include real estate advisers, property developers, planning consultancies and financial institutions.
95% of Real Estate and Planning students are in work and/or further study 15 months after the end of their course (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23; includes UK domiciled, full-time, first-degree Real Estate and Planning respondents).
As a Real Estate and Planning student, you’ll benefit from support from the Reading Real Estate Foundation (RREF) , a charity that aims to:
RREF offers Real Estate and Planning students a mentoring programme with industry professionals, careers events, financial support and more.
BSc Real Estate Development and Planning
BSc Real Estate Finance
BSc Real Estate with Foundation
BSc Real Estate

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/sociology-ug:
Explore core principles of contemporary sociology and deepen your understanding of the pressing social issues facing us in today's ever changing world.
At the University of Reading, you will explore the processes which underpin social order and social change, shaping individuals, groups, and institutions.
Our courses are focused on pressing contemporary issues such as:
You will benefit from a multi-disciplinary perspective helping you analyse complex dynamics from different angles.
Building a strong knowledge of sociological theories, you can also explore topics in other subjects like criminology, politics, education, psychology and philosophy to complement your learning and develop your critical thinking.
You will be joining a university that is at the forefront of trying to improve the planet and the world we live in.
Your learning is informed by our world-leading research and is led by experts in specialist areas such as criminal justice, political violence, migration and border control, youth justice, feminism and gender politics.
At Reading, you can complete an integrated professional placement between your second and third years.
If you choose to study Sociology and Criminology, you can also apply for a variety of voluntary placements with Thames Valley Police, Death Penalty Clinic and Elizabeth Fry Charity.
Throughout your degree, you will build strong research, analytical and communication skills.
You will develop subject-specific knowledge and prepare for a variety of careers such as social work, journalism, media, government, youth work, NGOs, and more.
BSc Sociology and Criminology with a Placement Year
BSc Sociology and Criminology
BSc Sociology with a Placement Year
BSc Sociology

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/spanish-ug:
Spain and the countries of Latin America together form a key economic and political presence on the international scene, and are known for their extraordinary cultural diversity and fascinating history.
Studying Spanish in the Department of Languages and Cultures is a life-changing experience that gives you an in-depth knowledge of the Spanish language and more broadly of the diverse cultures of the many countries around the globe where Spanish is spoken.
You can study a wide range of optional modules in Spanish and Latin American culture, history, literature, politics and film with staff who are internationally recognised experts.
In the latest National Student Survey, 98% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024, 97.87% of responders from the Department of Languages and Cultures .) Our researchers are also world-class – 100% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions Modern Languages and Linguistics).
In The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025, the University is ranked 7th in the UK for Iberian languages.
You can study Spanish as one of the options in our BA Modern Languages programme: either on its own, in combination with another language, or with another subject, such as Economics, English, History, International Relations or Business.
In each year you will study a Spanish language module (starting from beginners, intermediate or advanced level in the first year, and achieving near-native fluency in the final year).
Alongside the language module, you will take a number of cultural modules (the exact number of cultural modules you can take depends on whether you are studying Spanish on its own, or in combination with another language or another subject).
Our modules are inspired by the research expertise of our staff, who bring their in-depth knowledge of, and their passion for, Spanish and Latin American Studies into the classroom.
You will spend up to a year in a Spanish-speaking country (our year abroad destinations include placements in Latin America as well as Spain), studying at a partner institution, undertaking a work placement or working as a British Council language teaching assistant.
This allows you to immerse yourself in the culture and develop your language to a high level.
The core language module in the second year will equip you with the skills and knowledge required to work and live abroad.
By the time you graduate, you can expect to be able to write and speak fluently in Spanish.
Well-qualified linguists are in short supply in the UK, so there has never been a better time to study a modern language.
96% of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes first degree Languages and Cultures responders.)
BA Modern Languages and Economics
BA Modern Languages and English Language
BA Modern Languages and English Literature
BA Modern Languages and History
BA Modern Languages (3 years)
BA Modern Languages (4 years)
BA Spanish and International Development
Spanish is so much better than it was at school.
We get to do more Spanish speaking, and the lecturers are more engaging.
They encourage you to go beyond what you do in class and explore for yourself the culture and language.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/speech-and-language-therapy-ug:
Explore the science behind language, and learn how to diagnose and treat communication and swallowing disorders.
Language is at the heart of human life.
Its study is crucial to our understanding of ourselves as individuals, as members of society and as a species.
At Reading, ranked 1st in the UK for Speech & Language Therapy (Complete University Guide, 2026), we offer you the opportunity to study all aspects of this most complex form of human behaviour.
MSci Speech and Language Therapy
We are currently accepting applications for the MSci Speech and Language Therapy for the 2026/2027 academic year.
Applications for the 2025/2026 academic year are now closed.
An exciting four-year pre-registration degree for students who wish to qualify as speech and language therapists.
This clinically focused programme prepares you for professional practice through a blend of academic learning and real-world experience.
BSc Language Sciences and Psychology
If you’re interested in the science of communication and the human mind, but don’t necessarily want to become an SLT, this flexible course offers a broader pathway through language and psychology.
Speech and language therapists (SLTs) assess and treat people with speech, language and communication problems.
They also help people who have difficulty eating or swallowing.
SLTs work in a range of settings, including:
We are a research-led School, with academic staff actively engaged in world-class research across a variety of areas, including:
Our research directly informs our teaching, giving you access to the latest thinking and discoveries that shape real-world practice.
Many of our lecturers are also practising speech and language therapists, giving you a direct insight into the latest developments in clinical practice.
From day one, you’ll gain hands-on experience in our purpose-built NHS speech and language therapy clinic, which supports both adult and paediatric clients with a wide range of speech, language, and communication needs.
You’ll take part in all aspects of day-to-day clinic work, including:
You'll also benefit from access to outstanding practical facilities, including:
Learn more about our clinic
Become part of a dynamic learning environment where students are actively involved in research, not just as participants, but also as organisers and collaborators.
This hands-on involvement helps you grow into a confident, evidence-based practitioner.
Our courses are ideal if you’re interested in both psychology and communication, and want to make a real impact through your studies.
A positive placement experience
Speech and language therapy graduate Jodie Kenvin helped run the Aphasia Friendly Book Club as part of her weekly summer placement.
She made connections with clients and found the experience hugely beneficial.
Read Jodie's story

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/surveying-and-construction-management-ug:
Our four surveying and construction management courses share a common first two years; this enables you to wait until towards the end of your second year to choose which course is the right fit for you.
100% of our research is of international standing  and 100% of our research impact has been classed 'outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ ( REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning).
As part of the cohort joining our surveying and construction management courses in 2025, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/teaching-ug:
Do you have a passion for working with children and young people?
Would you like to spread the enjoyment of subjects that you love?
If so, then our education courses may be ideal for you.
Embracing the demands of the twenty-first century requires educated, engaged and active citizens – individuals with resilience and the confidence to tackle challenges.
At the Institute of Education (IoE) we have the research, the expertise and the passion to help you transform lives through education.
We enjoy strong relationships with more than 400 local schools and early years settings that will provide you with placements and career opportunities.
As a student at the IoE, you will be taught by staff with extensive teaching and research expertise.
98% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Education).
The team includes those with experience of adult learners, early years, special needs schools, social care and classroom management.
In the National Student Survey, 2024 99% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things and 96% of our students said the course has developed the knowledge and skills they think they will need for their future ( National Student Survey 2024, 99.15% and 95.73% of responders from the Institute of Education).
Our BA Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) degrees enable you to study to become a primary school teacher while developing your expertise in art, English, mathematics or music.
This will give you the skills needed to champion your chosen specialism within primary education.
Our new BA Education Studies balances theory with practice to ensure you receive a well-rounded education with a strong focus on inclusion.
You will be able to explore issues of diversity, social justice and disability.
If you already work with children, then you may be interested in our Children's Development and Learning courses.
Our Foundation Degree is run in partnership with a series of local colleges, and you can take a year-long top-up course to turn it into a BA.
Both courses are designed to allow you to study whilst working full-time.
The Institute of Education is housed at the University’s London Road campus, which was refurbished at a cost of £30m to provide excellent facilities for all our education courses.
It is located in central Reading and within walking distance of the main Whiteknights campus.
BA Children's Development and Learning
Full Time:  1 Year
BA Primary Education with Art (QTS)
BA Primary Education with English (QTS)
BA Primary Education with Mathematics (QTS)
BA Primary Education with Music (QTS)
Foundation Degree in Children's Development and Learning
Full Time:  2 Years
BA Education Studies
BA Primary Education (QTS)
I chose Reading because it looked really interesting to me as a musician.
It gave me the opportunity to do something I loved in both ways: to build myself as a musician, developing my knowledge and pushing boundaries, as well as becoming a teacher.
I didn’t see any other course like this one, with the musical depth.
It really extends you.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/theatre-ug:
As well as our BA Acting and Performance course, our joint courses with Theatre are based at Minghella Studios, the purpose-built home of the Department of Film, Theatre and Television .
You’ll have access to a range of professional-level rehearsal and performance spaces – where you'll study alongside other creatively ambitious film and television students.
The team of academics leading your studies includes specialists in contemporary British theatre and television, performance and ecology, set design and scenography, community theatre, scriptwriting and play development.
As you explore a range of ideas and debates surrounding acting, theatre and performance, you’ll also be developing your practical skills, such as set building, lighting design and sound design, receiving hands-on support from our team of technicians.
Your assignments will aid your professional growth, ensuring that you're well placed for a career in the creative industries.
Recent exciting projects include a collaboration with Reading’s South Street Theatre, ‘Work in Progress’.
Funded by Arts Council England, the initiative enabled our students to work directly alongside professional theatre companies in developing and performing new work.
We also partner with leading regional companies such as Rabble Theatre and Reading Rep, and offer modules focused on career development.
Our Department proudly subscribes to the industry-leading BAFTA Albert scheme, which supports film-and-television makers in their efforts to work sustainably and limit their environmental impact.
By studying with us you'll join one of the UK’s leading Universities in Environment and Sustainability’ Ranked 4th in the world in the People and Planet University Awards 2024/25.
BA Theatre and Performance
BA Film and Television
BA Film and Theatre
BA English Literature and Film & Theatre
BA Creative Writing and Theatre
BA Creative Writing and Film & Theatre

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/wildlife-conservation-ug:
Learn about animal behaviour, ecology and environmental management with a wildlife conservation course at the University of Reading.
At a time when climate change is having a profound impact on global ecosystems, wildlife conservation has never been more important.
Our programmes provide all the skills you need for a career in ecology or wildlife management, focusing on:
You'll also learn about evolutionary processes, animal and plant diversity, and how human intervention has an impact on worldwide ecosystems.
We offer flexible study options on our ecology and wildlife conservation programmes, including:
All of our wildlife conservation programmes aim to enhance your employability and vocational skills.
The University has strong links with employers such as the Environment Agency, the RSPB wildlife charity, Thames Water, and the Met Office.
We also work closely with environmental consultancies, including RSK Ecological Consultants and Tyler Grange.
You’ll gain industry insights through visits, talks and professional placements.
As an Ecology and Wildlife Conservation graduate, you will also be eligible for membership of the Royal Society of Biology and Chartered Biologist status.
BSc Environmental Management and Sustainability with Foundation
BSc Environmental Management and Sustainability with Placement Year
BSc Environmental Management and Sustainability

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/zoology-ug:
Zoology is the study of animal life at all levels, from genes and cells to populations and ecosystems, from individual behaviour to broad patterns of evolution and adaptation.
This subject covers anatomy, ecology and conservation, and fieldwork can take place locally or in exotic locations around the world.
We believe that understanding the diversity of animal life is crucial in zoology.
Therefore, we offer specialised modules introducing animals at all levels of complexity, from the simplest forms through to birds and mammals.
It’s a great opportunity to study the full variety of animal life in all its diversity.
You will benefit from exceptional teaching inspired by world-class research, and will be encouraged to follow your interests with specialised modules and hands-on learning.
You will have the opportunity to build up field experience, and select optional modules to follow your specific interests in this vast and fascinating area of study.
We run unique field courses to a variety of locations across Europe and beyond.
In our Tropical Zoology field course, you can learn first-hand about the amazing wildlife in locations such as the Galapagos Islands, Tanzania, South Africa and Canada.
You can also carry out your final-year research project at a European university under the Erasmus+ scheme.
Previous students have worked at an overseas institute during the summer, such as KL University in Malaysia, or have studied leopards in South Africa.
You don't need to venture off campus for access to great facilities and fieldwork.
Our award-winning Whiteknights campus has fantastic biodiversity, while our own accredited museum, the Cole Museum of Zoology, is used extensively in teaching and provides you with unique opportunities to develop hands-on skills in taxonomy and natural history conservation.
Overall, 91.4% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).
You could work in industry, research, wildlife conservation, education or the veterinary sector.
On-site outdoor laboratory
The University's Whiteknights campus is incredibly beautiful and biodiverse.
It offers a range of habitats, including a lake and woodland, as well as extensive parkland in which to conduct some of your fieldwork, all on your doorstep.
Visit the Zoology website.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/accounting-pg:
The University of Reading offers two postgraduate courses in accounting, enabling you to specialise in international accounting and finance, or accounting, financial management and digital business.
Our programmes are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accounting (CIMA) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accounts (ACCA) , allowing our graduates to gain exemptions from a number of professional exams.
If you want to work in trading, investment banking or finance, our International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Centre provides uniquely designed degrees that integrate theory with practice.
The ICMA Centre offers three dealing rooms , each equipped with the latest industry simulation software and supported by Refinitiv and Bloomberg terminals.
Our MSc International Accounting and Finance has been developed as a collaboration between our Business Informatics Systems and Accounting (BISA) department and the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Centre, so students on this programme will benefit from the use of the ICMA Centre facilities.
The statistics on this webpage relating to careers and employment were obtained from the responses of 204 graduates who completed the Henley Masters Career Outcomes survey 12 months after their graduation, in autumn 2024.
MSc Accounting, Financial Management and Digital Business
MSc International Accounting and Finance

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-pg:
The Graduate Institute of International Development, Agriculture and Economics (GIIDAE) attracts more than 90 master's students each year, typically coming from over 40 countries; it is an outstanding example of a globalised educational experience.
The diverse nature of our degree courses reflects our international expertise, and our interactive approach to learning gives you a coherent understanding of theory, practice and current debates in international development, agriculture, economics and marketing.
We are the highest-ranking UK university for agriculture and forestry and ranked 9th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2020 – Agriculture & Forestry.
We are the only UK university in the top 50).
You will be taught by internationally renowned academics working at the forefront of research, practice and policy development.
Our expertise spans international development, agriculture, agricultural economics, horticulture, food, marketing and rural environments.
There are also excellent opportunities for short work placements overseas (For placement information, ask us a question at www.reading.ac.uk/question ).
Reasons for studying at GIIDAE: SUPPORTIVE Renowned for our social and friendly atmosphere where student and staff interaction is paramount, we provide a supportive learning environment that welcomes students from around the world.
DIVERSE Our diversity is our strength as we cover a broad variety of topics with everything from Agricultural Economics, to Food Security and International Development.
TAILORED BY YOU The ability to choose modules from a wide range within the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development and across the University allows you to tailor your programme to meet your interests and career aspirations.
YOUR CAREER STARTS HERE We offer excellent opportunities for professional networking, with the option of placement experiences in the UK and overseas.
UNLOCK YOUR POTENTIAL Our programmes add value to your personal and professional development as we connect the theory, practice and policy.
HIGHLY RATED Our master's students rated their experience with us at 91% satisfaction overall, so you can be sure your experience with be a good one.
Come to Reading for your PhD or professional doctorate and join a talented and diverse community of fellow researchers working to improve lives across the globe.
MSc Agricultural Economics
Full Time:  12 months | Part Time:  24 months
MSc Agriculture and Development
MSc Applied International Development
MSc by Research Agriculture, Ecology and Environment
MRes Agricultural and Food Economics
Full Time:  12 months
MSc Communication for Development
MSc Consumer Behaviour
MSc Development Finance
MSc Food Economics and Marketing
MSc Food Security and Development
MSc Environment, Climate Change and Development

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-pg:
This course covers the full range of ancient history, literature, language, archaeology, art and culture in an established Department of Classics with an international reputation.
The University of Reading is an ideal place to extend and deepen your knowledge of the ancient world, with wide-ranging expertise covering the ancient Mediterranean world (and its reception) from the Bronze Age to Late Antiquity, from Greece and Rome to Egypt and the Near East.
In the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 95% of the University of Reading's research in Classics is rated of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions).
We have research and teaching strength in a wide range of aspects of ancient history, society, literature and art.
Particular clusters of expertise in the Department include: ancient religions; Late Antiquity; ancient traditions of historiography; connections between Greece and the Near and Middle East and with Egypt; ancient material culture and the development of Classical collections; and the reception of antiquity in the modern age.
Our expertise in ancient languages includes papyrology, epigraphy and ancient linguistics.
Our ancient language offerings in Latin, Greek, and Egyptian will complement your studies.
Postgraduate students are fully integrated into our thriving research culture, which includes weekly research seminars, reading groups and workshops featuring scholars from around the world.
Our postgraduates organise their own conferences, work-in-progress seminars and annual research colloquia.
You will benefit from facilities including the Department’s Ure Museum, which holds the fourth-largest collection of Greek ceramics in the UK, and a dedicated postgraduate room.
Additionally, we are only a short distance from the major research libraries and classical archaeology collections of Oxford and London.
MA Classics and Ancient History

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-pg:
We offer advanced study on programmes taught by academics with an international reputation for excellence in teaching and research.
Take advantage of outstanding teaching collections and facilities located in modern premises.
You will benefit from our dedicated archaeology building, which contains purpose-built teaching laboratories housing a rich collection of artefacts, ecofacts, human remains and animal bones.
You will also have easy access to our three superb, on-campus museums: Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology, Cole Museum of Zoology and the Museum of English Rural Life.
We are skills focused – through our world-leading fieldwork and research projects we train graduates to the highest standards in preparation for doctoral study and professional employment.
We provide a strong research grounding linking social and scientific archaeology.
Find out more at the Department of Archaeology website .
MA Archaeology

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architecture-pg:
Join us at Reading School of Architecture, where you’ll develop the knowledge and skills to tackle the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Continue your study of architecture with our Master of Architecture (MArch) course; the second stage in becoming a qualified architect in the UK.
You'll balance research and practice to critically and imaginatively respond to societal, environmental and technological challenges.
Study at Reading School of Architecture and benefit from:
Master of Architecture
Full Time: 22 months

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-pg:
Learn from high-profile international artists and thrive in our vibrant postgraduate community.
Reading School of Art (RSA) offers an inspiring and nurturing environment where you can develop your practice and establish yourself as an artist.
With international connections and a strong focus on collaboration, you'll work alongside a diverse range of artists from various backgrounds, cultures, and experiences.
You will learn from practising artists, writers, and curators.
All our RSA staff are actively involved in the arts and the creative world beyond the University.
You’ll also benefit from the expertise and experience of visiting artists and our alumni network.
Our alumni are very generous with their time and are regularly involved with our students – running workshops, curating exhibitions, and offering career development advice.
Widen your artistic perspective through collaborations with other institutions, cultures and professions - and explore international opportunities with our partner institutions .
Our research focuses on exhibition and curatorial practice, publication projects and critical art writing.
This is underpinned by an emphasis on digital technologies as a format for the production, dispersion and interpretation of art.
We work with international museums, galleries and collections to share our research with specialist and non-academic audiences.
Come to Reading for your Art PhD or professional doctorate and join a talented and diverse community of fellow researchers driven by a desire to support artistic research and stimulate public discourse across the globe.
MA Fine Art

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/artificial-intelligence-pg:
Artificial intelligence is growing rapidly, transforming how we collect and use data.
At Reading, you’ll explore how AI can be used to tackle complex global challenges.
Our postgraduate AI courses are multidisciplinary in nature.
You’ll learn from experts in our Department of Computer Science , alongside academics in Henley Business School and the Department of Meteorology .
We offer two master’s programmes in artificial intelligence at the University of Reading:
Our Department of Computer Science offers expertise in data science and AI , as well as advanced computing for environmental science, and computational vision.
100% of the University’s research impact in Computer Science and Informatics has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions).
The University of Reading is located in the Thames Valley, a major UK technology hub.
Studying artificial intelligence at Reading, you'll be in the ideal location to explore opportunities and connections in the technology sector.
Reading and the Thames Valley are home to a wide range of businesses that specialise in AI applications and data processing.
In 2023, Reading was ranked 2nd in Data City’s list of AI hotspots in the UK .
Reading is also home to the Thames Valley AI Hub (TVAI Hub) , sponsored by the University of Reading’s Department of Computer Science and Henley Business School.
The TVAI Hub is a community of academics, researchers, technologists, clinicians and business strategists who work in AI, machine learning and big data.
The Hub enables AI professionals to network, collaborate and share knowledge, and to develop business opportunities and partnerships.
MSc Applied Artificial Intelligence for Business
Full Time:  12 months | Part Time:  36 months
MSc Climate Change and Artificial Intelligence (AI)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-pg:
Learn from enthusiastic and friendly academics with a real passion for their subject.
You will be able to draw on their experience, gained from years of teaching and research in both biomedical science and evolutionary biology and ecology.
We emphasise cross-disciplinary and quantitative approaches to research.
Our interests span the broad scope of modern biology, from individual molecules to global biodiversity and sustainability.
As a student in our School, you will benefit from access to our outstanding research and teaching facilities.
These include the Cole Museum of Zoology and the Herbarium, which contain over 4,000 zoological specimens and around 400,000 plant specimens.
Additionally, we have a range of modern, well-equipped laboratories.
These include a purpose-built imaging suite with confocal and super-resolution microscopes; dedicated microbiology laboratories for the study of bacteria and viruses; excellent computing facilities for computer-intensive work in phylogenetics, bioinformatics, protein structure, evolution and population biology; and controlled environment suites for the study of invertebrates and plants.
Overall, 91.4% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).
MSc by Research Biomedicine
MSc by Research Entomology
MSc Ecological Survey Skills with Placement
MSc Biotechnology

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biomedical-sciences-pg:
You will be able to draw on their experience, gained from years of teaching and research in biomedical science.
Our interests span the broad scope of modern biomedical science, from individual molecules to major diseases.
You'll benefit from a range of modern, well-equipped laboratories.
These include a purpose-built imaging suite with confocal and super-resolution microscopes, dedicated microbiology laboratories for the study of bacteria and viruses, and excellent computing facilities for computer-intensive work in bioinformatics and protein structure prediction.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-post-experience-pg:
Today's globally connected business world calls for a wider perspective, new skills and different ways of thinking.
Henley is designed to develop outstanding business leaders, ready to take on the challenges and opportunities of operating in today's global economy.
Henley Business School is among an elite group of business school that hold triple-accredited status from the UK, European and US accrediting bodies (AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB).
Since its foundation as one of the UK's first business schools in 1945, Henley has provided executive education that combines the best of academic knowledge with practical development for aspiring individuals and ambitious organisations.
With 150 research-led faculty members, widely published academics and cited experts regularly featuring in the national media, the faculty members at Henley Business School are world-leading.
Our programmes are enriched by our knowledge, research and commercial experience - and are continually revised to ensure they remain as relevant as they can be.
By taking a genuine interest in what drives every participant , Henley inspires people, making them the best they can be.
Choosing Henley may be the best business decision you ever make.
Looking for postgraduate research opportunities?
Doctor of Business Administration
The Henley Flexible Executive MBA
MSc Coaching for Behavioural Change
The Henley Executive MBA - Global
Corporate Development
As a trusted partner, Henley Business School will work with you to tackle your organisational challenges and develop your in-house capability.
Explore how we can help your company perform at its optimal level

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-pre-experience-pg:
Henley is among an elite group of business schools that holds triple-accredited status from the UK, European and US accrediting bodies (AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB).
The Henley approach to learning is a highly respected blend of academic theory and practical application.
Our interactive teaching methods will enable you to evaluate and discuss complex topics, giving you an unrivalled insight into the challenges facing organisations in an international context, with a particular emphasis on governance and ethical dilemmas.
You’ll learn from internationally recognised academic experts and thought leaders who have relevant experience in international business, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship, human resource management and accounting.
You’ll also benefit from our close connections with international organisations and senior industry leaders, as well as our involvement in high-profile academic conferences such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).
We are committed to developing outstanding professionals and business leaders.
83% of graduates reported that Henley's career service had a positive impact on them (Henley Masters Career Outcome survey 2024).
You can be certain that our staff will work hard to bring out the very best in you, to develop a range of transferable business skills and technical knowledge that will enable you to achieve your career goals and aspirations.
MSc International Business and Finance
MSc International Business and Digital Transformation
MSc International Human Resource Management
MSc International Business
MSc Digital Marketing
MSc Digital Business and Data Analytics
MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation
MSc Management
MSc Marketing (International Marketing)
MSc Marketing (Sustainable Marketing)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/classics-and-ancient-history-pg:
Immerse yourself in the study of ancient history, literature, language, archaeology, art and culture in a thriving Department of Classics with an international reputation.
Join a vibrant research environment where 95% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Classics).
It is an ideal place to extend and deepen your knowledge of the ancient world, with wide-ranging expertise covering the ancient Mediterranean world (and its reception) from the Bronze Age to Late Antiquity, from Greece and Rome to Egypt and the Near East.
We have research and teaching strengths in a wide range of aspects of ancient history, society, literature and art.
You will benefit from facilities including the Department’s Ure Museum, which holds one of the largest collections of Greek ceramics in the UK, and a dedicated postgraduate room.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/climate-science-pg:
Finding solutions to the critical problems in our natural environment requires talented scientists committed to pushing frontiers.
Meteorology is for people with the skill and curiosity to apply the principles of physics and mathematics in new ways.
Pursue a master's degree with the University of Reading’s world-class Department of Meteorology and learn from esteemed experts in the field.
You’ll gain the knowledge and experience to help you excel in your career in the meteorological and climate science sectors, or beyond.
We bring together a diverse and gifted community of meteorologists, physicists, mathematicians and computer scientists.
This includes experts in weather, climate, atmospheric and space physics, oceanography, hydrology, renewable energy and Earth observation.
Our Department is home to five Fellows of the Royal Society, as well as climate experts who contribute to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Our academics are leaders in their fields and draw on their research experience to give you unique scientific perspectives into the environmental issues that affect our world.
Our ground-breaking scientific research is extending knowledge and understanding and, through our teaching, we are training a new generation of scientists to think differently.
91% of our master’s students said they are satisfied with overall quality of their course (Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024, 90.9% of responders from the Department of Meteorology)
We benefit from close research and training links with the Met Office and the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts.
These links provide excellent facilities for acquiring special data sets and other material useful in teaching and research.
Our Department building also houses the MetOffice@Reading centre, which focuses on regional scale weather systems.
Additionally, the Department hosts the Climate Directorate of the National Centre for Atmospheric Science and the Data-Assimilation Directorate of the National Centre for Earth Observation.
Our MSc Applied Meteorology and Climate, MSc Atmosphere, Oceans and Climate and MSc Applied Meteorology and Climate with Management postgraduate degrees are approved by the Royal Meteorological Society as appropriate academic training for meteorologists seeking the qualifications of Chartered Meteorologist (CMet) or Registered Meteorologist (RMet).
Successful MSc holders can apply for election to Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society (FRMetS).
Banner image: Meteorology MSc alumna Cammie Czuchnicki (www.weatherstudios.com), Creative Commons Attribution Licence.
Image edited and cropped to fit banner
MSc Atmosphere, Ocean and Climate
MSc Applied Meteorology and Climate
MSc Applied Meteorology and Climate with Management

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/computer-science-pg:
The Department of Computer Science offers a challenging scheme of study that is invigorated by the research interests and expertise of our academics, and by our strong links with high-tech local industry.
With the exponential growth of data being produced and the rise of automation in the workplace, our courses aim to meet the high demand for skilled data scientists and Artificial Intelligence (AI) specialists.
The UK government has identified AI and data as one of the ‘four grand challenges’ of global trends that will transform our future, making our graduates highly valued and sought-after.
Our excellent facilities include purpose-built computer labs with workstations that run both Windows and Linux operating systems, a wide range of software packages and further resources for project work.
We also have a master’s project/study room, featuring dual monitor PCs, a seating area, and a screen for practising presentations.
Reading is at the centre of the Thames Valley on the M4 corridor, which is a major high-technology hub.
Our ideal location provides many links with local industry and global companies.
As a result of this, we have a particularly lively programme of both pure and applied research in a diverse range of topics.
These include artificial intelligence, data science, big data analytics, machine learning, computational science and computer vision.
Come to Reading for your PhD or professional doctorate and join a talented and diverse community of  fellow researchers working to improve lives across the globe.
MSc Data Science and Advanced Computing

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/construction-management-and-engineering-pg:
Our professionally accredited master’s courses offer flexible study options taught through an interdisciplinary approach.
Join us as we strive to understand complex and challenging problems within the built environment, and work with us in the co-creation of new knowledge.
The School of the Built Environment is highly interdisciplinary in nature, covering a range of diverse subject areas including architecture, construction management, energy and environmental engineering.
Our staff have extensive experience as advisers, consultants and visiting lecturers to companies, governments and universities globally.
Our MSc programmes focus on ensuring an excellent student experience and our curriculum extends beyond accepted models of best practice to incorporate the latest findings from research.
Most of our courses are available full time over 12 months or on a flexible modular basis taking between 24 and 63 months.
Both the full-time and flexible modes of study can be started in September or the following February.
Our two courses with industry placements are only available as one year of study followed by a year-long placement.
These courses start in September.
All our courses are delivered on a modular basis with teaching arranged in block weeks.
Learn more about flexible study .
Our excellent facilities include a dedicated computer lounge for use by our students, equipped with the latest digital technology and software, including: building information modelling, 3D laser scanning, 3D visualisation, virtual reality headsets, building energy simulations and urban microclimate simulations.
All of our MSc programmes are accredited by professional bodies, and we have a track record of active engagement with industry.
You can be confident of a programme that is professionally relevant and directed towards maximising your career potential.
MSc Construction Cost Management
Full Time:  12 months | Flexible:  24 - 63 months | Other: September or February entry
MSc Construction Management
MSc Construction Management with Industry Placement
Full Time:  24 months
MSc Design and Management of Sustainable Built Environments
MSc Renewable Energy: Technology and Sustainability
MSc Project Management
MSc Project Management with Industry Placement

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/consumer-behaviour-pg:
The need to identify the influencing forces that affect consumer decisions underpins all marketing activities and policy formulation.
The ability to understand, interpret and predict consumer actions is vital to the success of any business venture, policy think-tank or trade organisation in the corporate, public or voluntary sectors.
Consumer behaviour is an inter-disciplinary social science and our programme is taught by academics from our Applied Economics, Marketing and Development Research Group – with academics from psychology, sociology, social anthropology, marketing, business and economics backgrounds.
Not only will you be taught by academics undertaking consumer behaviour research you will also have the opportunity to network with businesses and organisation and work on live consumer behaviour projects.
This programme  has been designed to ensure you are work ready with highly desirable skillset.
You can be certain that our staff will work hard to bring out the very best in you, to develop a range of transferable skills and technical knowledge that will enable you to achieve your career goals and aspirations.
Accreditation
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) .
As one of our students, you'll be able to gain industry-recognised qualifications at an accelerated pace.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/creative-enterprise-pg:
In the fast-evolving creative industries, commercial and business skills are becoming increasingly valuable to ensure success.
The MA Creative Enterprise is designed to further develop both your creative skills and business acumen to maximise your employability.
A truly multidisciplinary programme, the MA Creative Enterprise combines expertise from three of Reading’s schools: the Henley Business School, the School of Law, and the School of Arts & Communication Design.
Learn how business and management ties into creative industry sectors such as art, graphic design, film, theatre, TV and radio - just a few of the many career options that this master’s could lead into.
Build your skills as a practitioner, learn about the legal and financial aspects of the arts, and develop a critically informed knowledge of the creative sector.
The MA Creative Enterprise will enable you to gain the skills and knowledge needed to progress in business as well as entrepreneurial careers within start-ups and creative firms.
You’ll learn filmmaking skills, explore debates about style and meaning, and develop your understanding of industry trends and practices.
You will also be working alongside those on other Creative Enterprise pathways, allowing you to build connections and enrich your understanding of other elements of the creative industries.
MA Film and Creative Enterprise
The most enjoyable thing about this entire experience was being able to pursue a project I’m deeply passionate about and having the complete support of my professors and classmates.
They were all just as excited as I was about it and it was heartwarming to have been part of a group that respected each other’s crafts

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/data-science-pg:
The Department of Computer Science offers a challenging, flexible scheme of study that is invigorated by the research interests and expertise of our academics, and by our strong links with high-tech local industry.
The UK government has identified AI and data as one of the four grand challenges of global trends that will transform our future, making our graduates highly valued and sought-after.
Our dedicated facilities include high-end computing laboratories equipped with the latest hardware for embedded applications for VR headsets, professional graphic cards and a High-Performance Computing cluster for large-scale data processing.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/dietetics-pg:
Dietetics is a dynamic and essential field of healthcare focused on the science of food, nutrition, and their impact on health and well-being.
Dietitians are the only qualified health professionals who can assess, diagnose and treat nutrition-related issues at both an individual and wider public health level.
Our MSc Dietetics (pre-registration) programme offers postgraduate study that combines our clinical excellence with expertise in nutritional research supporting Sustainable Diets for All .
Our world-class facilities
You will learn in state-of-the-art facilities including our brand-new Clinical Simulation Training Suite which is a recreation of a four-bed hospital ward with specialist equipment, video link facilities, and consultation spaces.
The facility is located on the University’s Whiteknights campus and has been designed in partnership with the Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust (RBFT) to replicate a typical ward found at the Royal Berkshire Hospital.
Find out more about our facilities.
International acclaim
The University of Reading is also home to the world-renowned Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition (HSUHN).
The unit has an international reputation for its research into the relationship between diet and the risk of chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and cancer.
The HSUHN's clinical research informs the work of governments and the food sector.
Learn from experts
Your learning will be guided by research active academics and dietitians with relevant clinical experience, as well as undertaking a range of work-based placements.
Events
Join one of our taster events and g ain an insight into studying Dietetics at Reading and future career opportunities:
Register for an MSc Dietetics taster event.
MSc Dietetics
MSc Food Science
MSc Food Technology - Quality Assurance
MSc Nutrition and Food Science

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/digital-business-pg:
You’ll learn from internationally recognised faculty members who have held senior information management roles in industry and academia, as well as from guest speakers from leading business and industry.
You’ll also be able to take advantage of our faculty members’ business networks across multiple sectors, giving you unrivalled opportunities to get involved in real-world projects.
The practical emphasis of our modules has been recognised by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT, and stems from our research-informed and practice-orientated approach to information management, integrating business strategy and technology solutions.
You can be certain that our staff will work hard to bring out the very best in you, supporting you to develop a range of transferable business skills and technical knowledge that will enable you to achieve your career goals and aspirations.
MSc Digital Innovation

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ecology-pg:
Study the living world with our practical postgraduate ecology degrees.
Learn from enthusiastic academics with expertise in entomology, ecology, botany, ornithology, and British mammals, reptiles and amphibians.
Use our campus as your laboratory.
The 320-acre Whiteknights Park and Harris Garden – most of which is managed for wildlife and biodiversity – is home to over 2,300 species of animals and plants.
You’ll also have access to:
Our postgraduate ecology degrees provide an excellent route into a career in the ecology, conservation and ecological consultancy sectors.
Overall, 93% of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes graduates of MSc by Research Entomology and MSc Species Identification and Survey Skills (formerly MSc Ecological Survey Skills with Placement)).
If you choose to study MSc Ecological Survey Skills with Placement, you’ll undertake a six-month paid placement with one of our ecological consultancy partners.
The University has ringfenced these placements with our partners, RSK Group and Aspect Ecology.
Our MSc by Research Entomology students benefit from close links with Natural England, the National Trust, the Natural History Museum, RSPB, and the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, among many others.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/economics-pg:
Reading's Department of Economics was established more than half a century ago.
100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Business and Management Studies, and Anthropology and Development Studies).
Our academic staff hold expertise in the various fields of economics, with research expertise spanning areas such as behavioural economics, labour economics, econometrics, macroeconomics, business economics and finance, development economics and sports economics.
We offer a range of postgraduate programmes reflecting the changing global economic environment.
Our strong focus on applied research means that we emphasise the policy implications of our research findings.
We also encourage you to look beyond the headlines and understand the forces shaping our world today.
You will have the opportunity to gain knowledge of recent developments in the global economy and how these are linked with changes at the national and international level.
We are proud of our friendly and inclusive international community, which offers you a supportive environment in which to study.
MSc Economics
MSc Public Policy
MSc Business Economics
MSc Applied Economics

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/education-pg:
How we educate the next generation is the key to our future as a society.
At the Institute of Education, we are committed to developing caring and professional individuals who share this ethos.
The Institute of Education is an established provider of high-quality training and research in education.
At postgraduate level, we offer a broad range of courses to suit the needs of our students.
We offer:
As part of our international partnerships, we also co-deliver an MA English Language Education course with Guangdong University of Foreign Studies.
Our networks and the impact of our work are both local and global.
Locally, we work closely with over 400 well-established partner schools to train the next generation of outstanding teachers.
Globally, our research, consultancy and other projects extend to countries as varied as China, Jamaica, the USA and Singapore.
We have a national and international reputation for impactful research.
Through our research, we aim to improve education and learning as a route to self-efficacy, economic wellbeing, and improved life chances.
We are also proud that we make important contributions to theory across the education, language and learning spectrum.
In the latest national assessment, 98% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Education), positively impacting on educational policy and practice.
Come to Reading for your PhD or EdD and join a talented and diverse community of fellow researchers working to transform lives through education.
MA Education
Full Time:  12 months | Other: Part-time modular: currently up to 63 months
PGCE Primary Postgraduate Certificate in Education
Full Time:  10 months
Primary Professional Graduate Certificate in Education with QTS (PgCE) (3-7)
Primary Professional Graduate Certificate in Education with QTS (PgCE) with Special Educational Needs (SEN)
Primary Professional Graduate Certificate in Education with QTS (PgCE)
PGCE Early Years (EYTS)
PGCE Secondary Geography
PGCE Secondary History
PGCE Secondary Mathematics
PGCE Secondary Modern Foreign Language - French
PGCE Secondary Modern Foreign Language - German
PGCE Secondary Modern Foreign Language - Spanish
PGCE Secondary English
PGCE Secondary Physical Education
PGCE Secondary Science Physics with Mathematics
PGCE Secondary Science: Physics
PGCE Primary Postgraduate Certificate in Education with Special Educational Needs (SEN)
PGCE Secondary Art and Design
PGCE Secondary Design and Technology
PGCE Secondary Science: Engineers Teach Physics
PGCE Secondary Science: Chemistry
PGCE Secondary Science: Biology
PGCE Primary Postgraduate Certificate in Education (3-7)
Postgraduate Certificate in Education (Reflective Practice)
Part Time:  10 months
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (Primary) + QTS with Postgraduate Certificate in Education
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (Secondary) + QTS with Postgraduate Certificate in Education
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (Primary) + QTS with Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (PgCE)
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (Secondary) + QTS with Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (PgCE)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/energy-and-environmental-engineering-pg:
Our aim is the co-creation of new knowledge and understanding about complex and challenging problems.
The School of the Built Environment comprises a distinctive interdisciplinary expertise relating to energy and sustainability.
Experts in sustainable engineering solutions combine with policy specialists and social scientists to offer unique insights.
Our staff have extensive experience as advisers, consultants and visiting lecturers to commercial organisations, governments and universities globally.
We also attract students from all over the world and many progress to senior positions within governments.
NGOs or the private sector.
Our MSc courses are focused on ensuring an excellent student experience, drawing from the very latest leading-edge research and we pride ourselves on our first-class teaching and student support.
Our curriculum extends beyond accepted models of best practice to incorporate the latest findings from research.
Excellent facilities include a dedicated computer facilities for building energy simulations and urban microclimate simulations.
The School also possesses laboratory space and experimental equipment to support student research projects.
Our courses are available full time over 12 months or on a flexible modular basis taking between 24 and 63 months.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/engineering-pg:
Our MSc courses are focused on ensuring an excellent student experience, drawing from the very latest leading-edge research.
We pride ourselves on our first-class teaching and student support and our curriculum extends beyond accepted models of best practice to incorporate the latest findings from research.
Choose to study over two years to fit around your work commitments, applying what you learn immediately, or study more intensively over one year.
Both the full-time and flexible part-time modes of the programmes are delivered on a modular basis with teaching arranged in block weeks.
Learn more about flexible modular study.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/english-language-and-applied-linguistics-pg:
Join a department that is recognised internationally for its excellent research in applied linguistics and Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL).
100% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Modern Languages and Linguistics).
Reading's Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics has 60 years of excellence in the field.
David Crystal OBE (awarded for services to the English language, 1995) set up the first linguistics degree at the University of Reading, and sociolinguistics was born at Reading.
With 1,500 graduates in more than 40 countries pursuing careers in education, governmental and industry-related fields at all levels, the University’s long-established MA TESOL is dedicated to building expertise in the field.
Our postgraduate programmes promote intellectual rigour, imaginative insight and critical awareness, and develop professionals who are thoughtful practitioners.
They are flexibly delivered to suit individual needs, and all modules are carefully designed to connect theory to practice.
We’re in the top 150 universities in the world for English Language and Literature (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025).
Specialist tracks are available for those with and without teaching experience.
You can choose either a dissertation or pre-service teaching experience track, and pick from an exceptionally wide range of core and optional modules.
Those who already have teaching experience can take the MA TESOL dissertation track.
Those who do not have teaching experience, can take our pre-service teaching experience MA TESOL with a portfolio of teaching-related assignments.
Both independence and interactional competence are promoted through our mix of lectures, small-class seminars and blended online support.
Our Department supplements University student support services with individual academic tutor support and academic study skills training.
Located on one of the most beautiful campuses in the UK, our specialist facilities include outstanding library collections in TESOL/applied linguistics, a self-access language learning centre, and access to corpus facilities.
MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Full Time:  12 months | Part Time:  24 months | Other: September or February entry
MA Applied Linguistics
Language is a means to understanding who you are and what your society is like

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/english-literature-pg:
Join an English Literature Department that has wide interests and world-leading archives.
We are ranked in the top 150 universities in the world for English Language and Literature in the QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025.
The University of Reading is 6th in the UK for research outputs in English Language and Literature (Times Higher Education analysis of the latest Research Excellence Framework 2021 – English Language and Literature, when scoring by GPA Output).
Our master’s teaching at the University of Reading is delivered with friendliness and expertise.
You will be taught in small groups, with lecturers and professors leading discussion and giving lectures.
There are two teaching semesters, and assessment is by essays and a dissertation written over the summer.
You will be given an expert supervisor for your dissertation who will meet with you for a number of one-to-one advice sessions.
We offer a taught master’s programme, which also provides appropriate research training for those going on to PhDs as well as those with an interest in the heritage sector.
As part of this, you will have the opportunity to gain hands-on experience with our world-renowned archives and special collections.
As a master’s student in this thriving and dynamic Department, you will be welcomed at a number of special events, including research seminars and guest lectures.
Research centres based at or affiliated with our Department include:
MA English Literature
The MA was a really valuable and rewarding part of my academic development.
In addition to extending my encounters with a range of materials, topics, and approaches within the sphere of literature and theory, it provided a platform for students continuing on from Reading undergraduate study or arriving at the University from other institutions to develop strong working relationships with members of staff within the English Literature department, and in the wider University community.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/environmental-science-pg:
Join a lively and welcoming Department with custom-designed laboratories and specialised research facilities.
There is a growing market for environmental managers and consultants and our graduates have left well equipped for professional roles.
We offer you a unique opportunity to develop your environmental management skills alongside your awareness of environmental science and policy.
Build your practical experience with fieldwork and research projects that will further develop your skills and prepare you for employment.
Opportunities for you to network with potential employers are built into the course.
Our students go on to work in a wide variety of public and private sector organisations – within the UK and internationally.
Following successful graduation, you will also be well placed to pursue further doctoral study and academic and research posts.
Potential careers include roles in:
You will have the opportunity to gain practical experience of contaminated site investigation and present your findings to an expert panel, made up of a mixture of clients from industry and academics.
You will benefit from our custom-designed building with specialised research facilities, learn with our internationally-recognised experts and complete a dedicated residential field class in Dartmoor.
MSc Environmental Management

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/film-theatre-and-television-pg:
Film, theatre and television are crucial in shaping the way we understand our place in the world.
At Reading, we chart the development of these three major cultural forms from the early twentieth century into the digital age.
We provide you with the opportunity to look at current critical debates in these disciplines related to innovative research in the Department.
You will specialise in an area of academic enquiry that interests you or develop your own area of practice through research.
Teaching is undertaken by leaders in their fields, with strong links to industry and practitioners.
You will also receive one-to-one supervision on your dissertation/practice-as-research project.
We will equip you with key analytical and interpretative skills, practical expertise in film and theatre production, and a wide range of transferable skills.
Make use of our £11.4m purpose-built facilities, which include a cinema, three theatres, a suite of cutting rooms, specialist sound editing and recording facilities, and a fully equipped studio for film and television production.
At the University of Reading, we pride ourselves on our subject-specific collections and extensive library resources, and our ideal location – 30 minutes from Reading to London Paddington by train – means that we can run regular trips to London, which are integral to a number of the taught modules.
MA by Research Film, Theatre and Television

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/finance-pg:
The International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Centre is Europe’s first active collaboration between the capital markets industry and a university finance department.
We are a part of the triple-accredited Henley Business School which has an 100,000-strong alumni network that spans over 160 countries.
Our practice-centred approach includes various finance education innovations, aiming to provide students with a solid grounding for a career in the industry.
We have over 100 state-of-the-art trading simulation terminals in three dealing rooms, supported by Refinitiv and Bloomberg.
This also enables academic staff to combine theory and practice across a whole range of activities, whether in derivatives trading, portfolio management, risk management, financial engineering or corporate finance.
The ICMA Centre is a pioneer in finance education and renowned for its strong links with the financial services industry.
This is reflected in our accreditations and affiliations with several leading professional bodies including the CFA Institute, CISI, GARP and PRMIA.
These accreditations reflect the quality of our master's programmes and offer students valuable exam exemptions.
Our diverse and reputable faculty members bring both industry and academic expertise from around the world.
Choose finance at Henley Business School:
MSc Behavioural Finance
MSc Investment Management
MSc Financial Risk Management
MSc Finance
MSc Finance and Financial Technology (FinTech)
MSc Corporate Finance
MSc Climate Change, Sustainable Business and Green Finance

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/food-and-nutritional-sciences-pg:
The world needs more food scientists.
With the food and drink industry as the UK's largest manufacturing sector – responsible for adding £21.9bn to the gross value of the UK economy – new graduate recruits are in demand.
Our Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences is a global player in food and health research.
Your learning will benefit from access to the largest range of dedicated food laboratories in a UK university, our extensive links with industry, and expert academics who work on cutting-edge research.
The University of Reading is in the top 10 universities for food science in the UK (7th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025).
Our facilities
You will have the opportunity to use our extensive range of facilities , which are primarily used for supporting teaching and learning.
Our research
95% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences).
Our academics strive to improve the quality and nutrition of food that will deliver real benefits for society.
Our staff
Join a community of over 30 research and teaching staff, as well as research students, technical and clinical staff who all share your passion for food and nutrition.
The Reading food community extends to our influential alumni and industry contacts who provide significant research funding and support our teaching programmes.
Being part of this vibrant, ever-growing network will allow you to pursue your research interests and thrive in your future career.
Many of our master's students choose to stay with us for PhD study.
We are passionate about out work and will inspire you to achieve your goals – as such, students consistently comment on the welcoming, friendly ethos in our Department.
Our links with industry
All of our programmes are industry relevant, and designed in consultation with industry.
You will have the opportunity to complete a research placement in industry, providing you with real-world experience and boosting your employability.
Our academics work closely with industry, and are regular speakers at industry events.
Our MSc Nutrition and Food Science is accredited by the Association for Nutrition (AfN) , the independent regulator for Registered Nutritionists.
After graduating, you will be eligible to apply to become a Registered Associate Nutritionist with the AfN.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/geography-and-environmental-science-pg:
There is a growing market for environmental managers and consultants.
Our graduates have left well equipped for professional roles.
Our students have previously worked with clients including research institutes, government agencies, non-governmental organisations and environmental consultancies.
Companies include Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, Rothamsted Research, Forest Research, British Geological Survey, Environment Agency, the Urban Orchard Project, National Trust, RSPB and R3 Environmental.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/graphic-design-pg:
Our Department has an international reputation for its teaching and research.
It has been a leader in defining and shaping our field, with pioneering contributions in: the integration of research into design teaching; the use of archives in developing, understanding and guiding design decisions; and the consolidation of history, theory and practice in typographic education.
Our Department has an outstanding reputation for its research – 95% of our research is world leading or internationally excellent and 100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory; Typography and Graphic Communication).
We have defined and shaped our field, with pioneering contributions in the integration of research into design teaching, the use of archives in developing, understanding and guiding design decisions, and the consolidation of history, theory and practice in typographic education.
Our programmes enable you to develop excellent skills in design practice, enquiry and discourse.
You will benefit from teaching that draws on academic and professional expertise from a wide range of staff and visiting contributors.
Our small programme groups allow you to engage with other postgraduates and researchers, in a supportive and collegiate environment.
You will benefit from our links with design institutions all over the world.
These include the Rare Book School in Lyon, the Information Design Association, International Institute for Information Design, Sign Design Society, Printing Historical Society, Monotype Imaging, The Newberry Library, Victoria & Albert Museum and St Bride Library.
We also house a large number of outstanding typography and graphic communication collections, which are used regularly in teaching, allowing you a unique, hands-on experience with archival material.
Our programmes help prepare you for a career in practice, and are ideal for those considering MPhil or PhD study.
MA Communication Design: Book Design Pathway
MA by Research Typography and Graphic Communication
MA Communication Design: Graphic Design Pathway
MA Communication Design: Information Design Pathway
MA Communication Design: Typeface Design Pathway
MRes Typeface Design
Part Time:  24 months

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/healthcare-pg:
Healthcare is a vital area of study.
By enhancing well-being, preventing disease, improving diagnoses, developing new therapies and advancing clinical practice, we can tackle the demands of complex and chronic health conditions.
The University of Reading enjoys international recognition for its expertise in many health and biomedical areas that are making essential contributions to our healthcare-related degree courses.
We have a well-established network of clinical partners hosted on campus and regionally, including the Royal Berkshire Hospital and Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust, and together we have established the Thames Valley Clinical Trials Unit to help deliver impactful clinical outcomes from our scientific discoveries.
You can choose to study healthcare from a variety of perspectives, including psychology, clinical language sciences, biological sciences, chemistry, food and pharmacy.
Depending on which programme you select, you will be encouraged to improve our understanding of disease, develop new treatments, investigate the process of emotion, understand language, or study the relationship between the brain and the environment.
You’ll learn from experts in their fields who work collaboratively with other University departments and beyond.
Our graduates have gone on to work for employers such as the NHS, GP practices, community services and the private sector, while others go on to pursue PhD studies.
Advanced Clinical Education and Prescribing
The Reading School of Pharmacy's department of Postgraduate Advanced Clinical Education (PACE) aims to provide postgraduate programmes that respond to the current and emerging needs of healthcare professionals.
Our current programmes address the needs of foundation and advanced practitioners including taught inter-professional programmes, independent prescribing, distance learning and workplace-based learning.
We are accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council and Nursing and Midwifery Council, and also have Royal Pharmaceutical Society Foundation School status.
Short courses
We offer educational training modules aimed at healthcare professionals for their professional development.
That can be studied as part of one of our programmes (see above) or as standalone modules or short courses:
PGCert Work-Based Learning
Part Time: 3 months | Other: Start dates: usually September, February and May
PGCert Reflective Practice for Prescribers
PGCert Introduction to Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (non-clinical)
Part Time:  12 months
PGCert Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
Part Time:  6 months | Other: Courses start in September and January
PGCert-GradCert Independent Prescribing for Nurses (Levels 6 and 7)
PGCert Independent Prescribing for Allied Health Professionals
MSc Physician Associate
MSc Cognitive Neuroscience
PGDip Pharmacy Practice
Part Time:  36 months | Other: 18 months if applying for the PGDip modules only and already have a comparable PGCert
PGCert Pharmacy Practice
Other: Part Time: 14-16 months
Flexible CPD Advancing Healthcare Practice (Modular/PGDip/MSc)
Flexible:  36-72 months | Other: or with prior learning typically 9-12 months
We have a range of outstanding facilities that benefit our work in neuroscience, cardiovascular and metabolic research, chemical analysis, and psychological treatments.
There is also a new £50m Health and Life Sciences Building planned at Reading, providing 7,557m2 of lab and teaching space.
I wanted to learn the most up-to-date science from the people who knew the most about it.
My lecturers at Reading were also world-class researchers, which meant they were passionate about what they were teaching, and knew how to feed my childhood passion.
There was a lightbulb moment in my first year that really drove home that I’d made the right decision.
I was sitting in a genetics lecture and I saw how such small things could determine an entire life.
What I was studying was complex, fast moving, but vitally important.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/history-pg:
Study within a truly interdisciplinary environment, broaden your understanding of history and build a unique pathway tailored to your interests and aims.
Thanks to our cooperation with other departments across the University, the Museum of English Rural Life and external organisations such as Historic England, the National Trust, the British Library, Parliament and the Wellcome Trust, our students work in a truly interdisciplinary environment and are part of a vibrant academic community.
100% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – History.)
As a master’s student, you will become an important part of the Department and its many interdisciplinary research centres.
Master’s students are involved in our research seminar series and are routinely invited to our conferences and events.
We also have a dedicated postgraduate room, where master’s and doctoral students work together, exchange ideas and support each other.
We offer you the opportunity to build your own pathway within our programme, enabling you to specialise in your preferred area.
MA History is also a flexible programme that can be studied on a full-time or part-time basis to suit you, as well as on a modular basis.
Read about Beth Snyder's experiences on the MA History .
MA History
Full Time:  12 months | Part Time:  24 months | Other: Flexible 36-60 months

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/information-technology-pg:
With the exponential growth of data being produced and the rise of automation in the workplace, our MSc Data Science and Advanced Computing course aims to meet the high demand for skilled data scientists and Artificial Intelligence (AI) specialists.
100% of our research impact has been classed 'outstanding' or 'very considerable' (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions - Computer Science and Informatics).
Our course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) – the Chartered Institute for IT.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-development-and-applied-economics-pg:
We are the highest-ranking UK university for Agriculture and Forestry and ranked 20th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025 – Agriculture & Forestry).
We are the only UK university in the top 50.
There are also excellent opportunities for short placements overseas.
For placement information, ask us a question .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/law-pg:
The University of Reading School of Law is a leading UK law school with a world-class reputation and global outlook.
We are recognised as one of the country’s highly ranked law schools.
According to recent data, 99% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Law).
Overall, 88% of our graduates are in employment or further study 15 months after the end of their course [1].
We offer a dynamic and international learning environment.
Our teaching is supported by first-class research conducted by renowned experts across the main fields of national, European and international law.
Our Centre for Commercial Law and Financial Regulation is a forum for conducting research and disseminating knowledge on international commercial law.
You will also benefit from our strong links with the Henley Business School, and the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Centre.
Students on the Global Law LLM programmes benefit from links with the Walker Institute, the School of Philosophy, Politics and Economics, the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development, and with Global Law at Reading (GLAR).
Based at the School of Law, GLAR is a research hub that offers networking, conference and work experience opportunities.
Alongside your core subjects, there will be career development and co-curricular opportunities and a series of guest lectures by practitioners.
We also offer programmes that enable you to undertake postgraduate study at two institutions in the form of a double master’s programme, completing two master’s programmes in two years.
You will need to apply via the LLM International Commercial Law programme.
Please contact us for details.
[1] Based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2019/20; includes all Law responders.
LLM Research Thesis
LLM Advanced Legal Studies
Legal Practice Course
MRes Law
LLM International Law
LLM International Commercial Law
LLM International Commercial Law with International Banking Law and Financial Regulation
LLM International Commercial Law with Intellectual Property Law and Management
LLM International Commercial Law with International Corporate Finance
Conversion programmes in Law

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/linguistics-pg:
Language is at the heart of human life and is crucial to our understanding of ourselves as individuals, as members of society, and as a species.
Study this most complex form of human behaviour at the University of Reading.
You can choose to study Linguistics within either the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, or the School of Humanities.
In the Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics, connect theory to practice.
MA Applied Linguistics is designed for graduates who wish to develop a career in the language-related industries, where you’ll learn both established and cutting edge research methodologies, and study topics such as second language learning principles and sociolinguistics.
MA TESOL is suitable for graduates already working or just starting a career in the field of English as a second/foreign language (ESL/EFL).
You’ll develop your teaching expertise and learn about areas such as language curriculum design and language testing principles.
You will have access to our outstanding TESOL/applied linguistics corpus and well as specialist facilities such as our self-access language learning centre.
In the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, explore the science behind language.
You will benefit from our world-leading research in linguistics, language development and language disorders in monolingual and bilingual children and adults.
100% of the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences’ research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience).
The School is home to the Centre for Literacy and Multilingualism that researches multilingualism, language and literacy.
You will study in a rich, multidisciplinary research environment with state-of-the-art facilities, including sound recording rooms, a speech research laboratory, and an in-house speech and language clinic on campus.
Many of our staff are practising speech and language therapists – giving you direct insight into the latest developments in the clinical aspects of linguistics.
MSc Language Sciences
MSc Speech and Language Therapy

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/management-pg:
It is the ideal destination if you want to study business and management at postgraduate level.
Choose business and management at Henley Business School:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/Marketing-pg:
The University of Reading offers a range of postgraduate marketing courses, taught by Henley Business School and the Department of Agri-Food Economics and Marketing.
Henley Business School is one of an elite group of business schools to hold triple-accredited status for the quality of its courses and faculty.
The Department of Agri-Food Economics and Marketing has expertise in agricultural economics, development finance, consumer behaviour, and food economics and marketing.
Our academics and graduates are tackling some of the biggest issues of the 21st century aligned to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
You’ll join a diverse community in our Graduate Institute of International Development, Agriculture and Economics (GIIDAE) , which offers a unique and global learning experience.
Our internationally renowned academics are at the forefront of research, practice and policy development.
All of our marketing programmes are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) , allowing our graduates to gain module exemptions from some CIM diplomas and certificates.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/meteorology-and-climate-pg:
Read about what you will need to do to prepare for your master's degree .
The University of Reading is one of only six universities to be part of the Met Office Academic Partnership.
For our MSc Applied Meteorology, MSc Atmosphere, Ocean and Climate, and MSc Applied Meteorology with Climate and Management courses, you are required to have a good knowledge of physics and mathematics.
Check the list of topics we recommend you to familiarise with

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/nutritional-sciences-pg:
We are proud of our research impact , 95% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences).
We are ranked 8th in the UK for research power in Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences (Times Higher Education, Institutions Ranked by Subject, based on its analysis of the latest REF 2021).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/pharmacy-pg:
The University of Reading has an established reputation for research into the application of chemical, pharmaceutical and pharmacological expertise to areas of therapeutic and biological importance.
There is a collaborative environment across the University.
In particular, the School of Pharmacy has become integrated with the Brain Embodiment Laboratory (BEL) following a £300,000 investment to establish electrophysiology/tissue culture facilities and expand collaborations with computational neuroscientists.
We have a range of fantastic research facilities, including the £4m Chemical Analysis Facility.
This provides access to a wide range of modern equipment and expertise essential for modern chemical and pharmaceutical research and our burgeoning activity at the chemistry-biology interface.
Strong links with industry allow access to industrial laboratories and facilities to support your research.
Many of our staff hold external appointments at various national and international research committees, which provide additional opportunities for participation in conferences and other networking events.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/philosophy-pg:
The Department of Philosophy offers a dynamic and stimulating research environment for our graduate students, with 100% of our research of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Philosophy).
You will have the opportunity to interact and engage in debate with renowned philosophers from across a broad range of disciplines.
Distinguished visiting speakers visit the University of Reading each semester, and we regularly host major conferences, including an annual conference sponsored by our home journal Ratio .
Being within easy reach of Oxford and London, you can also take advantage of the wealth of philosophy events at these two leading centres of research.
You will benefit from high-quality teaching provided by leaders in their fields, and there are a range of great opportunities for collaboration with staff and other students at regular seminars, reading groups and events organised by the student-run Philosophy Society.
We are also well known for our friendly, collaborative atmosphere, in which students and staff get to know one another on an individual basis.
MA by Research Philosophy

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/physician-associate-pg:
Our Physician Associate programme has been developed in partnership with the Royal Berkshire Hospital and Berkshire Healthcare Trust.
It is taught by practising healthcare professionals alongside academics, offering you an insight into current practice.
Your training will consist of intensive
evidence-based academic work and
hands-on workplace experience.
You will
have considerable interaction with patients
from early on in your studies.
The degree is designed to meet the
requirements of the Department of
Health’s Competence and Curriculum
Framework for the Physician Associate.
This has been designed to maximise the
sustainability and transferability of the role
across the NHS.
An ideal location

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/politics-and-international-relations-pg:
Study and collaborate with academics who have personal experience of public policy, government departments and international organisations (including the UN), or working as advisers to government.
We are a lively and dynamic research-led department with particular strengths in public policy, strategy, security, peacebuilding and global governance.
We have additional expertise in political theory and comparative government.
We are proud to be the academic home of the UN and Global Order Programme, the Ways of War Centre, and the British Army Higher Education Pathway.
As a graduate student in the Department of Politics and International Relations, you will be studying with academics who have personal experience of public policy, government departments and international organisations.
You will also have access to the staff seminar and to the intellectual expertise of scholars in neighbouring departments such as Economics and Law.
We offer small-group teaching and you will have the opportunity to engage with our programme of visiting speakers from across the discipline.
MA Conflict and International Security
MA International Relations and Diplomacy
MRes Politics and International Relations

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/project-management-pg:
Additionally, most of our MSc programmes are accredited by professional bodies, and we have a track record of active engagement with industry.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/psychology-pg:
At Reading, we offer postgraduate courses in neuroscience, clinical psychology, and clinical research.
Our programmes enable you to complement your studies through NHS-partnered clinics, professional training centres and research placements.
You will benefit from the many collaborative ventures of our staff, and from their involvement in national and international research projects, professional societies and funding bodies.
For more information about psychology at Reading, visit the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences site .
Specialist facilities
The Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics provides access to modern technology and expertise in cognitive and computational neuroscience.
We also have facilities for experimental and observational research, including several specialist laboratories.
Find out more about our facilities .
Our psychology research
At Reading, we have a long history of research that has real world impact.
We’re committed to fundamental, applied and clinical research that changes lives across the world.
100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience).
Learn more about our research
Join our vibra nt postgraduate community at Reading for your PhD or professional doctorate and collaborate with researchers dedicated to improving lives across the globe.
Discover more about Postgraduate research at Reading .
MSc Psychology Conversion
MSc Research Methods in Psychology
MSc Theory and Practice in Clinical Psychology (with clinical or research placement)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/public-policy-pg:
Offered jointly by the Department of Economics and the Department of Politics and International Relations, our interdisciplinary degree in Public Policy uses insights from both areas to develop policymaking skills.
At the University of Reading, we’ll equip you with knowledge of developments in the global economy and how these are linked with political changes at the national and international level.
We have a strong focus on applied research with an emphasis on the policy implications and you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in the economics and/or politics aspects of public policy.
In the Department of Politics and International Relations , 97% of our research outputs are rated world leading or internationally excellent, meaning that the University of Reading is 6th in the UK for research outputs.
(Times Higher Education analysis of the latest REF 2021 – Politics and International Studies, when scoring by GPA Output)
For Economics , 100% of our research impact has been classed outstanding or very considerable.
(REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Business and Management Studies, and Anthropology and Development Studies)
Our staff are approachable, helpful and passionate about their research.
As leading experts in their research, they often feature in the local and international media for their insights into global affairs.
We typically teach you in small, interactive groups combining different learning methods that include traditional lectures and seminars along with simulation activities and online tutorials, and you’ll benefit from a supportive studying environment within our friendly and inclusive international community.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/real-estate-and-planning-pg:
Real Estate and Planning at Henley Business School offers internationally recognised postgraduate programmes spanning real estate, spatial planning and conservation.
We are recognised as a leader in the provision of education to the real estate and related professions.
Our world-leading programmes are accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI), reflecting the quality and industry relevance of our teaching.
Our programmes combine cutting-edge research with practical insights, ensuring graduates are well-prepared for professional success.
If you choose to study with us, you will engage fully with your chosen subject, studying it in depth, challenging current thinking, and developing your own ideas.
We're 1st in the UK for 'Land and Property Management' in the Complete University Guide 2026, consistently ranking in the top three since 2008.
We undertake research funded by the research councils, charitable foundations, industry and government.
Our research is academically rigorous and policy relevant.
As a postgraduate student, you will have access to the latest research, ensuring that your learning is at the forefront of the field.
Established in 1968 at the University of Reading, we are the only major UK real estate and planning centre to be located within a business school, reflecting our close and longstanding collaborative relationship with industry and employers.
Real Estate Investment and Finance (IPF entry route)
MSc Real Estate Finance
MSc Real Estate - Flexible
MSc Real Estate Investment and Finance - Flexible
MSc Real Estate
MSc Spatial Planning and Development

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/speech-and-language-therapy-pg:
Language is at the heart of human life; study a subject crucial to our understanding of ourselves as individuals, as members of society, and as a species.
At the University of Reading you will benefit from excellent teaching informed by cutting-edge research; 100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience).
A purpose-built NHS speech and language clinic on campus means that you can access first-class observational facilities, a well-equipped speech research laboratory and a new sound recording room.
Furthermore, we are closely associated with the Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics and the Centre for Literacy and Multilingualism.
These provide state-of-the-art facilities including eye-tracking, EER, fMRI and TMS, and a rich multidisciplinary research environment.
Additionally, you can benefit from excellent and varied placement opportunities.
This is thanks to our close relationship with local speech and language therapy services and the large proportion of our staff who are qualified and practising speech and language therapists.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/strategic-studies-pg:
Collaborate with academics who have personal experience of public policy, government departments and international organisations (including NATO), or working as advisers to government (including in the UK, the US, France, Italy and Germany).
We are a lively and dynamic research-led department with particular strengths in political theory, strategic/conflict studies, public policy and comparative government.
We are proud to be the academic home of the Leverhulme Trust Climate Justice Programme, the Ways of War Centre, and the British Army Higher Education Pathway.
You will also have access to the staff seminar and to the intellectual expertise of scholars in neighbouring departments such as History, Economics, Philosophy, and Law.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/teaching-pg:
We are one of the leading providers of teacher training in the UK.
Our Institute of Education is an established provider of high-quality training and research in education.
The University has recently been ranked in the top 200 in the world for Education (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025).
Our passion for transforming lives through education is at the heart of our commitment to developing caring, reflective, professional educational practitioners.
Locally, work closely with over 400 well-established partner schools to train the next generation of outstanding teachers.
At master's level, we offer a broad range of courses to suit the needs of our students.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/typography-and-graphic-communication-pg:
Our Department has an outstanding reputation for its research.
We are a highly ranked University for Art and Design – 9th in the UK in the Complete University Guide 2026.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/zoology-pg:
Overall, 93.3% of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes graduates of MSc by Research Entomology and MSc Species Identification and Survey Skills (former name of MSc Ecological Survey Skills with Placement)).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/agriculture-ug:
We are the highest-ranking UK university for this subject area, ranked 20th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 – Agriculture & Forestry).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/architectural-engineering-ug:
As part of the cohort joining our architectural engineering courses in 2026, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/architecture-ug:
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Architecture course in 2026, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of your three years of the undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/bioveterinary-sciences-ug:
We are the highest-ranking UK university for this subject area, ranked 20th in the world (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 – Agriculture and Forestry).
We’re ranked 6th in the UK for Agriculture and Forestry (in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/building-and-surveying-ug:
As part of the cohort joining our building and surveying courses in 2026, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug:
Study with Henley Business School and you’ll be part of a global, high-calibre learning community that will equip you for success in the business world.
Part of the University of Reading, Henley Business School has a worldwide reputation for excellence.
Among an elite group of business schools, it holds triple-accredited status from the UK, European and US accrediting bodies (AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB).
You’ll gain a head start in securing jobs in accounting, consultancy, human resources, IT, marketing, operations and general management.
Based at the University of Reading's Whiteknights campus – in the heart of the UK's “Silicon Valley” – we have strong working relationships with companies, and host regular events which allow students to network and hear from industry leaders.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/construction-management-ug:
Our four construction management courses share a common first two years; this enables you to wait until towards the end of your second year to choose which course is the right fit for you.
As part of the cohort joining our surveying and construction courses in 2026, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/consumer-behaviour-and-marketing-ug:
Understanding the psychology of consumers is key to this subject.
You will get to grips with the motivations, thoughts, feelings, decision-making and behaviours of a target audience.
You will also think about how a consumer interacts with their social, economic and cultural environments to achieve their goals.
Consumer behaviour underpins all marketing activities and policy formulation.
The ability to understand, interpret and predict consumer actions is therefore incredibly valuable in the working world.
It is vital to the success of any business venture, policy think-tank or trade organisation in the corporate, public or voluntary sectors.
You will study business with a focus on marketing techniques – relating to advertising, customer relations, market research, consumer behaviour, public relations (PR) and event organisation.
Graduates from this Chartered Institute of Marketing accredited course could end up working in any of these areas, or in marketing departments of a diverse range of companies in finance, the media, retail or charities.
BSc Food Business and Marketing is a blend of business management, marketing and economics, with a focus on the food industry.
An exciting part of the course is a marketing research project, which enables you to work as a consultant for a real food business.
Graduates of this Chartered Institute of Marketing accredited course will be well-placed to move into a range of key business roles within the food industry and other sectors.
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing with Foundation Year
BSc Food Business and Marketing with International Foundation Year - January entry
BSc Food Business and Marketing with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Food Business and Marketing with Placement Year
BSc Food Business and Marketing

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/creative-writing-ug:
Take an active role in literature with a creative writing degree from the University of Reading.
No matter which course you choose, you will learn from prize-winning authors and visiting writers as you explore fiction, drama, poetry and creative-non-fiction.
In your final year of study, you will also have the opportunity to specialise in either prose or poetry through one of our creative writing masterclass modules.
In these advanced modules you will read and discuss recently published texts, identify and write about the themes that are currently popular, and pursue publication yourself.
Creative writing studies at Reading are hosted by our Department of English Literature , a research-active academic community with access to superb resources and literary treasures .
In The Guardian University Guide 2025, the University of Reading is ranked 9th for English.
100% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – English Language and Literature).
Our focus on student success is illustrated by the fact that 95% of graduates from the Department of English Literature are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation.
(Based on our analysis of HESA data, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23; includes first degree English Literature responders.)
Our creative writing lectures concentrate on specific, practical issues, such as how to construct a character, or how to write historical fiction.
You will be assigned novels, short stories or poems to read beforehand, and your lecturer will draw examples from these to illustrate their advice.
We are committed to teaching through the workshop model.
These small group sessions are the heart of Reading’s writing community.
Guided by one of our lecturers, you and your fellow students will gain confidence as your share your writing and help each other improve through practical writing exercises.
In the latest National Student Survey, 97% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 97% of responders from the Department of English Literature).
You will also have the opportunity to publish your work – and gain experience in editing and publishing – by participating in our online creative writing magazine .
Find out more about our creative writing studies, including information about our academics, on the Department of English Literature’s creative writing webpage .
BA Creative Writing and Film
BA English Literature with Creative Writing
I am now taking two master classes in prose and poetry and these have just been a great opportunity to really fine tune my skill and my technique and find out who I am as a writer, and it's also been a good opportunity to think about perhaps publishing later on.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/criminology-ug:
At the heart of criminology are three questions: what is crime?
What is justice?
What is punishment?
At Reading, you’ll learn how crime is defined by law, in public opinion and by powerful groups, and uncover the impact of crime on individuals, communities and societies.
You’ll discuss why particular types of social problems are seen as criminal whereas others – such as environmental degradation or tax evasion – do not.
Criminology is a meeting point of many disciplines, including sociology, social policy, law, and philosophy, and covers an extremely wide range of issues, including:
Learn from criminology experts
Our academics contribute to global and UK policy development, and law and criminal justice reforms through their work with governments and regulatory agencies such as the Law Commission and the United Nations .
Others have been involved with, or cited in, cases before courts, including the European Court of Justice and the UK Supreme Court .
They also work closely with some of the main penal reform organisations like the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies .
You’ll benefit from the research and teaching expertise of the School of Law , where 99% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Law).
Practical experience
Our contacts in the field of criminal justice and other relevant organisations help students gain practical experience through volunteering opportunities, placements and work experience.
You can also participate in the School of Law’s popular mock trials, known as moots.
Careers
The study of criminology will prepare you for a diverse range of careers, such as in government and the Civil Service, criminal justice, social and charity work, non-governmental organisations, think tanks, and investigative journalism.
Your law modules will also equip you for work or further study in the legal sector.
BSc Criminology
LLB Law with Criminology
BSc Criminology with Foundation
Register your interest
You can register your details with us to receive information about your course of interest and study and life at the University of Reading.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/drama-ug:
Explore the role of acting and performance in our world and expand your theatre-making practice.
Join the Department of Film, Theatre & Television , where you’ll have the opportunity to explore a range of roles and practices as part of your studies and hone your creative skills as a writer, actor, director, designer, technician or performer.
You’ll also have the chance to undertake industry placements, professional collaborations and study abroad opportunities, developing   your practice in a range of contexts.
Our courses will equip you with the relevant tools to express your creativity in acting and performance.
You'll deepen your understanding of the relationship between acting ,theatre and performance and  wider social, political, cultural and ecological contexts and practices.
Our programmes combine practical learning with critical exploration of the histories, practices and frameworks that inform contemporary performance.
At least 60% of your classes take place in practical workshops and rehearsals, helping you build a broad range of creative, academic and technical skills that are valuable throughout your degree and future career.
The Department is based in the purpose-built, industry-standard Minghella Studios, a collection of bright, open and flexible spaces, including three versatile theatre halls, all licensed for public performance.
Our studios are situated on the University of Reading’s green Whiteknights campus, a leader in sustainable practice across the higher education sector.
BA Acting and Performance

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/ecology-ug:
Study ecology at the University of Reading and develop the knowledge and skills to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing the world today.
Our ecology programmes reveal how living things behave, evolve and interact with their environments, providing you with the expertise to confront global issues such as:
Our Whiteknights campus is home to more than one thousand different animal species and multiple habitats: a lake, meadows, woodlands and extensive parkland.
This offers a unique learning environment for practical classes, allowing you to step straight from the laboratory into the field.
During your degree you will have the opportunity to practise species identification and ecology skills through field trips to Spain and the tropics.
These will also enable you to study biodiversity in other habitats such as arid landscapes, forests and oceans.
The University has strong links with the RSPB wildlife charity, the Environment Agency, and the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust.
Several of our students have undertaken placements with these organisations and gained valuable experience within the sector.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/economics-ug:
Almost all issues of public and private policy involve economics, as do our personal decisions.
Is global warming the inevitable consequence of economic growth?
Why are so many rich countries in debt?
Does money bring happiness?
Why do people migrate?Why are energy prices rising?
Economics helps provide answers.
To do so, it works closely with a wide range of other subjects, including finance, history, politics, environmental sciences, mathematics and statistics.
As well as standard topics of economic analysis, this interdisciplinary approach helps us explore a wide range of issues.
There is little that an economist would regard as having no economic content.
Explore the theoretical aspects of economics, as well as its real-world applications.
Our research clusters include: Behavioural Economics, Business Economics and Finance, Development Economics, Labour and Household Economics, and Sport Economics.
To deliver research-led teaching, we align our modules to our research clusters, ensuring your learning is being informed by the latest developments.
Our staff are active researchers who are experts in a wide range of fields in economics, with many involved in research that informs policy decisions by governments, major multinational organisations and international agencies like the UN.
In addition to traditional lectures, you will take part in group tutorials in which you can discuss and analyse theory and practice through case studies, exercises, group presentations and open debate.
You will have the opportunity to extend your study of economics beyond the classroom through our student-run Economics Society, which has arranged lectures on topics ranging from 'How happy are you?' to 'Are you a Marxist economist?' as well as weekly conversations with economists on topical matters such as the economics of health and feminism.
The Department of Economics offers a wide choice of modules covering the theoretical aspects of economics as well as its real-world applications in areas such as development economics, business economics, public economics and urban economics.
You also have the option to select modules from other subject areas, including history, politics and international relations.
You can extend your single honours degree by a year by studying at one of our approved partner universities in the USA, Europe or Australia, or by incorporating a one-year placement into your degree programme.
The University of Reading is ranked 10th in the UK in Business and Economics subjects (Times Higher Education World University Rankings by Subject 2024, United Kingdom providers only) and 100% of our research impact has been classed "outstanding" or "very considerable” (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Business and Management Studies, and Anthropology and Development Studies).
BA Economics with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BA Economics with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BA Economics with a Placement Year
BA Economics
BA History and Economics
BSc Business Economics with a Placement Year
BSc Business Economics
BSc Economics and Finance with International Foundation Year - January Entry
BSc Economics and Finance with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Economics and Finance
BSc Economics with a Placement Year
BSc Economics
BSc Geography and Economics (Regional Science) with Professional Experience
Full Time:  4 Years | Other: including a placement year
BSc Geography and Economics (Regional Science)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/education-ug:
98% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Education).
In the National Student Survey, 2025, 100% of our BA Education Studies students said teaching staff are good at explaining things, and 100% said the course has developed the knowledge and skills they think they will need for the future (National Student Survey 2025, BA Education Studies).
We also have the joint 16th highest score for graduate prospects in the UK (Complete University Guide 2026 – Education).
Our BA Education Studies course balances theory with practice to ensure you receive a well-rounded education with a strong focus on inclusion.
BA Education and Psychology
Leading the way
Education Studies student Ayishia Jones is a strong advocate for social justice.
She believes that the education system should put equity and inclusion at the very top of the agenda.
Read Ayishia's story
This degree allows me to explore social justice and inequalities, children’s development of learning, special educational needs education and inclusion, and policies of education in the UK and global context.
The opportunity of placements in various settings will equip me with transferable skills for the real world.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/engineering-ug:
We offer undergraduate engineering degrees in two different disciplines, giving you freedom to study the subject from an architectural or biomedical perspective.
Our architectural engineering courses, taught by the School of Construction Management and Engineering and the School of Architecture , combine the creativity of architectural and building design with a strong technical overview of energy systems and environmental engineering.
Close relationships with industry and professional institutions will give you the opportunity to build a valuable network of contacts during your studies.
You can also gain insight into an industry by carrying out a paid industrial placement year, or a summer placement, before your final year of study.
We also offer an immersive virtual reality "CAVE" that enables you to interact with 3D digitised environments.
We offer a three-year BEng, and a four-year MEng, versions of the architectural engineering course.
Discover the application of engineering methods and approaches in healthcare and biology, including inventing technologies to diagnose disease at early stages, restoring lost body functions, and improving the quality of life for patients and the elderly.
At Reading, our aim is to inspire and train the future graduate engineers to develop the next generation of medical devices, health diagnostic systems and biocompatible prostheses.
Our courses, taught by 60 full-time expert academics from the School of Biological Sciences , specialise in subjects such as electronics, physiology, robotics, genetics and more.
We offer BEng, MEng and PhD degrees, so you can choose the level of specialisation you wish to pursue.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/english-language-and-applied-linguistics-ug:
An ever-changing medium of communication, its study is crucial to our understanding of ourselves as members of society, as individuals and as a species.
Reading’s Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics has 60 years of excellence in the field, and we’re in the top 150 universities in the world for these subjects (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025).
In the Guardian University Guide 2025, we are ranked 9th for English, and we are ranked 3rd in UK for English Language in the Daily Mail University Guide 2025.
David Crystal OBE (awarded for services to the English Language, 1995) set up the first linguistics degree at the University of Reading, and sociolinguistics was born at Reading.
We offer dynamic and cutting-edge programmes that focus on the way that language is used in the real world.
Studying how we communicate with each other in speech and in writing is a vital means of understanding ourselves as individuals and as members of our communities.
At Reading, we offer a friendly and supportive environment where you can tailor your degree to suit your own interests and ambitions.
You can study either English language and linguistics or English literature as a single honours course.
You can combine the two in our BA English Language and Literature course, or you can study either with another subject (such as BA Modern Languages, for example).
Whatever you choose to study, you’ll be taught in supportive, small groups by leading experts in your subject.
100% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics).
We offer targeted careers support with a focus on careers that may be of interest to English language and applied linguistics students.
In particular, support addresses the needs of students from under-represented groups.
100% of graduates from English Language and Applied Linguistics are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation.
(Three-year average, based on our analysis of HESA data, Graduate Outcomes Surveys 2021/22 to 2022/23.
Includes full-time, UK domiciled, first degree English Language and Applied Linguistics responders.)
We also offer ample opportunities for students to apply to study abroad, for either a semester or a full academic year, at universities in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and USA.
Visit the Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics website .
BA English Language and Linguistics with Foundation
BA English Language and Linguistics with Placement Experience
BA English Language and Linguistics
BA English Language and Literature
After finishing my first year at the University of Reading, I realised that studying English Language here was one of the best decisions I had made during my A levels.
I find it fascinating to see how one small word or sentence can have such a great effect on the world around us, and how every individual can take or draw something different from those words.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/english-literature-ug:
‘Literature’, says the poet Ezra Pound, ‘is news that stays news’.
Our rich and vital literary inheritance informs the way we think about the world.
It expresses how we feel about ourselves and others and stimulates both intellect and imagination.
At Reading, we believe that the study of English literature provides not only a rewarding challenge and an active pleasure, but also the foundation of a critical and cultural awareness that will remain with you for life.
We are a very research-active department with a century-long history of innovation in English studies, and we continue to extend our curriculum to include contemporary American literature as well as new writing from Britain and Ireland.
You will become part of a conversation about the way our subject is developing.
You will also develop your own writing skills; whether your ambition is to write creatively or in a professional context, you will graduate with the confidence and skill to say exactly what you mean.
Throughout your degree, you will be provided with consistent support that will set you up for the future:
In the Guardian University Guide 2025, we are ranked 9 th for English.
In your second year, you may be able to spend a semester studying abroad at one of our partner institutions in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and USA .
This is a great opportunity to continue your study of English literature while immersing yourself in a different culture.
BA English Literature and Film
BA English Literature with Foundation
BA English Literature
BA History and English Literature
Armed with a degree in English or English literature, employers immediately know that you'll have these communication skills and the confidence to articulate yourself both verbally and in writing, and this is something that's completely invaluable.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/environment-ug:
Environmental issues affect us all – protecting and understanding the natural world are vitally important to tackling global challenges.
The University of Reading has been at the forefront of research into sustainability and the environment for many decades.
100% of our research impact in this area has been classed 'outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences).
The University is in the top 150 in the world for Environmental Sciences (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025, Joint 108th out of 551 overall) and has also been named Sustainable University of the Year in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
You can choose to study the environment from a scientific perspective and discover how to develop strategies for tackling important issues such as pollution.
You can also study a blend of scientific and socioeconomic elements, and discover how environmental resources can be sustainably managed for different purposes.
Alternatively, you may like to focus on ecology and the protection of delicate ecosystems and endangered species.
You will benefit from being taught by staff who are national and international experts in their fields.
Our courses bring together expertise from a number of departments, and you will be able to tap into their specialist knowledge.
Learn with internationally-recognised academics who are researching global topics such as:
Develop your practical skills in our large teaching labs and analyse geographical data in our high-spec computer suites.
You'll have access to the latest software, including Geographical Information Systems (GIS), remote sensing, and image processing packages.
Benefit from our award-winning campus, which is consistently recognised as one of Britain's top green spaces (Whiteknights campus has been awarded 14 consecutive Green Flag Awards, 2011–2024) and is used by students as a living laboratory.
We offer multiple habitats for study, including lakes, hay meadows, woodland, farmland, and extensive parkland.
As the demands on the Earth's resources increase, so does the need for well-qualified graduates in this field.
We offer a range of opportunities to develop work-related skills and gain valuable experience during your studies, from year-long placements in industry to partnerships with organisations on research projects.
Our courses have been designed with the needs of employers in mind and our links with organisations such as the Environment Agency, the RSPB, Thames Water and the UK Met Office allow you to gain industry insight through visits, talks and placements.
There are also plenty of opportunities to get involved with local wildlife and conservation groups including Conserve Reading on Wednesdays (CROW) and Berks, Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust (BBOWT).
BSc Environmental Science with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Environmental Science with Professional Experience
BSc Environmental Science with Study Year Abroad
BSc Environmental Science
The perfect location
The Whiteknights campus offers multiple habitats for study: lakes, hay meadows and woodland as well as extensive parkland.
You will use these for practical classes and can step straight from the laboratory to the field.
The University also owns a number of large working farms in the vicinity that are often used as field sites for final-year projects.
The excellent laboratory training and broad knowledge base gained from Environmental Science allowed me to undertake a summer placement and apply my skills to a different area of work.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/film-and-television-ug:
Studying film and television at Reading means you’ll be based at our purpose-built, £11m facilities that feature a multi-camera film and TV studio, a digital cinema, and dedicated recording studio and mixing suite.
You’ll study the histories, styles and social impact of film and television, and apply these insights and ideas to collaborative screen productions.
Your practical work can include directing, projection, sound and lighting, as well as post-production techniques such as editing, colour grading and sound mixing.
Plus, Minghella Studios is home to a team of dedicated technicians, supporting your creative journey.
Our Department is also home to a team of leading academics, who specialise in topics such as:
Being at Reading will place you in one of the fastest-growing screen industry hubs in the UK, with a thriving theatre and performance scene.
You’ll also be close to Shinfield Studios (hosts to the recent filming for Netflix’s ‘Bridgerton’ and Disney’s ‘Star Wars: The Acolyte’ and ‘Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire’) which are built on our land and part of the Screen Berkshire partnership.
We also have partnerships with Albert Education, Arri Certified Film School, FEST, Rabble Theatre, Reading Rep Theatre, Climate Change Theatre Action and South St Theatre.
The wide variety of modules, as well as the wide variety of skills that are taught makes this course a brilliant pick for someone passionate about Film and Television production."

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/finance-ug:
We are:
All of our finance degrees are affiliated with the CFA Institute .
BSc Finance (FinTech) with Placement Year
BSc Finance (FinTech) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Finance (FinTech)
BSc Finance (International Business) with Placement Year
BSc Finance (International Business) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Finance (International Business)
BSc Finance (Investments) with Placement Year
BSc Finance (Investments) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Finance (Investments)
BSc Finance with Foundation
BSc Finance with Placement Year
BSc Finance with Study Year Abroad
BSc Finance
BSc Finance (Sustainable Finance) with Placement Year
BSc Finance (Sustainable Finance) with Study Year Abroad
BSc Finance (Sustainable Finance)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/food-and-nutrition-ug:
We all need food to survive: it's a product that will be forever in demand.
So it's not surprising that the sector is Europe's largest and most buoyant industry.
Featuring regularly in the national media, food is often found at the centre of debates on such areas as human health and disease, global shortages and surpluses, consumer demand, the rights and wrongs of genetic modification, and food quality and nutrition.
Through studying one of our courses in food and nutritional sciences or food business and marketing, you can explore these issues and prepare yourself for an exciting and relevant career.
The University of Reading is a world authority on food chemistry, chemical engineering, microbiology, food law, and human nutrition.
In the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences , you will have access to one of the largest ranges of dedicated food teaching facilities in a UK university.
These include a large pilot plant containing processing equipment for food product development work, advanced taste panel facilities, and specialist laboratories for assessing human gut microflora.
In the Department of Agri-Food Economics and Marketing – home to our food business and marketing degree – you’ll benefit from staff expertise in food consumer behaviour.
Staff will help you get to grips with the challenges of sustainable food system transformation from farm to fork, while developing strong entrepreneurial and digital skills for the food industry.
Graduates from many of our food and nutritional sciences degrees will be recognised as professional food scientists or food technologists by the Institute of Food Science and Technology .
Our food business and marketing degrees are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing , enabling graduates to receive exemptions from all but one module of the Certificate in Professional Marketing or Certificate in Professional Digital Marketing qualification, or exemptions from all but two CIM modules for the Diploma in Professional Marketing qualification or Diploma in Professional Digital Marketing.
Graduates from our nutrition courses will also be eligible to apply to become a Registered Associate Nutritionist with the Association for Nutrition via the direct entry pathway, providing a clear and respected marker of your status as a nutrition professional.
The University of Reading ranks 1st for graduate salary for Agriculture, food and related studies after five years; the average salary calculated at £36,500 is over £8,500 more than the average graduate salary after five years for this subject across all universities (Telegraph analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, published in June 2025).
Our selection of courses enables you to pursue your interests within the food sector, whether you are keen to study it from a technological, nutritional, or business angle.
BSc Food Business and Marketing with Foundation Year
BSc Food Science with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Food Science with Foundation
BSc Food Science with Industrial Training
BSc Food Science
BSc Food Technology with Bioprocessing with Industrial Training
BSc Food Technology with Bioprocessing

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/foundation-programmes-ug:
Prepare yourself for degree-level study: gain subject-specific and core skills to excel on your chosen undergraduate course.
Our foundation programmes offer you a direct pathway into studying at the University of Reading if you do not have the typical entry qualifications.
We offer a range of exciting degree courses — from science to arts and humanities — that can be accessed through a foundation year.
The year is an opportunity to gain the required skills and knowledge to set you up for your first year of degree study.
For example, if you’re progressing onto a science degree, you may focus on basic principles in biology and chemistry, as well as underpinning skills in mathematics.
Central skills, including academic writing and researching, are available on all pathways.
A foundation year is more than just a stepping-stone to a degree.
You will also benefit from:
Depending on your chosen degree, you will learn through a combination of lectures, tutorials, practical classes and workshops.
After the foundation year
The skills you’ll learn in the foundation year will prepare you to begin your first year of degree study.
You are guaranteed a place on your chosen undergraduate course upon successful completion of the foundation year to a satisfactory level.
LLB Law with Foundation

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/french-ug:
France has a rich and revolutionary culture and history.
It is also well known for excelling in the arts, from the Nouvelle Vague in cinema to expressionist painting.
Our students develop an in-depth knowledge of the French language, the wider culture of Francophonie in the many countries across the globe where French is spoken, and the varied history, literature and cinema in which the language is embedded.
You will have the opportunity to study with staff who are internationally recognised experts in French-speaking literature, history and culture – including the literature of the French Caribbean, French children’s books and publishing, twentieth-century French history, history and art, and translation studies.
You can study French as one of the options in our BA Modern Languages programme: either on its own, in combination with another language, or with another subject, such as Economics, English, History, International Relations or Business.
In each year you will study a French language module (starting from beginner’s, intermediate or advanced level in the first year, and achieving near-native fluency in the final year).
Alongside the language module, you will take a number of cultural modules (the exact number of cultural modules you can take depends on whether you are studying French on its own, or in combination with another language or another subject).
You'll spend up to a year in a French-speaking country, studying at a university, working on a placement, or as a British Council language assistant in a school.
This enables you to immerse yourself in the culture and develop your language to a high level.
The core language module in the second year will prepare you for your time abroad, equipping you with the skills and knowledge required to work and live in a different culture.
You will gain numerous transferable skills in research, analysis, presenting and group working, and will receive careers advice and CV workshops to enhance your career prospects.
Studying or working abroad provides evidence of self-reliance, adaptability and enterprise, making you highly attractive to employers
By the time you graduate, you can expect to be able to write and speak fluently in French.
I immensely enjoyed studying French at the University of Reading.
Every person I came across in the French Department was friendly, supportive and encouraging.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/geography-ug:
Geography at Reading investigates human–environment relationships and confronts the biggest challenges of the twenty-first century.
In studying with us, you will develop the critical, analytical and professional skills to explore cultural, political and environmental processes.
You will do so through learning about and conducting cutting-edge research on topics such as climate change, resilience and adaptation, community development, sustainable consumption, energy production, environmental pollution and natural hazards.
Our internationally renowned academic staff carry out research across the world, including the rainforests of Liberia, the Andean mountains of Colombia, the shanty towns of Mozambique and the sand dunes of the Namib Desert, all of which feeds directly into teaching.
You can specialise in either human or physical geography from the beginning, or, on our most popular degree, develop a mix of both human and physical geography.
Our courses are flexible and student-centred, allowing you to follow your interests within geography and in other related subjects across the University.
Research opportunities and training are central to your experience with us.
Collect your own geographical data on one of our overseas field trips and analyse data in our high-spec computer suites.
Here, you can access the latest software, including Geographical Information Systems (GIS), remote sensing and image processing packages.
We offer award-winning teaching and innovative, problem-solving assessment methods, practical skills development, and a year of professional experience.
Our study abroad programme offers you the opportunity to apply to study at one of our partner universities in Europe, Australia, Canada or the USA.
All classes are conducted in English and bursaries are available to help with travel and accommodation costs.
GeogSoc is our very active student society that organises social and academic events throughout the year, including extra-curricular trips, formal and informal get-togethers.
You will also have a student mentor to help you make the transition to university.
Our degrees are designed for you to develop attributes desired by employers, so you’ll acquire an impressively wide range of transferable skills to take with you into further study or work.
BSc Geography (Human and Physical) with Professional Experience
BSc Geography (Human and Physical)
BSc Geography (Human) with Professional Experience
BSc Geography (Human)
BSc Geography (Physical) with Professional Experience
BSc Geography (Physical)

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/german-ug:
Germany is a leading economic and political force internationally, and has historically played a central role in shaping European culture.
Our students develop a high level of expertise in the German language, together with an in-depth knowledge of social, cultural and political issues relating to the German-speaking world and its increasing diversity.
Through the study of a wide range of topics in history, film, literature and linguistics, you will gain a deep understanding of the cultural developments that shaped modern Germany, including the profound impact of the reunification of East and West Germany in 1989.
German studies offers you a life-changing experience that opens doors and prepares you for your future.
You will spend up to a year in Germany or Austria, studying at a partner institution, undertaking a work placement or working as a British Council language teaching assistant.
This allows you to immerse yourself in the culture of the country and greatly improve your knowledge of German at the same time.
You can study German as one of the options in our BA Modern Languages programme: either on its own, in combination with another language, or with another subject, such as Economics, English, History, International Relations or Business.
In each year you will study a German language module (starting from beginner’s, intermediate or advanced level in the first year, and achieving near-native fluency in the final year).
Alongside the language module, you will take a number of cultural modules (the exact number of cultural modules you can take depends on whether you are studying German on its own, or in combination with one or two other languages or another subject).
Our modules are inspired by the research expertise of our staff, who bring their in–depth knowledge and their passion into the classroom.
By the time you graduate, you can expect to be able to write and speak fluently in German.
Whilst studying German at Reading, there were so many opportunities to get involved with the Department.
The range of content offered in the modules was fantastic, and the lecturers are passionate and supportive.
I had an incredible four years and wish I could do it all again!

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/graphic-communication-and-design-ug:
Our course brings together creativity, curiosity, and innovation.
It is ideal if you want to apply your visual abilities and scholarly strengths to the challenges of graphic communication and design.
The Department of Typography and Graphic Communication offers you a distinctive approach to a design degree.
Our dynamic course builds skills in thinking critically, analytically, and reflectively, enabling you to see design’s ‘big picture’ and its essential details.
You will pursue design as cross-media practice, recognising how history and theory inform design, and conducting professional practice.
We will equip you for a career in design by combining a strong practical base with an understanding of what makes good design succeed.
We take you below the surface to ask questions about design’s deeper purpose.
We also provide you with access to a high-profile alumni network of design professionals.
Our curriculum is constantly evolving, informed by staff research, innovations in design practice, a drive to use design for social change, and an understanding of how our students learn best.
We welcome students from a wide variety of academic backgrounds, whose experiences and abilities enrich our design community.
Your studies will integrate practice, history and theory through:
Our department explores different ways of engaging with design so that you will become a well-rounded ‘thinking designer’.
You'll develop the ability to express your design ideas confidently and graduate with a diverse and relevant portfolio.
Our graphic communication and design graduates are in high demand because we teach a combination of creative, production and client-facing skills, which help to prepare you for industry after graduating.
We have close links with industry.
Employers such as IBM Design and Oxford University Press are actively engaged with our teaching and offer individual feedback on student projects.
BA Graphic Communication

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/healthcare-ug:
You can choose to study healthcare from a variety of perspectives, including psychology, clinical language sciences, biological sciences, medical sciences, chemistry, food and pharmacy.
You’ll learn from experts in their fields who work collaboratively with other university departments and beyond.
For example, our biomedical science programme was developed in partnership with practising NHS laboratory scientists, some of our psychology modules are taught by professional psychologists from our on-site NHS clinics, and our food courses are designed in collaboration with industry partners who provide a range of work placements for our students.
Our graduates go on to work for employers such as the NHS, Public Health England, and pharmaceutical or academic laboratories.
Others have found work in scientific publishing, clinical trials, with civil services, schools and charities, or have gone on to study for higher research degrees or commence a medical, dentistry or veterinary degree course.
MSci (Hons) Speech and Language Therapy
It was great to have the opportunity to learn about a variety of different topics that have so much relevance in the real world of food, from sensory to microbiology and food processing to genetics.
I particularly enjoyed learning about recent research from enthusiastic lecturers who are experts in their fields and keen to help you learn.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/history-ug:
Are you curious about previous cultures?
Do you wonder how the past has shaped the people we are today?
Come to Reading, study History and discover the richness and variety of the human experience.
History at Reading explores the past and what it means to be human.
Our world-leading experts will take you on a journey through Britain, Europe, Russia, Africa, America, the Middle East and South Asia over the last thousand years.
You can immerse yourself in modules covering subjects such as crusading, witchcraft and heresy, fascism and communism, gender and culture, and politics and colonialism.
You'll learn about a diverse range of societies, cultures and individuals while developing the skills and approaches necessary to study and research history, enabling you to go on to a wide range of careers.
You will be supported by friendly, approachable staff and taught in small interactive seminar groups, encouraging discussion and debate with tutors and fellow students.
Our academics are experts at the forefront of their disciplines, whose research feeds into your studies, giving you exposure to the latest developments in the field.
Our degrees are highly flexible, enabling you to shape your studies to fit your own interests.
Additionally, you will have the opportunity to study abroad and experience life in another culture.
Employability modules and work placements will complement your core learning and prepare you for your future career.
Our history graduates are valued by employers for their research, analytical, teamwork and communication skills.
BA History
Exploring history's hidden voices

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/international-development-ug:
If you’re fascinated by people and places around the world and want to improve your understanding of international issues, this is the subject for you.
International development helps you understand processes of global change.
If you want to reduce poverty and understand how to create a better life for people, this is a great place to start.
Explore critical contemporary issues regarding the sustainability of the planet's resources, food systems, conflict, and pressing issues of inequality.
Address real-world, complex global problems relating to economic growth, social change and political transformation.
The mix of natural and social sciences, transferable skills, quantitative and qualitative analysis, and regular experience of challenges in international development is of particular relevance to careers in business, charities, aid agencies, government departments and research institutions.
For those working in the international development sector, it is typical to build up a portfolio of work, volunteering and experience to enhance employability and career options.
This is why we encourage placements, provide a dedicated career module with real-world experience and enable you to write a research dissertation based on a real-world practical or policy issue.
Organisations are increasingly looking for graduates with a good practical knowledge of the developing world.
Our degree provides this understanding, together with a range of key skills that enhance your employability.
You will also have the opportunity to study a language, to undertake a placement as part of your course, and to apply to study abroad.
BSc Global Sustainable Development with Placement Year
BSc Global Sustainable Development

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug:
Do you want to study at a British university, but don’t have the correct qualifications for direct entry to undergraduate?
Then we recommend our International Foundation Programme (IFP), or one of our undergraduate degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year.
Our IFP will give you the knowledge, academic training, language, skills and confidence you need for undergraduate study in Britain.
After successfully completing the programme and any further relevant entry requirements, you will be guaranteed a place on your undergraduate course at Reading to begin in September of the same year.
Visit the International Foundation Programme site .
Reading has taught the IFP for more than 35 years and thousands of international students from a wide range of educational backgrounds have successfully secured entry onto degrees both here and at other universities.
In the past three years, 91% of IFP students successfully met their entry requirements for University of Reading degrees.
We have an international reputation for excellence, both in our teaching and for the support we give our students.
There are two entry points in the year, depending on your English language levels, and which subjects you would like to study.
The January - August option offers the same quality and benefits as the September - June programme but in a more focused format.
It enables you to progress to any degree within the University of Reading except for Science and Life Science degrees.
For students wishing to progress to degrees in the Henley Business School (Business, Finance, Accounting and Real Estate), Economics or Art, Design and Communication, a foundation year is provided by On Campus .
If you have already decided on the subject you’d like to study, an alternative to the IFP is a 4-year undergraduate degree with an integrated international foundation year (Year 0).
The first year of study (Year 0) is the same as the IFP and after successful completion you can progress onto your chosen undergraduate degree at Reading.
These 4-year programmes enable you to apply for a single visa to cover the full 4-years of study.
For many 4-year programmes, you also have the choice of starting in September or January.
You may also be eligible for a scholarship.
To find out more please visit our scholarships page .
IFP International Foundation Programme - September
Other: Full time: 10 months
BSc Mathematics with International Foundation Year - September Entry
BSc Mathematics with Finance and Investment Banking with International Foundation Year - September Entry
LLB Law with International Foundation Year - September entry
IFP International Foundation Programme - January
Other: Full Time: 7 months

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/italian-ug:
In literature and film, history and politics, business and the arts, Italy has long been among the most important and influential countries in Europe.
A degree in BA Modern Languages studying Italian will allow you to learn more about this country by studying its language in the context of its fascinating culture and history, and will allow you to study or work in Italy.
Modern Languages at Reading attracts students of many different nationalities, ages and educational backgrounds.
They are mostly drawn by our focused and intensive approach to language learning and the opportunity to study an exciting range of optional culture topics with experts from different disciplines, including literature, film and linguistics, within a friendly, professional environment.
We provide accelerated learning in Italian, meaning that you can start from beginner's or intermediate level if you have not studied Italian A level.
Regardless of which level you join the course, you can expect to become confident and highly skilled in written and spoken Italian by the final year.
Our staff are active in research, and 100% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Modern Languages and Linguistics Modern Languages and Linguistics).
In the latest National Student Survey, 98% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024, 97.87% of responders from the Department of Languages and Cultures .)
You can study Italian as one of the options in our BA Modern Languages programme: either on its own, in combination with another language, or with another subject, such as Economics, English, History, International Relations or Business.
In each year you will study an Italian language module (starting from beginners, intermediate or advanced level in the first year, and achieving near-native fluency in the final year).
Alongside the language module, you will take a number of cultural modules.
Our modules are inspired by the research expertise of our staff, who bring their in-depth knowledge of, and their passion for, Italian Studies into the classroom.
By the time you graduate, you can expect to be able to write and speak fluently in Italian – an immensely useful skill.
An increasingly connected world demands language skills, and well-qualified linguists are in short supply in the UK, so there has never been a better time to study a modern language.
I settled on Reading not least because of the history of Italian studies here.
When I came for the interview and Open Day, everyone I met was very friendly and enthusiastic.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/languages-and-cultures-ug:
There’s more to studying a language at the University of Reading than just learning grammar and vocabulary.
It’s an opportunity for you to truly immerse yourself in another culture and develop your language ability to a near-native level.
You'll learn the language in the political, social, historical and cultural contexts of the countries in which it is spoken, giving you the excellent grounding required to achieve fluency.
Our small language classes, which are led by native speakers, provide you with direct access to expert staff, ensuring you develop your written and spoken skills to the best of your ability.
We offer a wide range of courses, meaning you can study a single language, two languages or a language alongside a completely different subject.
Each of our courses provides you with plenty of choice in terms of optional modules, enabling you to tailor your degree to your own interests.
The year abroad was honestly the best year of my life.
I made some of my closest friends from countries all over the world and had so many amazing experiences.
My language massively improved (much more than I thought it would) and it really gave me a sense of feeling European which I think is something that is very important.
I saw and did so many things and I cannot stress how much I would recommend it!

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/law-ug:
Studying law or criminology at Reading provides the perfect balance between academic learning and practical experience.
As a student at the University of Reading’s School of Law , you’ll benefit from teaching that’s supported by applied research.
99% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Law).
You will learn from experienced tutors who are enthusiastic about their subject, and from leading experts in specialist areas such as criminal law, contract law, environmental law, commercial law, and international law.
Some of our tutors are expert advisers to government and policymakers, international organisations, and civil society organisations.
You will also benefit from our commitment to the development of your professional and practical skills through problem-based learning projects, commercial awareness training, and work experience.
You will have the opportunity to take part in client interviewing, negotiation, and mooting competitions , with work experience placements offered as prizes.
University of Reading’s School of Law also hosts one of the largest pro bono programmes in the UK , giving you the opportunity to work – on a voluntary basis – with local charities and other institutions where you will give legal advice and support to real people with real problems.
Our flexible law courses also allow you to select modules from outside the school, including those offered by Politics and International Relations, Humanities, Literature and Languages, and Henley Business School.
The study of law or criminology prepares students not only for the legal profession but also for a diverse range of other careers.
Intellectual strength, a practical approach to the world and the ability to communicate clearly are skills highly valued by employers within local and national government, international organisations, the voluntary sector, and business.
Our courses are designed to expand your knowledge and prepare you for the world of work or further study.
This is through a focus on:
LLB Law
MLaw
Our LLB course is accredited by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and Bar Standards Board and provides you with the first qualification for entry into the legal profession, with the Law Society and Bar Council exempting our graduates from the first stage of professional training.
Visit the Law website.
From day one, I felt that studying Law at Reading was the best choice I could possibly make.
Here, I've met professors that made me passionate about the subject, tutors that helped me to develop my critical thinking and friends form all over the world.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/linguistics-ug:
Language is at the heart of human life, crucial to our understanding of ourselves as individuals, as members of society, and as a species.
You can choose to study linguistics within either the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, or the School of Humanities.
In the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences , you’ll explore the science behind language.
100% of the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences’ research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience).
The School is also home to the Centre for Literacy and Multilingualism, that researches multilingualism, language and literacy.
In the Department of English Language and Applied Linguistics , you’ll investigate topics such as language acquisition, teaching, and its use  in different social contexts, including workplaces, political speeches, media communication and social media interactions.
You’ll develop your knowledge of grammar, phonetics and discourse analysis, and understand how language and linguistics relates to contemporary social issues, including politics, migration, gender and sexuality.
The Department of English Language and Linguistics has 60 years of excellence in the field and was the first to offer a linguistics degree in the UK.
100% of its research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Modern Languages and Linguistics).
Exceptional facilities
Reading is the only university with a purpose-built NHS clinic on site.
This is a huge advantage for students in terms of observation and placements.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/marketing-ug:
The University of Reading offers three innovative and very distinct marketing degrees, all recognised by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) as an Accredited Degree.
This will enable graduates from these programmes to receive exemptions from all but one of the CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing modules.
Get ahead in the marketing world
Draw on the professional support of our careers services and academic teams to develop:
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing offers students an in-depth understanding of the science of marketing, with a strong focus on the psychology behind consumer decision-making to inform marketing strategy and practice.
BSc Food Business and Marketing is a specialist programme enabling students to develop business and marketing skills in the context of the food industry.
BSc Business and Management (Marketing) is a new programme pathway, which allows business students the opportunity to focus an increasing proportion of their study on marketing topics as they progress through their degree.
BSc Consumer Behaviour and Marketing , the first of its kind in the UK, brings together the disciplines of consumer behaviour, marketing, applied psychology and applied economics taught by world-leading specialists from the Department of Applied Economics and Marketing (School of Agriculture, Policy and Development), the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, and Henley Business School.
Our Consumer Behaviour and Marketing course reveals the theory and application behind the promotion of products, services and ideas in all sectors.
You will understand the motivations, thoughts, feelings, decision-making and behaviours of target audiences.
You will see how consumers interact with their social, economic and cultural environments to achieve their goals, and use your knowledge to devise effective marketing strategies and digital campaigns.
BSc Food Business and Marketing draws on the University's internationally recognised expertise in the food chain and its excellent links with industry.
Based in the Department of Applied Economics and Marketing (School of Agriculture, Policy and Development), it benefits from close links with the Chartered Institute of Marketing's sector interest group for the food industry.
The food industry is fundamental to us all, it is fast paced and constantly evolving, requiring well trained graduates.
Our degree combines training in the inter-related disciplines of business management, economics and marketing, with an opportunity to apply this knowledge to the wide variety of global and local challenges surrounding the food industry, giving you the skills needed to gain a career in the food industry or in the wider business world.
BSc Business and Management (Marketing) constitutes one of the subject pathways within the business and management programme delivered by Henley Business School.
The first year of the programme provides a grounding in core areas of business, such as strategy, accounting, data analysis and, of course, marketing.
In the second and final years, half of all modules will focus on marketing topics, with students able to specialise entirely on marketing in their final year if they wish.
The programme also offers flexibility for those students whose interests (and career aspirations) evolve during the course of their studies.
Students can transfer to another Business and Management programme during their studies.
All three courses offer a stimulating mix of academic knowledge and professional skills in subjects including: consumer behaviour, branding, digital marketing and the analysis of marketing data.
All programmes can be taken over four years to include either a professional placement or a study abroad year.
Students have access to dedicated professional careers support, and will be joining a thriving marketing community.
Social and professional events are organised by our student-led Marketing and Entrepreneurship Societies and through our excellent links with the CIM.
* Placements are subject to availability and are dependent on students securing the opportunity.
When I first walked on to campus, it just felt like home.
I knew straight away that this was the place for me and I would be happy here.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/mathematics-ug:
Mathematics is essential to modern society, from the development of new technologies to the numerical modelling of financial systems.
You can study mathematics as a single honours degree or combine it with other subjects, such as economics, finance and investment banking, computer science, or statistics and data science.
All of our courses enable you to learn coding and programming skills.
The world is increasingly reliant on computing and digital information, and the digital economy is growing rapidly in the UK and internationally, so graduates with these skills are in high demand from employers.
You will receive plenty of support to help you get the most out of your studies, including:
Most of our courses are accredited by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications , the body that awards Chartered Mathematician status.
Please see our course pages for more information.
BSc Mathematics
BSc Mathematics with a Placement Year
MMath Mathematics
MMath Mathematics with a Placement Year
BSc Mathematics with Finance and Investment Banking
BSc Mathematics with Finance and Investment Banking with a Placement Year
BSc Mathematics and Statistics with Data Science
BSc Mathematics and Statistics with Data Science with a Placement Year
Exciting placement opportunities
During her mathematics degree, Gwen Perry joined Thames Water on a placement year.
She worked with new statistical programmes, and used research and data processing methods to investigate, analyse and resolve issues affecting the business.
Read Gwen's story
My time at the University of Reading has been packed full of wonderful experiences and fantastic learning.
The department has been very supportive, with approachable lecturers and postgraduates always finding time to assist with any problems.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/medical-sciences-ug:
Healthcare is a vital area of study, in which you can enhance well-being, prevent disease, improve diagnoses, develop new therapies and advance clinical practice.
You’ll be encouraged to improve your understanding of disease and develop new treatments.
We have a well-established network of clinical partners hosted on campus and regionally.
Our campus is home to NHS clinics for Speech and language therapy and young people mental health, where students work and learn, and to a state-of-the-art Clinical Simulation suite used by students and NHS staff.
Together with The Royal Berkshire Hospital we have set up a Health Innovation Partnership to help support the development of health-related programmes and new research opportunities.
Others have found work in scientific publishing or clinical trials, or have gone on to commence a medical, dentistry or veterinary degree course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/microbiology-ug:
Apply your knowledge to medical, environmental and food-related disciplines and put your skills into practice through experiments and lab work.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/pharmacy-ug:
On average, our students earn an annual salary of £42,700 five years after graduating, and the University of Reading ranks 5thin the UK for graduate salary for pharmacology, toxicology and pharmacy.
(Based on The Telegraph's analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, July 2025).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/real-estate-and-planning-ug:
100% of Real Estate and Planning students are in work and/or further study 15 months after the end of their course (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes UK domiciled, full-time, first-degree Real Estate and Planning respondents).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/sociology-ug:
BSc Sociology with Placement Year

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/speech-and-language-therapy-ug:
At Reading, ranked joint 1st in the UK for Speech & Language Therapy (Complete University Guide, 2026), we offer you the opportunity to study all aspects of this most complex form of human behaviour.
Speech and language therapists (SLTs) assess and treat people who have speech, language and communication problems.
SLTs work in a range of settings, including hospitals, schools, community health centres and clients' homes.
We are a research-led School with academic staff actively engaged in world-class research in a wide range of topics.
This provides our students with access to current thinking and ground-breaking research which will inform their practice.
You will benefit directly from leading discoveries made in areas such as child development, Down syndrome, linguistics, psychology, language development, language pathology and bilingualism/multilingualism.
Additionally, a high proportion of staff are practising speech and language therapists, giving you a direct insight into the latest developments in clinical practice.
You will be able to take advantage of our in-house speech and language therapy clinic, observational facilities, speech research laboratory and new sound recording room.
Our purpose-built NHS speech and language therapy clinic is open to adult and paediatric client groups with a wide range of speech, language and communication difficulties.
You will be involved in all aspects of the day to day running of the clinic, including telephone triage, assessment, providing therapy and running training workshops under supervision of experienced speech and language therapists.You will also spend time observing, treating and working with children and adults in the Clinic.
You will benefit from being involved in our in-house clinic from the moment you arrive at university which offers a fantastic opportunity to begin to develop your clinical practice.
You will also benefit from the study spaces we offer which include, a computer lab, common rooms, Resources room, assessment library and testing cubicles that are open to all students within the School.
Read more about our clinic on our website.
You will be part of a dynamic and collaborative teaching environment as our students are actively involved in research studies, as participants, organisers and collaborators within the School, allowing them to grow into evidence-based practitioners of the future.
These courses are ideal if you have an interest in psychology and communication.
Our MSci Speech and Language Therapy degree is an exciting four-year pre-registration programme for those wishing to qualify as speech and language therapists.
Alternatively, if you don't necessarily want to become an SLT, our BSc in Language Sciences and Psychology will enable you to explore the human mind and communication.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/Subject-area/surveying-and-construction-management-ug:
As part of the cohort joining our surveying and construction management courses in 2026, you may have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of the undergraduate degree ( subject to conditions ).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/dietetics-pg:
Our MSc Dietetic programme offers postgraduate study that combines our clinical excellence with expertise in nutritional research supporting Sustainable Diets for All .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/teaching-pg:
At master’s level, we provide a broad range of courses to suit the needs of our students.
As part of our international partnerships, we also co-deliver an MA English Language Education course with Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, in China.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/a-z-academic:
Agriculture, Policy and Development
Archaeology
Architecture
Art
Arts and Communication Design
Biological Sciences
Biomedical Sciences and Biomedical Engineering
Built Environment
Chemical Analysis Facility
Chemistry
Chemistry, Food & Pharmacy
Classics
Clinical Language Sciences
Computer Science
Construction Management and Engineering
Corporate Learning
Doctoral and Researcher College
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Research
Economics
Education
English Language and Applied Linguistics
English Literature
Film, Theatre & Television
Food and Nutritional Science
Geography and Environmental Science
Graduate Institute of International Development, Agriculture and Economics
Health Sciences
Henley Business School (Faculty)
History
Humanities
ICMA Centre (the Business School for Financial Markets)
Informatics Research Centre (IRC)
International Foundation Programme
International Study and Language Institute (ISLI)
Languages and Cultures
Languages for All
Law
Management
Mathematical, Physical and Computational Sciences
Mathematics and Statistics
Meteorology
Pharmacy
Philosophy
Philosophy, Politics and Economics
Politics and International Relations
Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences
Real Estate and Planning
Typography & Graphic Communication

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/essentials:
Wisdom app Free confidential advice via live chat or video call, 24/7
Report and Support Report anti-social behaviours with your name or anonymously
Mental Health and Wellbeing Advice, support and resources
Me@Reading Student Your student portal - news, information and events
Student Life Event Find all student events on Me@Reading
Make the most of your summer – whether you're coming back or moving on.
Let us signpost you to the right support
Opening hours of services and support during the Summer Vacation
UoR Voice is the University of Reading’s and Reading Students' Union official student podcast, led by students for students.
Everything you need to know about your examinations
Find your perfect study and revision spaces with plenty to chose from
Everything you need to know about student life
Your Student Services are based in the Carrington building and are here to support you through University.
Find out what services are available to you.
Got a question, need help or seeking advice?
Visit the Support Centres to get answers to all of your queries.
The official digital app for current students.
University life just got easier
Stay up to date with the latest student news and events.
From programme specifications to conquering stress, here in one place, is the essential advice that will navigate you through your studies.
Find out about the personal support available to you including learning support, physical and mental health services, disability support and spiritual care.
Discover what we're doing to improve representation, champion diversity and enhance support for underrepresented groups.
A wide range of disability support to assist you through your studies.
Find out about accessible accommodation and financial support.
Helpful guides for every stage of study
Whether living in university Halls of Residence or off campus in private housing, come here for information.
The place to go to find out about fees, how to pay online, get funding, advice and insurance.
It's never too early to start your career planning, gain experience and prepare yourself for the world of work.
Looking for part-time work on campus?
Register with our new service.
Here you will find lots of support, advice and useful contacts to make your time in the UK happy and productive.
Discover the University from both your studies and your leisure time on campus.
All your need-to-know information in one place; a great resource to keep on standby!
Including: University policies, Student Contract and Exceptional Circumstances
We encourage you to report behaviour that makes them feel uncomfortable or threatened.
It will be taken seriously and you will get the support you need and deserve
Projects, partnerships, opportunities for you and a chance to feedback on your experience
Make the most of your time at Reading by expanding your horizons, developing new interests and having fun.
Connect with your wider local community.
It’s all been leading to this!
Make sure you find out all you need to know and don’t miss a thing.
Must have digital channels and student apps
Care for your environment by discovering ways to save energy, travel and recycle.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/staff:
Please log in to the Staff Portal using your Office365 account.
If you are experiencing other technical problems, please email dts@reading.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to your alumni & supporters community
Want to make a difference?
Interested in volunteering?

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/local-community:
About us
Welcome to the University of Reading
We are committed to creating a University for Reading by working together with local partners to benefit the lives of our local community in Reading, Wokingham and the Thames Valley.
The Community Engagement Team embodies the University's commitment to the local community, and is available to answer queries, ideas or concerns by email or at +44 (0) 118 3783279 or +44 (0) 118 3783577.
Help us celebrate the University's centenary by sharing your fondest memories of Reading.
Share your memories with us
We work closely with local authorities and police teams to help our students integrate with the community and to tackle neighbourhood issues, particularly in relation to waste and noise.
Find out more about students in the community and what to do if you have a neighbourhood complaint.
The event brings together colleagues, students, alumni and community partners to award, showcase and celebrate those who have gone above and beyond to volunteer on campus or in their local community.
Discover the 2024 Celebration of Volunteering winners within six different award categories
Each year, many of our students give up their time to volunteer with local organisations and charities .
Throughout the course of their studies, many students also decide to undertake internships with professionals through our Reading Internship Scheme.
Get in touch if you want a volunteering opportunity promoted to our students, or find out how to offer an internship to a student.
The University of Reading has been a part of the communities of Shinfield and Arborfield for many years.
Operating Hall Farm and other land in the area, the University's positive impact on the local economy has long been established.
As time has passed, we have sought new ways to use our land for the benefit of the local people and the environment.
Discover our work within the Shinfield and Arborfield communities
The University of Reading is committed to providing activities and events that are open to everyone in the local community.
If you wish to donate, your gift will help enhance our future community events and activities.
Support community events .
The community team at the University of Reading are small but mighty.
There are many staff across different departments at the University that work with the local community.
Molli Cleaver, Community Relations Manager
Molli started this role in May 2022 but has been at the University since 2016.
Prior to this she has worked in the Commercial Function at the University, was Reading University Students’ Union President 2019/20 and an undergraduate student at the University from 2016 to 2019.
Liz Butler, Neighbourhood Complaints Officer
Liz is likely to be the first person you’ll speak to when you contact the University about a Neighbourhood Complaint.
Liz has been in the role since January 2021, but prior to that has held positions within the higher education sector over her career.
Liz’s hours are normally 7:30 - 13:30 on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Dr Sally Lloyd-Evans, Associate Professor in Human Geography and Public Engagement with Community Research Fellow
Sally is a key driving force in working with local communities to understand the issues that matter to them most through community-led research.
Sally was responsible for setting up the Whitley Researchers, a partnership between Whitley Community Development Association, local residents and the University of Reading, empowering local residents to conduct their own research, voice their own needs and devise solutions to local issues.
Alice Mpofu-Coles, Community Action Research Assistant
Alice works with Dr Sally Lloyd-Evans, Associate Professor in Human Geography and Public Engagement with Community Research Fellow, and the University’s Dean for Diversity and Inclusion Dr Alan Laville on the EDI strategy, Community Engagement, Inclusion, and other community research projects.
She recently finished her PhD research on Identity, Intergenerational & Transnationalism of young immigrants from Zimbabwe in Human Geography.
Prior to this she has worked in the Commercial Function at the University, was Reading University Students’ Union President 2019-20 and an undergraduate student at the University from 2016-19.
Liz’s hours are normally 7.30-1.30 Tuesday and Wednesday mornings.
Alice Mpofu-Coles, Community Action Research Assistant – Alice works with Dr Sally Lloyd-Evans, Associate Professor in Human Geography and Public Engagement with Community Research Fellow, and the University’s Dean for Diversity and Inclusion Dr Alan Laville on the EDI strategy, Community Engagement, Inclusion, and other community research projects.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing:
Apply through Clearing
We’re here to help guide you through every stage of Clearing.
Our Clearing hotline ( +44 (0) 118 402 0900 ) will be open during the following times:
Our online application form allows you to apply directly to Reading in Clearing, so you don't have to wait on the phone.
Explore our undergraduate courses currently available through Clearing.
Clearing is a way of applying to university during the summer, once you have all your exam results.
Course availability varies each year and between universities, but Clearing can offer new opportunities – even if your options were limited earlier in the year.
You might use Clearing if:
At the University of Reading, you'll join an inclusive, forward-thinking community.
Study on our award-winning Whiteknights campus – Green Flag winner 14 years running – and enjoy 24/7 access to our Library during term time.
We’re ranked 25th in the UK (QS World University Rankings 2025) and named Sustainable University of the Year 2025 by The Times and The Sunday Times.
Clearing at the University of Reading:
If you applied to the University of Reading before 30 June and have a firm or insurance offer, please visit our dedicated offer holder pages for information tailored to your application.
When Clearing opens, how to apply, and what to expect every step of the way.
Explore accommodation options for Clearing applicants, plus information for commuter students.
If you are applying from outside the UK, this page specifically addresses your needs.
Attend a campus tour, subject taster day or Clearing Visit Day to learn more about Reading.
Supporting someone through Clearing?
This UCAS guide is here to help you.
Find out about student costs, undergraduate scholarships, and how we can support you financially.
The Global Sustainability Leaders Scholarship is available to eligible Clearing applicants.
Find out more about student life at the University of Reading.
Connect with students to learn what it’s really like to study at Reading and be part of our vibrant community.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/Ready-to-Study:
Find a subject
Explore our accommodation options.
Information for international and EU students.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research:
Explore our research themes
Research at the University of Reading aims to solve some of the biggest problems facing people today, based on four themes: agriculture, food and health; environment; heritage and creativity; and prosperity and resilience.
Working across continents and disciplines, our researchers explore ways to tackle climate change, improve human health, provide food security and understand human culture.
The Medieval Ritual Landscape Project will bring together archaeologists and historians from the University and the British Museum.
The roles will provide academic leadership and support Public Engagement with Research.
Inflammatory Arthritis affects around 10 million people in the UK.
Connect with us
Download the latest issue of our research newsletter.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about:
Explore the courses we offer
Pioneers of people and sustainability
The University of Reading has been at the forefront of UK higher education for nearly a century.
Home to innovation, the University pushes academic boundaries and leads social change, both locally and internationally.
Our four guiding principles form the foundation of our strategy:
Steeped in history, the University of Reading is among the top 30 UK universities in the world* and is home to over 27,000 students from over 160 countries.
Our award-winning green campuses are at the heart of our university community, providing world-class facilities alongside a sustainably-conscious backdrop of nature.
In 2024, our Whiteknights campus received its 14th Green Flag Award in a row, and we are considered one of Britain's top green spaces.
Recently awarded Sustainable University of the Year 2025 in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 , the University is proudly committed to tackling climate change and promoting environmental sustainability.
Our support for sustainable global development has also been recognised by the Times Higher Education .
In their Impact Rankings 2025 , the University ranked in the top 50 universities worldwide.
We continue to be one of the most popular higher education choices in the UK.
Our programmes range from the pure and applied sciences to languages, humanities, social sciences, business and arts.
New research and the latest thinking continually feed into our teaching, with our academic staff working at the forefront of their fields of expertise.
*The University of Reading has maintained its position at 26 in the UK, according to the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2025 , (9 October 2024).
Find out more about our award-winning campuses and the wide variety of facilities on offer at the University of Reading.
Get to know our Vice-Chancellor, President of the Council, our Teaching and Learning Deans, and other key figures at the University.
With over 4,000 academics and professional services staff, the University of Reading is one of Berkshire’s biggest employers.
Monday 22 September 2025 – Friday 26 September 2025
Monday 29 September 2025 – Friday 6 February 2026
Monday 9 February 2026 – Friday 12 June 2026
Monday 22 December 2025 – Friday 16 January 2026
Monday 30 March 2026 – Friday 17 April 2026
Monday 15 June 2026 – Friday 18 September 2026
Calendar for academic year 2025-26 (PDF)
Home to more than 27,000 students, the University of Reading is proud to welcome staff and students from all over the world.
Our award-winning campuses – in Reading, Henley-upon-Thames, Johannesburg, and Iskandar – house contemporary study facilities, halls of residence, support services, cafes and bars.
Visit our Global page for more information.
We established our first overseas campus in Malaysia in 2015, a natural extension of the close ties we have enjoyed with Malaysia over the years.
As a university, we are committed to welcoming and including sanctuary seekers across all teaching, research and community activities.
The University of Reading has been awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize, the highest national honour for a UK higher education institution, on five separate occasions.
At Reading, we are dedicated to staying at the forefront of teaching and learning developments.
Read more about our teaching and learning strategy.
Our wide range of events and activities, available to both students and non-students, includes public events and lectures, museums, a cinema, and our SportsPark.
Whether you're after gigs, great food, sports activities, shopping, local culture or just want a night out with friends, Reading has something for you.
At Reading, we're passionate about what we can offer our local and global community.
Find out more about the range of benefits our work provides to students and wider society.
Campus Commerce provides core services for our students, staff and visitors, covering catering, hotel and conference services, sports, and accommodation contract management.
One of our key ambitions as a university is to continuously invest in providing first-class facilities for our students.
By our centenary year, 2026, we want to significantly build on the successes we have already accomplished so far.
Many of the reasons behind these projects stem directly from student feedback, such as the need for more study space and better technical resources.
Other key factors address sustainability, such as improving energy efficiency and reducing our carbon emissions.
We also have an environmental sustainability strategy that revolves around six themes: community engagement, hospitality operations, waste management, biodiversity, and carbon management.
These are embedded across the University’s curriculum.
While these projects focus on our long-term ambitions, we will be taking great care to minimise the risk of disruption for students currently studying at the University.
Read about the University of Reading's capital investments and campus improvement programme .
Find out more about some of our staff members and how they contribute to the performance, community and culture here at Reading.
Discover our students and alumni who have excelled in their sporting achievements, and help us celebrate their ambition, dedication and success.
We take a fresh approach to working with businesses and building positive, long-term partnerships.
We'll work hard to understand your needs and identify the right approaches.
We make significant economic, social and cultural contributions to Reading, the Thames Valley, the UK and other locations in the world.
Find out more about our economic impact .
View our policies and reference documents .
University is a partnership between us and you.
To find out about your rights and responsibilities as a student, visit our Student Contract page.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/contact-us:
If you are applying through Clearing, please call our Clearing hotline: +44 (0) 118 402 0900
Lines open at 08:00 on Thursday 14 August.
If you are concerned about a student’s welfare and think they need support, please call +44 (0) 118 378 4777 .
The Welfare Team is available Monday to Friday, 10:00-16:00.
If they are living in halls, you can also contact the relevant Hall Warden .
If you have a neighbourhood complaint, please email at community@reading.ac.uk , or call +44 (0) 118 378 3279 or +44 (0) 118 378 3577 .
Our Community Relations Team is also available to answer any questions about our community activity.
If you want to study at the university, or have already applied, contact the Admissions team on +44 (0) 118 378 8372 for information on our undergraduate degrees, or +44 (0) 118 378 5289 for our postgraduate team.
If you have any questions about study at Reading, please submit an enquiry .
If you would like a copy of our prospectus, please fill out our request form .
The Student Services Reception Team are based in the Carrington building and can be contacted at +44 (0) 118 378 5555 or studenthelp@reading.ac.uk .
For more information about the support services in the Carrington building, please visit the Student Services page .
For Immigration or Home Office Compliance enquiries, please email immigration@reading.ac.uk and for general enquiries please email Int.Adv@reading.ac.uk , or phone +44 (0)118 378 8038 .
Please visit the International Students pages to discover the support available to our international students.
The Careers team helps students and graduates find work.
You can reach them by emailing careers@reading.ac.uk or calling +44 (0) 118 378 8359 .
Please visit the Careers website for further information about the services available.
If you have queries related to working at the university, please contact hr@reading.ac.uk .
Visit our Events page to see what's on at the University of Reading.
You can also email the Events team at events@reading.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 118 378 6718 .
If you have queries relating to visiting the university and Open Days, please visit the Open Days and visiting page .
Visit Venue Reading to explore hospitality at the University and hire our venues.
The Venue Reading team is available at info@venuereading.com or +44 (0) 118 378 5657 .
If you're a supplier, please send any invoice-related query to invoices@reading.ac.uk , or call Accounts Payable on +44 (0) 118 378 8104 .
If you're using the E-Marketplace system, you can check the status of your invoices by logging into your personal supplier account .
If you're a current or potential supplier, you can email the Procurement Team at procurement@reading.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 118 378 8305 .
Please visit the Information for suppliers page to find out more about our processes and terms and conditions.
Our Human Resources team are available at hr@reading.ac.uk or on +44 (0) 118 378 8751 , Monday to Friday, 9 am - 3 pm.
If you need more information, please visit the HR Contact Information page .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/current-students-home:
Find out more about student life
Stay up to date with the latest news, events and information specifically for you with the Me@Reading website .
Please note: Me@Reading can only be accessed by current University of Reading students.
If you are a prospective student and have applied to the University, please visit the page for current applicants .
Essentials is your guide to getting the most out of your time at the University of Reading.
You'll find lots of information on things like:
Visit the Essentials website
Staying organised has never been easier!
Our student app is available for all current students to download from the Google and iOS stores.
The app gives you:
Download the app now

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/atoz/a-z-academic:
This site may not work correctly on Internet Explorer.
We recommend switching to a different browser for a better experience.
We use cookies on reading.ac.uk to improve your experience, monitor site performance and tailor content to you.
Read our cookie policy to find out how to manage your cookie settings.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/uor-forms/crm/prospectus:
Please use the form below to request your copy of the prospectus.
It should take no more than a few minutes to complete and we will be in touch soon.
As part of our commitment to environment and sustainability, we ask that you only request a posted prospectus for the level of study you are most interested in.
The confirmation email we send to you will contain a link to access online versions of our prospectuses covering all levels of study.
If you require multiple copies of the same prospectus please email us directly with your requirements.
If you are working as a student representative for one of our contracted partners, please contact Global Recruitment (International) directly to discuss any prospectus requests for your office.
The personal information you supply on this form will be used to help us respond to your request, for quality assurance and for data analytics purposes.
Your personal data will not be sold to any organisation, and will not be shared with any organisations outside the University of Reading apart from those that help us to provide this service or unless required by law.
The information that has been provided in this form will be treated in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (2016), the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and all applicable Data Protection laws.
Please refer to the University of Reading Privacy Policy for more information.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/chat-to-our-students:
About the University of Reading

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/about-newsevents:
#Planet Partners How we support the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Main Menu
News from 2025
Contact the press team
Expert spokespeople
Media, demonstrations, and petitions on campus
Connecting Research Blog
Media Enquiries
Journalists can contact the press office at any time.
+44 (0)118 378 5757 (24 hours)
pressoffice@reading.ac.uk
There are no events to show at this time
News Archives
News from 2024
News from 2023
News from 2022
News from 2021
News archive 1998-2020

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/teaching-and-learning:
Study at the University of Reading
“Our approach is one which puts community at its heart.
We envisage a supportive community as a basis for challenging students to achieve their full potential, and for this potential to be realised in ways that make a positive social impact."
- Peter Miskell and Elizabeth McCrum, Pro-Vice-Chancellors (Education and Student Experience)
As a university, we have a straightforward purpose: to foster communities of learning in which staff and students work together to develop knowledge, ideas, and skills that serve the needs of wider society.
Excellence in teaching is central to such a purpose, and at the University of Reading this is reflected in our core educational priority areas:
We take it as self-evident that learning requires openness to new ideas and to different ways of thinking about and experiencing the world.
We aspire to create an environment that respects and supports the needs of individual learners from all backgrounds and in doing so enriches the wider collective student experience.
For us, a diverse and inclusive learning community is at the very core of what it means to be a university.
We strive for excellence in the quality of our teaching and the quality of our students’ work.
Learning opportunities, assessment and feedback are carefully designed to provide the scaffolding that students need to be challenged and achieve their full potential.
We support our students to get the maximum impact from their studies, to benefit from their learning in a way that advances their future professional careers.
Impactful learning also benefits wider society.
We work with employer organisations to address local skills gaps and equip graduates with the tools to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing our societies – sustainability, diversity and inequality.
We want to inspire innovative and creative approaches to teaching and learning by working in partnership with colleagues and with our student community.
Here are just some of our projects that are helping us to improve the student experience and evolve our approaches:
The University’s Portfolio Review supports the Excellence, Sustainability and Community principles of the University’s Strategic Plan, by making the following changes:
Current staff can find further information on the Staff Portal .
The University of Reading aims to create an environment that respects and supports the needs of individual learners from all backgrounds, and enriches the wider collective student experience.
We know that a diverse and inclusive learning community is at the very core of what it means to be a university, and that learning requires openness to new ideas and different ways of thinking about – and experiencing – the world.
Current staff can find more information on the Inclusive Teaching and Learning website.
The Curriculum Framework outlines a set of programme principles which underpin the curriculum and engender the range of attributes expected for University of Reading graduates.
These principles are used by programme teams in the design, delivery and enhancement of new and existing programmes and modules.
Education for sustainable development
Sustainability has become a cornerstone of our Strategic Plan and is one of the four principles informing our work.
As such, we are embedding environmental sustainability across both our curriculum and staff training programmes.
We are working toward the following goals:
Closing the awarding gap
The University of Reading’s target is to reduce the awarding gap between Black and minority ethnic students and white students to 5% in 2024/25.
We also aim to eliminate the awarding gap between students from advantaged and disadvantaged backgrounds by 2024/25.
Read more about these targets and our other commitments to underrepresented groups in our Access and Participation Plan.
Learning Capture
The University’s Learning Capture solution (using software called ‘YuJa’) enables and supports personal learning capture (e.g., screencasts).
It offers students opportunities to review their learning at their own pace, as a revision tool or to check session notes.
Partnership is at the heart of what we do, helping to improve the student experience, develop and inspire staff, and evolve our approaches to teaching and learning.
We support colleagues to work in partnership with their students, and to support students to act as participants, co-creators, evaluators and change agents.
Students have the opportunity to join student panels, be a Student Partner, and participate in focus groups to help shape their university experience, as well as a chance to work with staff on both education and research projects, such as our Partnerships in Learning and Teaching scheme or Reading Internship Scheme (RIS) projects.
At the University of Reading, we celebrate and value our staff; they are integral to the success of the University.
Our staff are enthusiastic, well-qualified in their fields and committed to providing the very best education for our students.
We are constantly developing our approaches to teaching and learning, creating relevant and engaging environments where our students can excel and our staff can flourish.
Learn more about our key people in Teaching and Learning .
The University has a large number of National Teaching Fellows , all of whom play an active role in teaching and learning leadership across the University.
Our University Teaching Fellowship is a prestigious award for individuals who have demonstrated individual excellence, and made a significant contribution to the development of teaching and learning at the University.
Find out more about our University Teaching Fellows .
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) is a system that assesses the quality of teaching in universities in England.
Following the release of the OfS TEF Guidance and our full TEF data set at the end of September 2022, we worked with the TEF Narrative Group and Expert Reading Panel to pull together our provider submission over the autumn term.
In 2023, the University of Reading was awarded the TEF Silver award overall , and silver for student experience and outcomes.
The awarding panel noted outstanding quality in these areas:
"This award is testament to the dedication of the highly professional and talented staff who teach, inspire and support our students throughout their learning experience here at Reading."
- Elizabeth McCrum, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Teaching & Learning)
Teaching & Learning information hub for current staff
Resources and information for colleagues, including key CQSD areas and links, funding and awards, latest information on current projects and key people in T&L.
Developing and enhancing T&L
Find out about our accredited framework for professional development and recognition, our T&L events, funding opportunities and awards and resources on the Curriculum Framework.
Policy and Quality Assurance
Search and discover our T&L policies, including information on new programme development.
The Degree Outcomes Statement sets out the profile of classifications for bachelor's degrees across the University over the past six years (2018/19 to 2023/24).
The statement also explains the following:
Read the Degree Outcomes Statement (PDF)
To find out more about teaching and learning at the University of Reading, please contact:
Email: cqsd-tandl@reading.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 118 378 7097
You can also visit the CQSD homepage for more information.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/accommodation:
Apply now
Live where the life is
When you choose University of Reading accommodation, you'll live at the heart of a supportive community.
We provide a safe, secure place to live, relax and socialise while you study.
Our hall rooms and flats are available to undergraduates and postgraduates.
As well as offering 40-week residency periods, we also offer longer contract options for some of our accommodation.
Find out more about applying for student accommodation if you have an offer to study at Reading.
Part year contracts are available from January 2025 onwards.
Visit our dedicated website for current students, Essentials, for information about returning to halls.
All you need to know about terms and conditions, our accommodation guarantee, support, and pre-arrival information.
We are committed to making student accommodation accessible for all students.
Find out about our adapted rooms.
There is a variety of privately rented accommodation in Reading.
Our Reading Students' Union can help find the right accommodation for you.
If you have a question and have already applied for a place at Reading, you can log into our application portal and contact us via our live chat .
You can also contact the Accommodation Office on 0118 200 5011 or email accommodationonline@reading.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/global:
Join a truly international community of around 23,000 students from over 160 countries.
The University of Reading is the ideal destination if you're looking to study in the UK and achieve your academic and career goals.
We aim to be a truly global institution with a vision to extend and enhance academic collaborations with universities and organisations worldwide.
Find out more about how you could become a part of this vision.
The University of Reading has study abroad partnerships with institutions around the world.
Find out more about our incoming and outgoing study abroad programmes.
We are an international institution: in addition to the three UK campuses, the University of Reading has a Malaysia campus and Henley Business School has a campus in South Africa.
In today's highly competitive graduate marketplace, you need diverse skills and experiences to set you apart from other graduates.
Find out how we will help you with this.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/business:
The University of Reading is among the top 30 UK universities in world rankings (ranked 26th out of 107 UK universities featured in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025, 42nd out of 119 in the Daily Mail University Guide 2025) and 98% of our research is rated as being of international standing (Research Excellence Framework, 2021).
As a result, the University is already a key partner for businesses of all sizes, from multinational corporations to growing, innovative SMEs.
Want to work with our students and graduates?
The Careers Centre are experts in matching our high calibre, highly employable students to your needs through internships, placements, job adverts and more.
Looking for world-class professional development?
The executive education programmes at the world-famous Henley Business School develop confident and professional leaders with the expertise to ensure success for themselves and their organisations.
Planning an event?
Campus Commerce provides outstanding amenities for your function at the University of Reading or Henley Business School, from meetings and conferences through to accommodation and wedding receptions.
Looking to work within an ambitious community of knowledge-based companies?
The Thames Valley Science Park offers cutting edge laboratories, modern flexible office space and fantastic support for forward-thinking dynamic businesses.
External businesses supply £100 millions of goods and services to the University of Reading every year.
Interested in joining them?
Our procurement team provides guidance to both current and potential suppliers.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/student-life/campus-and-facilities/uor-malaysia:
Discover our other campuses
The University of Reading Malaysia campus on EduCity@Iskandar offers a brand-new, architecturally stunning environment designed to provide students with everything they need to make the most of their time at university.
Its breathtaking design was shortlisted for a World Architecture Festival award in 2013.
Made up of two buildings linked by a central parkland area (the “Heartspace”), the campus is an integrated, self-contained site that combines flexible teaching, research, learning and social spaces.
Highlights include state-of-the-art laboratories, an outstanding Learning Resource Centre and four lecture theatres to enable experiential learning and group projects.
Other facilities on campus include:
Find out more about the extensive range of scholarships we offer.
We guarantee students the opportunity to study part of their course in the UK, making getting a UK degree more flexible, accessible and affordable than ever before.
UoRM provides students with a world-class education at approximately half the cost of international student fees in the UK.
University of Reading students from the UK are also given the chance to study at UoRM, enabling even greater international collaboration and enhancing the teaching and learning experience for all.
Our first UK student has already spent a term studying at UoRM and numbers will grow quickly as the campus becomes more established.
UoRM is situated in one of the most popular student destinations in the world.
Johor Bahru has a wonderfully diverse culture and is also the fastest developing city in Malaysia.
It is located in the rapidly growing development region of Iskandar Malaysia, in the state of Johor in the southern part of Peninsular Malaysia.
By 2025, the aim is for Iskandar to be an ultramodern ‘smart’ metropolis of three million people, offering green energy,vibrant neighbourhoods and first-class transportation systems.
UoRM is committed to playing a key role in this visionary project.
University of Reading Malaysia (UoRM) is offering students the “best of both worlds” – a world-class degree at an affordable price, delivered at a location that is convenient to them.
The launch of UoRM demonstrates of how far we’ve come in the last 150 years and where we want to go in the future.
Our courses match the high standards set by their UK equivalents and involve some of our strongest academic areas – business, finance, psychology, law, real estate, surveying and pharmacy.
Students are taught by leading international academic staff and have the same top-quality learning experience as in the UK.
We have high academic standards and expectations, and offer an up-to-date and innovative approach to teaching, designed to get the best results and ensure that our graduates excel in their chosen careers.
As a research-led university, we base our teaching on the most up-to-date research evidence, and our academic staff are experts in their fields.
We offer students world-class learning resources and one-to-one teaching and support.
Research-led learning is embedded in each programme across all levels.
All UoRM students will be required to undertake a placement as part of their programme.
International experience is encouraged to increase global employability and engender greater understanding of different cultures.
The University of Reading is globally recognised for the quality of its research.
According to the Research Excellence Framework 2014, 98 per cent of University of Reading research is internationally recognised, 78 per cent is classed as internationally excellent and 27 per cent is deemed world leading.
UoRM provides the University with a base to project our world-class research and teaching strength to Malaysia and Asia through the events and short courses we are able to hold here – in climate change and meteorology; multilingualism; food and nutrition; agriculture and health research.
It provides an opportunity for further research and partnerships that could result in a lasting impact on society.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/visiting-and-open-days/opendays:
Other ways to visit the University
Open Days offer you the chance to get a feeling for what life as a student at the University of Reading is really like.
Explore your subject of interest by attending talks, sessions, and tours of facilities.
You can also chat to academics and current students.
Experience campus life by joining tours of accommodation and Reading Students’ Union, and attend talks on a range of topics from Study Abroad to Sport and Active Wellbeing.
We can't wait to show you around!
I chose Reading as I had a warm welcome on the Open Day and had a good feel for the campus, facilities and my course.
I was drawn to the University's beautiful green spaces, stunning woods and lakes, and countless places to eat and study.
We'll be hosting our next taster days in June, July and August.
Immerse yourself in the subject you want to study by attending lectures and practical sessions, and meet staff and students from your department of interest.
Learn more about our taster days and book now .
Can’t make it to a campus tour?
You’re welcome to explore our campus at your own pace, whenever it suits you.
For more information, please visit our self-guided tour webpage .
Our Master's Coffee Morning is a great opportunity to hear about master's life at the University of Reading.
Find out more on our postgraduate events page .
View our dedicated postgraduate events .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/academic-governance-services/the-universitys-charitable-status:
The University of Reading is an independent corporation with charitable status established by Royal Charter granted in 1926.
Its objects, powers and framework of governance are defined in the Charter.
The Privy Council approved a revised version of the University Charter in 2015.
The University is an exempt charity (reference X 8145) under the Charities Act 2011 and as such is a charity within the meaning of Para 1 of Schedule 6 to the Finance Act 2010.
It is not required to be registered with the Charity Commission but is however subject to the Charity Commission's regulatory powers which are monitored by the Office for Students.
The Council is the governing body of the University and in exercising its role and powers undertakes to meet the obligations placed upon the University by the founding Charter.
The Council has responsibility for the conduct of all of the affairs of the University and for the achievement of its mission of educating talented people well, conducting outstanding research, and promoting the responsible application of new knowledge.
The Council sets the University's strategic direction, ensures compliance with statutory requirements and approves constitutional changes.
Full name:
The University of Reading
Preferred name:
University of Reading
Royal Charter:
RC000665
Address:
Whiteknights
Reading
RG6 6UR
The University Calendar documents the University's Charter and Ordinances (and Statutes when appropriate) for the past seven years.
Members of the Council and Trusteeships
Financial Statements
Ways of giving to the University

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/accessibility:
The University of Reading is committed to providing an inclusive environment, and to ensuring digital accessibility for as many users as possible.
Digital accessibility is about removing and reducing barriers to enable users to engage with our digital services and content.
Accordingly, we are committed to making our websites and mobile applications accessible in accordance with The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 No.952, and specifically WCAG 2.2 AA standards.
This accessibility statement covers our main website platform www.reading.ac.uk (and in due course will cover all our websites and mobile applications).
You may also find specific statements on individual pages or other University of Reading websites, where more detail is helpful.
They will each link back to this page and should be read in conjunction with this general accessibility statement.
To adapt our website content and functionality to your needs and preferences you can:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability (My Computer My Way) .
This website is operated by the University of Reading.
We know that some parts of this website aren't yet fully accessible.
For example:
Our website includes third party content and functionality.
Depending on the University's relationship with the third party, we cannot always guarantee its accessibility.
Where we choose to feature third party content or functionality on our website, we are responsible for taking steps to make sure that it meets accessibility standards.
However, where we are legally required to feature third party content or functionality we cannot reasonably accept responsibility for ensuring it meets accessibility standards.
And where the University links to third party websites that may offer benefits to the University's users, we are not responsible for the accessibility of these or any other websites that the University doesn't manage.
However, where it is within our control, we will make every reasonable effort to work towards meeting accessibility requirements.
Certain third-party tools, content and/or functionality are integrated/featured on our website, and these have their own accessibility statements.
You may also access third-party accessibility statements via the free searchBOX Finder service.
If you have any problems accessing our website, or related tools and functionality, please contact the IT Service Desk:
If you need content that is featured on our website in a different format, and you are having problems accessing the necessary format(s) (such as tagged PDFs, large print, easy read or audio recording), please contact the Web Accessibility Team at:
If you cannot view the maps on our Visit us page, call or email us for directions.
You can find the contact details on our Contact us page.
If you find any problems that aren't listed in this statement, or think we're not meeting the requirements of the accessibility regulations, please contact:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you're not happy with how we respond to your enquiry, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service(EASS) .
The University of Reading is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed on this page.
We are working to achieve and maintain the AA standards of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 .
However, we are aware that some parts of our website are not fully accessible currently.
The full list of known issues can be found on our digital accessibility website .
Our site contains documents dating back several years.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don't meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be marked up so they're accessible to a screen reader.
Work is ongoing to fix PDF documents that are essential to providing our services.
These will be converted to accessible pages, or an accessible alternative will be made available on request.
Some of our content across the site will need to remain in PDF format where a durable format is needed (for legal reasons or otherwise).
We are currently auditing our website and, if relevant, will list here any areas that we believe it would be a disproportionate burden to make fully accessible.
There's no way to skip the repeated content in the page header on some of our webpages (for example, a 'skip to main content' option).
It's not always possible to change the device orientation from horizontal to vertical without making it more difficult to view the content.
It's not possible for users to change text size without some of the content overlapping in some of the webpages.
Some of our interactive forms are difficult to navigate using a keyboard.
For example, because some form controls are missing a 'label' tag.
Our forms are built and hosted through third party software and 'skinned' to look like our website.
We've assessed the cost of fixing the issues with navigation and accessing information, and with interactive tools and transactions, and believe that doing so now would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will make another assessment when the relevant supplier contracts are up for renewal.
We have assessed the cost of creating audio described versions of videos and believe that doing so would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will work with sector colleagues to see how practice evolves in the sector.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they're not essential to providing our services.
The University will work to achieve and maintain WCAG 2.2 AA standards, but it is not always possible for all our content to be accessible.
Where content doesn't appear to be fully accessible, please contact the web accessibility team at WebAccessibilityTeam@reading.ac.uk to request an alternative format.
We do not add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Our historical library collections are exempt from the accessibility regulations.
Online maps and mapping services are exempt as long as essential information is provided in an accessible digital manner for maps intended for navigational use.
News, blogs and other content: Our website contains press releases, blog posts and other content published prior to the accessibility regulation coming into force.
These are exempt from the accessibility regulations.
We are continually monitoring our website for accessibility.
Staff responsible for content on the website are required to undertake training in producing more accessible content and improving content already on the site.
In addition, we are working with our suppliers to fix issues relevant to the accessibility of content and systems, and we are including accessibility requirements in our procurement processes.
We have introduced an accessibility issues ticketing system, where raised issues are prioritised and scheduled for development and deployment.
Please view our Accessibility Roadmap .
If you would like more detailed information on the steps we are taking to fix a particular issue, please contact WebAccessibilityTeam@reading.ac.uk .
We are currently auditing our website platforms.
We regularly use a combination of automated and manual testing to test a sample of pages.
This statement was prepared on 26 September 2019.
It was last updated on 11 August 2025.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/privacy:
This Privacy Notice explains the nature of the personal information that the University collects through our websites, when you provide your details to us at events or via online enquiry forms, from publically available sources, or via third parties that have passed us you contact details as you have expressed an interest in hearing from us.
It also explains how your data is used and informs you of your rights under data protection laws.
The University and the Henley Business School are Data Controller (We or Us) in respect of the information that We process about you.
Our contact details are The University of Reading University of Reading, Whiteknights, PO Box 217, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 6AH, United Kingdom.
Tel: +44 (0) 118 987 5123.
Your privacy is important to Us, so if there is anything in this privacy notice that is unclear or you do not understand, please contact Our Data Protection Officer at: imps@reading.ac.uk .
We operate a number of different websites and pages that support and enhance engagement with Us and our services, both for the benefit of students and other visitors.
Some of those websites or webpages may be specific to a certain department, subsidiary or specific activities conducted across Our campuses- and may have additional information about how they collect and use personal data for their specific purposes.
We encourage you to read those carefully in addition to this more general notice.
We ask you for a range of personal information when you complete our online forms or applications for specific purposes: We collect personal data in order to:
We will collect information about you if you place an order with Us for a product or service, such as a prospectus, booking a place at a conference or event, subscribing to a newsletter or when you make an enquiry.
We may receive contact details from third parties or agencies working for us where you have indicated that you would like to hear from Us.
We may also collect personal data from publicly available sources such as Companies House, LinkedIn or your Organisational websites.
Where We do this We will notify you of the source of your personal data when We contact you wherever possible.
We collect personal information about website (s) usage through cookies (see the section on Cookies, Google Analytics and third party cookies below) and server logs, which track the IP addresses of users visiting our site and the pages they visit.
Information collected via the University's server logs includes users' IP addresses and the web pages visited; this will be used to manage the web system and troubleshoot problems.
The University also uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc.
("Google") to understand how visitors engage with our website and so We can improve it.
See the section on Google Analytics below.
Cookies are text files placed on your computer to help us analyse how users use our site.
A cookie is a small data file able to track the online movements of an individual.
This information could potentially be used to build an online profile of individuals and uniquely locate them in the world.
We use different types of cookies that are relevant to our products.
Some are essential or necessary for the functioning or security of our websites, some analytics cookies are used to help Us to measure the performance of our websites and some are used by Us and third parties to deliver targeted advertising and marketing across other sites that you visit or interact with.
An example of these cookies are those that allocate your 'session ID'.
This allows our server to recognise your computer and 'remember' what you've done on the site.
The benefits of this are:
You only need to log in once if you're navigating secure areas of the site
You are able to use interactive elements of the site, such as forms
Our server can distinguish between your computer and other users, so you can see the information that you have requested.
An example of these cookies is Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to help us to understand how you make use of our content and work out how we can make things better.
These cookies follow your progress through our website, collecting data on where you have come from, which pages you visit, and how long you spend on the site.
This data is then stored by Google in order to create reports.
These cookies do not store your personal data.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website, including your IP address, may be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
Google may use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for us and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.
Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.
The Google website contains further information about Analytics and a copy of Google's privacy policy pages.
Other parts of the University's website also store cookies on your computer to track user traffic patterns.
We do this to see how the website is used, to determine page popularity, to help security and for general statistical purposes.
Some of this information may be held on servers in locations outside the EEA.
Where personally identifying information is involved, data will only be held in locations that are deemed to have adequate protections for personal data.
Some cookies are dropped by parties external to the University, such as social media platforms.
These enable the sharing of content via these channels and can also be used to track your interactions with sites visited and use this information to display targeted advertising and marketing to you.
For further information on cookies, including how you can see what cookies have been set and control cookies within your browser visit www.allaboutcookies.org or www.aboutcookies.org.
If you prefer not to receive cookies while browsing our website, you can set your browser to refuse cookies that are stored on your computer; the above websites tell you how to do this.
You do not need to have cookies turned on to use or navigate through most parts of our website, although some functionality may be lost.
ROUTEID
.cms1
Cookiebar
CookieMessageShown
Test_cookie
ASPSESSIONID
ASP.NET_SessionID
ASP.NET cookie
Session ID
These cookies automatically set and help perform essential functions and some interactive features of the University website such as online forms or to remember your login.
It is only put on your computer when you use one of these features.
PHPSESSID
_hjClosedSurveyInvites
_hjDonePolls
_hjMinimizedPolls
_hjDoneTestersWidgets
_hjMinimizedTestersWidgets
_hjIncludedInSample
SnapABugVisit
SnapABugHistory
_ga
_gid
_dc_gtm_ (prefix)
_gcl_au
_gat
SC_ANALYTICS_GLOBAL_COOKIE
SC_ANALYTICS_GLOBAL_SESSION_COOKIE
Siteimproveses (third party)
_cfduid (third party)
_Utma to _utmz
Wordpress
_author
_author_email
Giosg_chat_id_{$COMPANY_ID}
Giosg_gid_{$COMPANY_ID}
Giosg_gsessid_{$COMPANY_ID}
_hjShownFeedbackMessage
_hjid
We use Hotjar, an analytics and feedback tool, to improve the usability of our site.
Hotjar sets persistent cookies (up to 365 days) for analytics purposes and to display the correct content to our visitors.
You can read about what cookies are stored by visiting Hotjar's website .
Hotjar also records visitor information including mouse clicks and movements, scrolling activity and user input on our website (for example on the search box) - this information is anonymous.
Recordings are automatically deleted after 365 days.
You can opt-out of Hotjar collecting your information at any time by following these instructions .
_fpb, datr, lu, s, locale, c_user, xs
Anj
LinkedIn
UserMatchHistory
Bcookie
Lang
Lidc
Visit
_chartbeat2
JSESSIONID
sl
li_at
BizoID
Dotmailer
DmSessionID
recordID
Snapchat
Personalization_id
K, js, external referrer
Youtube
GetSocial
_smb_api_session
LSW_WEB
We know that a lot of visitors to our website use social networking tools, so we have tried to make it easy for you to share our content using these services.
We use a button provided by ShareThis to enable this functionality and this button places its own cookies on your machine.
We also pull through content from social networks into our own pages, such as embedded Twitter feeds.
The social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter, may themselves also put cookies on your machine.
We have little control over these 'third party' cookies, so we suggest that you check the respective privacy policies for these external services to help you understand what data these organisations hold about you and what they do with it.
For instance, the Facebook Data Use Policy and the Twitter privacy policy give further information about those services.
The following table gives details of some of the third party cookies that can be used and gives links to the appropriate privacy policies for them.
Where you provide personal information in order for us to contact you or provide you with optional information, such as subscribing to an electronic newsletter, joining an email mailing list, or subscribing to SMS updates we will be processing your personal data on the basis of your consent.
Where you provide personal information for the purposes of booking or applying for a course, booking onto an event, or making a purchase We will be processing your data for the purposes of administering a contract with you and in order to deliver those services to you.
Where We use your corporate or business contact details to contact you with information We think may be of interest to you We will be processing your data on the basis of legitimate interests, for the performance of our public tasks, or with your consent.
When We use your personal postal mail address or contact telephone number (s) to contact you with information We will be processing your data on the basis of legitimate interests, for the performance of our public tasks, or with your consent.
Where you provide Us with special category (sensitive data) including information on your ethnicity, disability or medical conditions, for example, for the purposes of arranging accessibility or dietary needs, We will be processing your data on the basis of your consent, or for the purposes of equal opportunities monitoring or the performance of statutory duties under the equality act.
Where We use your information to manage our websites and troubleshoot any problems, or to track the effectiveness of our websites and monitor how users interact with them this will be on the basis of our legitimate interests.
Where We are required by law We will process your data on the basis of a legal obligation.
The University will not sell, license or trade your personal information without your consent.
We will not share your personal information with others unless they are acting under our instructions or We are required to do so by law.
We will retain your data for as long as is necessary to fulfil the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting or reporting requirements.
Where you have requested to be added to marketing or mailing lists your details will be retained until you choose to unsubscribe to those communications.
We may contact you from time to time to check that you are still happy to receive those communications.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, We consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which We process your personal data and whether We can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.
In some circumstances We may anonymise your personal data (so that it can no longer be associated with you) for research or statistical purposes in which case We may use this information indefinitely without further notice to you.
Your personal information is stored securely within the University and our staff are trained about the secure handling of personal information.
We may also use third party providers to deliver our services, such as externally hosted software or cloud providers.
Were we do this, We have measures and terms in place with those providers to ensure that they also protect your data.
Under data protection law you have the right to:
Please see the ICO website for further information on these rights .
You will not have to pay a fee to access your personal data (or to exercise any of the other rights).
However, We may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive.
Alternatively, We may refuse to comply with your request in these circumstances.
More information on making a request under your rights .
If you would like to exercise your rights, or have any concerns regarding how We have handled your personal information please contact our Data Protection Office at imps@reading.ac.uk .
Some rights are dependent on the lawful basis for processing your information.
If We have legitimate grounds to not carry out your wishes, these will be explained to you in response to your request.
You also have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office.
If there is anything in this notice that you are unclear about, please contact our Data Protection Officer, on the contact details below, who shall be happy to answer any queries you may have concerning this privacy notice or the way in which We process your personal data.
By mail: Information Management and Policy Services, The University of Reading, Whiteknights, PO Box 217, Reading RG6 6AH
By email: imps@reading.ac.uk
By phone: 0118 378 8981
Complaints can be referred to the Information Commissioners Office, the independent body who oversee Data Protection compliance in the UK.
Email: casework@ico.gsi.gov.uk
We keep our privacy notice under regular review to ensure best practice and compliance with the law.
This privacy notice was last updated on 10/05/2019.
We may change this privacy notice from time to time.
If We make significant changes in the way we treat your personal information We will make this clear on https://www.reading.ac.uk/ and may also inform you directly.
If you have any questions about this notice, our University Data Protection Officer can be contacted at:
IMPS
PO Box 217
RG6 6AH UK.
Telephone: 0118 378 8981.
Email: imps@reading.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/finance/information-for-students/payment-of-fees:
Here are the payment options for fees.
If you need more help, visit our FAQ page .
Pay online through the Student payment portal
For UK-based students: Pay without bank fees using Pay by Bank Payments via Sofort or traditional bank transfer.
Make a Payment using Convera
If you have any further queries about Convera contact them directly or use their online payment tracking tool .
International Student Fees can be paid using Convera.
Offers various payment options, competitive exchange rates, and online tracking tools, without bank fees, or worry of funds arriving short to the University.
Benefits for you:
Convera Video guide (English) .
Guides also available in Arabic , Cantonese , French , French Canadian , Hindi , Indonesian , Japanese , Korean , Mandarin, Nigerian and Spanish .
Make Payment using Convera
TransferMate offers various payment options, competitive exchange rates, and online tracking tools, without bank fees, or worry of funds arriving short to the University.
TransferMate Video guide (English) .
Guides also available in English , Mandarin , Spanish and Portugese .
Make Payment using TransferMate
If you have any further queries about TransferMate please contact them directly by emailing edu@transfermate.com
PLEASE NOTE
The University's bankers, in common with other UK banks, are subject to a series of regulations surrounding payments that originate, directly or indirectly, from a number of countries which are subject to economic sanctions.
These countries are:
Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar (Burma), Russia, North or South Sudan, and Syria.
Students must not make payments to the University of Reading or Henley Business School originating from these countries without the University's prior approval.
You must ensure that any payments from sponsors to the University are only for amounts due to the University.
Any monies due to you from the sponsor must be made directly to you.
We do not accept payment via any method not listed on this webpage
Should you be in any doubt about whether a payment falls into this category, or wish to discuss this further, please contact receipts@reading.ac.uk for further information.
Payment FAQs
Tuition Fee Schedule

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/sitemap:
University of Reading Cookie Policy

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/terms-of-use:
Terms of use
Please read these terms and conditions ( Terms ) as they will govern your use of the website www.reading.ac.uk and its subdomains (collectively the Websites ).
These Terms will also apply to your use of any of the University of Reading’s social media channels, including, but not limited to, the following: www.facebook.com/theuniversityofreading , www.twitter.com/uniofreading , www.youtube.com/uniofreading and www.linkedin.com/company/university-of-reading ( Social Media Channels ).
By using the Websites and any of our Social Media Channels, you are indicating your agreement to be bound by these Terms, and by any other terms that are stated to govern your use of the Websites and/or Social Media Channels, such as our Privacy Policy and Cookies Information .
The Websites and the Social Media Channels belong to The University of Reading an independent corporation established by Royal Charter in England and Wales with number RC000665 of Whiteknights House, PO Box 217, Whiteknights, Reading, RG6 6AH, UK (the University , we , us or our ), and they are made available to you subject to your acceptance of the following Terms.
If you do not accept these Terms, you should not use the Websites or the Social Media Channels.
You acknowledge that you do not acquire any ownership rights by printing or downloading copyright material for personal, non-commercial use.
Last updated: 04 August 2015
View disclaimer information for our print prospectuses .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing/register-your-interest:
You have successfully logged in and will be automatically redirected to the portal.
If you are not, please click here to access the portal .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing/available-courses:
The following courses are now available in Clearing.
If you have your final results you can apply now by calling +44 (0) 118 402 0900 or by completing our online application form .
You can filter courses by entry requirements but this will only show courses that match the exact grades selected.
To see more options, try selecting multiple filters, which are equal to or lower than your grades.
Please be aware courses may require specific subjects and qualifications for entry.
Check the course details to ensure you are eligible to apply.
* Indicates required field
Please enter your search terms and select the category you would like to search by.
Please select the category you would like to search by.
Please enter your search terms
A level offer must be up to 7 characters, only letters and "/"
BTEC offer must be up to 3 letters only
IB offer must be up to 2 digits
Max 250 characters allowed

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply-in-clearing:
Applying for university through Clearing can seem complicated.
To help you, we’ve split our Clearing application guidance into sections, so you can see what to expect as you move through the process.
Most UK applicants get their results on 14 August 2025 and can apply through Clearing from this date .
If you’re an international applicant , we may also need evidence of satisfactory English language proficiency, such as via an IELTS (Academic) test.
You need to have this evidence to apply via Clearing.
Please view our list of acceptable English language tests .
Find out what to do before you apply, including setting up a UCAS account, doing your research, and making sure you’re in Clearing.
Discover what to expect when you contact the University to make a Clearing application and hopefully receive an offer from us.
Find out how to accept your offer – the process differs depending on when you applied.
Once you’ve accepted an offer, you can apply for accommodation, confirm your student finance, and contact our Disability Advisory Service if you need to.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing/international-applicants:
Clearing works the same no matter where you're based or what qualifications you hold.
However, international applicants have unique considerations that UK-based applicants don't, which is why we've put together this helpful guide just for you.
If you're based outside the UK, we understand it’s likely you haven’t had the chance to visit the University before applying.
However, you can explore our Virtual Experience Hub to get a feel for what life as a student at the University of Reading is like.
If you live in Hong Kong, you can meet our University representatives at recruitment fairs in July.
They’ll be able to tell you more about the University, discuss your qualifications for various courses, and guide you through the application process.
Additionally, our Global Student Recruitment team offers one-to-one online meetings for prospective students to discuss their options.
Book your one-to-one meeting here .
While they can’t make offers, they’ll provide valuable insight into available courses and the application process.
We expect to receive a high volume of applications when Clearing reopens on 14th August.
Please bear with us if we take a little longer than usual to process your application.
Please note you may need to provide evidence of satisfactory English language proficiency, (such as through an IELTS (Academic) test) to apply via Clearing.
Be sure to check our list of acceptable English language tests to ensure you meet the requirements.
If you haven’t previously considered applying to university in the UK, you might not have a UCAS account.
Although you’ll apply directly to us for your course, you must accept your offer on the UCAS website.
It’s essential to set up an account if you haven’t already done so.
Please note that UCAS verification can take up to 48 hours, so the sooner you set up your account, the better.
For more details on how to apply, visit our How to apply page.
The process is the same regardless of where you’re applying from.
We regularly receive applications from students with qualifications from around the world, so there’s no need to worry if your qualifications are from outside the UK.
Our online application form is designed to accommodate a wide range of international qualifications.
If you have trouble finding your qualification type, simply select ‘Other’ and provide as much detail as possible in the text box.
Please also upload copies of your qualification transcripts, including both academic and English language qualifications where necessary.
If your qualifications aren’t equivalent to UK Level 3 (A levels), you may want to consider our International Foundation Programme or a degree with an integrated foundation year.
You can apply for any degree with an integrated foundation year that is still open for Clearing applications using the Clearing application form.
For the one-year International Foundation Programme (IFP), you can apply directly through our IFP online application service .
There’s no need to use Clearing for this programme.
To learn more about the different International Foundation options at Reading, visit our International Study and Language Institute (ISLI) website.
If you'd like to work with a recruitment agent, who will assist with your application and guide you through the process, you can do so.
We work closely with a number of agents to ensure they have the most up-to-date information on our programmes, application processes, and other key details.
Using an agent won’t affect your chances of securing a place at the University of Reading, and you may find their support helpful.
To learn more about how we work with agents, please visit our in-country representatives page.
Most international students will need a student visa to study in the UK.
While Clearing applicants typically have enough time to secure their visa before enrolment, we strongly encourage you to act quickly and submit any required documents as soon as possible — especially if you're applying later in August or September.
Once you’ve accepted your Clearing offer and hold an unconditional offer, we’ll issue you a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) document.
You’ll need this to apply for your student visa.
To process this, we’ll need a scan or copy of the photo page of your passport, so please send it to us as soon as possible.
For convenience, we recommend uploading it along with your academic and English language qualification transcripts when you submit your initial Clearing application.
If you're applying very late, you may need to use the expedited visa service through UKVI, which may involve an additional cost.
For more details, visit our Visa and immigration page .
International students are more likely to need assistance securing accommodation, and we offer a range of options at the University of Reading for you to explore.
If you apply and accept your place during early Clearing (5 July to 17:00 on 5 August), you’ll be able to apply for accommodation early and are guaranteed a room in our halls.
For applications made from 14 August onwards, we have accommodation set aside specifically for Clearing students, with options at various price points and contract lengths.
We re able to guarantee you a room provided you meet the following conditions:
For more details, please visit our Accommodation page .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-accommodation:
University accommodation provides a safe and secure place for you to live, study and socialise as part of a supportive community.
We are able to guarantee accommodation to students who apply via Clearing provided you meet the following conditions:
What accommodation options we have available will depend on when you apply.
Please note: at present, all of our accessible rooms have been allocated.
Contact accommodationonline@reading.ac.uk for more information.
See our dedicated information on how to apply for your place in halls .
Please note that you cannot apply for accommodation until the University of Reading becomes your firm choice.
We've reserved a variety of single occupancy rooms within University halls and our chosen partner halls specifically for Clearing applicants.
Room types include Meal Plan halls with shared bathrooms and premium en-suite self-catered rooms, suitable for a variety of budgets.
Not all students want or need to move to attend university.
It’s becoming more common for students to live at home and travel to campus.
We want our commuting students to feel just as much a part of our community as those who live on campus.
The University of Reading can be a great option due to our:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study:
Select a course
Discover a wide range of undergraduate courses at Reading, register for an Open day, or chat to current undergraduates about life on campus.
If you’d like to study an undergraduate degree but don’t have the typical entry qualifications, we offer a range of science, arts and humanities foundation programmes.
Find out more about our integrated master's degrees for undergraduate students.
Typically a four-year course, you may also have the option to do a placement year.
Explore our taught master’s programmes, meet with academics at a master’s event, or learn about our postgraduate scholarships.
Find a PhD project and explore our excellent research facilities.
Learn about the PhD funding available across all subject areas.
Develop your career, learn a new language or indulge your passion for a particular subject through our further learning opportunities.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/student-life:
Find a course

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/visiting-and-open-days:
Join our student ambassadors for a tour of our Whiteknights campus.
Learn more about study and life at the University of Reading and see if it is the right place for you.
More information on campus tours .
Our webinars, virtual taster sessions and online courses give you an insight into studying at university.
Visit our virtual events page to find out more.
If you secure an offer through Clearing, you’ll have the opportunity to visit our campus on Friday 15 August or Saturday 16 August 2025 .
You’ll be able to take a tour of campus, find out about your accommodation options, and meet staff and students.
We’ll try to connect you with someone from your subject so you can ask any questions about studying with us.
We can also put you in touch with our various support services.
We’ll email you on results day with information on how to book onto this event.
If you have applied to the University of Reading and received an offer for a non-interview undergraduate course, you will be invited to attend an Offer Holder Day.
Undergraduate Offer Holder Days are subject-specific and are held in February and March.
Some interviewing subjects may also host Offer Holder Days and you will be contacted if you are eligible.
Find out more about Undergraduate Offer Holder Days .
Explore our campuses, chat to staff and students, and see if Reading is the right university for you.
Visit our Open Days page to find out more.
We host a wide range of postgraduate events throughout the year, including visit afternoons and subject-specific activities.
Visit our postgraduate events page to find out more.
Discover our subject–specific activities including curriculum-related master classes and degree experience taster days.
We host a whole calendar of events and activities both at the University and as part of our outreach programme.
Visit our activities for schools page to find out more .
We regularly visit cities throughout the world to take part in exhibitions, meet with partner institutions, and give talks on studying at the University.
Visit our meet us in your country page to find out more.
If you come to see the University, make sure you also check out the local area.
Reading is a vibrant and diverse community with a bustling town centre.
Learn more about Reading town centre .
The University is well connected by rail and road, and our two main campuses are very close to Reading town centre.
Visit our visiting and travel information page to find out more.
After visiting several Open Days, Reading was the only place I could really see myself living and studying.
The campus has a really friendly atmosphere and its location is ideal.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/international-and-eu:
Join an international community of more than 4,500 international students from over 160 countries
At the University of Reading, you'll study on an award-winning campus steeped in over 150 years of history.
Today, we are ranked among the world's top 200 universities (QS World University Rankings 2026) , and we have a world-class reputation for the quality of our teaching, research and links to business.
Reading is also highly ranked among UK universities (ranked joint 26th out of 107 UK universities featured in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025 and 36th out of 130 in the latest Complete University Guide 2026 .)
We accept a wide range of A level-equivalent academic qualifications, depending on your course and level of study.
If you do not have qualifications that are equivalent to British A levels, you may need to take a foundation course.
We offer many options for funding your degree through scholarships, bursaries and discounts.
Explore our available scholarships .
Read our fees information for international students looking to undertake either an undergraduate or postgraduate course.
We offer quality accommodation in our halls of residence, including rooms of all types at a range of prices.
Find out more about our accommodation .
Our webinars for international students cover topics like UCAS and applying, visas and immigration, and accommodation and  student support.
We offer international students the opportunity to book a virtual one-to-one with a regional specialist.
Follow our global social media pages to stay up to date with all the latest news and information for international students.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research/themes:
Our research is divided into four broad themes: Agriculture, Food & Health; Environment; Heritage & Creativity; and Prosperity & Resilience.
The themes are open-ended and overlapping, crossing traditional boundaries and allowing us to nurture innovation and deliver impactful and curiosity-driven research.
Under these themes sit our 31 research divisions.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research/impact:
Our impact
Reading research has global impact.
Our research aims to solve some of the biggest problems we face in the twenty-first century.
It shapes and influences culture, business, policy, health and the environment.
Explore how our research is changing the world through these stories and achievements.
A round-up of some of the most talked about journal articles, books and news stories by authors from the University of Reading in 2023.
A simple infographic showing average global temperature rise since the preindustrial era created by Professor Ed Hawkins is now globally famous, starting the everyday climate change conversations that will lead to solutions.
The first new drug for childhood epilepsy reached patients in 2019 following a decade’s research by University of Reading pharmacists and GW Pharmaceuticals.
The pollinating insects that we rely on for food crops have a more secure future thanks to the research and UN policy work of a Reading bee expert.
Research by Reading meteorologists has improved our understanding of the climate impact of greenhouse gas emissions, advancing the design and use of reliable metrics upon which global climate policies are based and monitored.
Professor Roberta Gilchrist’s research on Glastonbury Abbey is transforming our understanding of this sacred heritage site by analysing and interpreting an unpublished archive of archaeological excavations.
An approach developed at Reading is being used by international peacekeeping organisations to facilitate the protection and safeguarding of children in conflict and crisis zones.
By encouraging recognition and discussion of the UK’s first female MP to take her seat, Reading researchers are challenging outdated narratives about the role, power and legacy of women in British politics.
By transforming the approach to digital font design for ‘non-Latin’ scripts, Reading Typography researchers are improving the reading experience of millions and promoting understanding of the cultural richness of world scripts.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research/innovation-partnerships:
Reading research is part of a worldwide network.
We actively seek opportunities to use and share our research and resources to boost innovation in industry and the public sector.
We have particular innovation strengths in the built environment, food and nutrition, agriculture, climate, health, social science and computational sciences.
Our researchers have partnerships at local, national and global levels with academia, business, research organisations and government.
Knowledge Transfer Centre - seeks opportunities for businesses to access to University of Reading research and resources in order to boost innovation in industry.
Thames Valley Science Park - provides support and specialist facilities to start-ups and larger companies in the Thames Valley among Europe's largest group of high-tech businesses.
Find out more about how we work with business .
Our Innovation Centres
Agrimetrics - advances development and adoption of new technologies in the agri-food sector, and provides expertise in areas such as data science and bioinformatics in crops, livestock, food and sustainability.
EIT Food - we are a leading partner of this 50-member EU-funded knowledge innovation community (KIC) aiming to transform the way we produce, distribute and consume food in Europe.
Institute for Environmental Analytics - develops the technologies and skills needed to translate environmental research into commercially relevant solutions to climate change.
Agriculture policy decisions, including a replacement for the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy, are being informed by an annual survey of financial data from 1,750 farms across England, collected by a consortium of universities including Reading.
The annual Farm Business Survey (FBS) is the main piece of government research in evaluating all aspects of the economics of agriculture and horticulture in England.
The FBS covers all types and sizes of farm and horticultural businesses.
It is the most representative and independent survey of farm incomes of its kind.
Its results inform farmers and growers, the agricultural and horticultural industries, government, the EU and the general public about the economic state of farmers’ and growers’ businesses and helps to inform policy decisions.
Financial data are collected from 1,750 farms across England.
A team from the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development at the University of Reading has the largest share, covering central and southern England.
Each university produces a detailed set of management accounts for each business that participates in the FBS and benchmark these businesses against similar farms to their own.
As well as providing annual information of farm incomes, in the last three years Defra have used data from the FBS to help create a new Agricultural policy to replace the Common Agricultural Policy.
The Farm Business Survey is a consortium of six University Research Centres that carries out the Survey in England, collecting rural business research data.
It is led by the University of Nottingham and also includes the Universities of Reading, Cambridge and Newcastle, and the Colleges of Askham Bryan and Duchy.
Through a 40-year partnership with The European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) we are advancing understanding of weather and climate, training the next generation of climate scientists and making a real-world impact on the humanitarian aid response to extreme weather events.
The University is advancing innovations in weather, climate, earth observation and data assimilation science through a diverse range of research programmes, knowledge exchange activities and external partnerships.
Working together for over 40 years, the University’s partnership with ECMWF is one of our most valued.
In 2019, 35 live joint projects including large European Union projects have enabled the latest Reading research to support ECMWF’s work as the world-leading centre for medium-range weather forecasting (forecasts of weather three to ten days ahead).
A long-established element of the partnership is in the education and training of the next generation of climate scientists.
For example, ECMWF and the University co-supervise PhD students as part of the SCENARIO NERC Doctoral Training Partnership .
Also, ECMWF’s atmospheric model and data assimilation system known as the Integrated Forecasting System (IFS) is made available to University of Reading Masters-level students through the OpenIFS programme to support research and teaching.
In 2015 the University established the £13m Institute for Environmental Analytics (IEA) to develop the technologies and skills needed to translate cutting-edge environmental research and deliver commercially relevant solutions with business.
IEA has established a pipeline of pre-commercial projects, with The Copernicus Climate Change Service operated by ECMWF, developing data analytics tools with end users in a range of markets and stimulate commercial innovation.
Our research also supports reanalysis activities at ECMWF.
Reanalysis focuses on the best possible representation of the atmosphere and ocean over the course of past decades.
For example, at the University the most useful information from old satellite data has been mined and for the first time satellite movies of hurricanes from the early 1970s have been produced which can then be compared to what previous reanalyses had said was happening in that area at the time.
Under SHEAR (Science for Humanitarian Emergencies & Resilience), an interdisciplinary research programme launched in 2016 and funded by DFID alongside the Natural Environment Research Council, University of Reading scientists are investigating how forecasts can be used to take early humanitarian action.
These collaborations are not only making significant advances in our understanding of weather and climate, they are also having a critical impact on humanitarian aid response following extreme climatic events.
Most recently, following devastating flooding in Mozambique scientists at the University led work to provide emergency flood hazard reports to the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID), in close collaboration with ECMWF and the University of Bristol.
Two ongoing SHEAR projects informed these emergency reports.
In June 2019, Professor Hannah Cloke, who leads research into forecasting and modelling environmental processes and Natural Hazards, was awarded an OBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours.
The honour was in recognition of her work including advising the UK government on national and international flooding events.
We are a major food and nutrition research university, with the connections, impact and facilities to improve the world’s food system.
The University’s Institute for Food, Nutrition and Health (IFNH) coordinates our interaction with EIT Food , a Knowledge and Innovation Community (KIC) that seeks to transform the way in which we produce, distribute and consume food throughout Europe to improve consumer confidence and health.
Reading academics are collaborating with industry and research partners and other universities across the EU in 28 new research, communication and education projects for 2019.
These projects draw on the University’s expertise in agriculture, environment, food, psychology, nutrition and health and involve a diverse range of disciplines from Schools across the University.
Project highlights include:
The full list of EIT Food-funded projects at the University of Reading can be seen on the IFNH website.
A new family of biomaterials for use in medical devices has been created thanks to a collaboration between the University of Reading and BioInteractions Ltd.
The materials include a new agent to prevent a condition in which blood vessels narrow, leading to restricted blood flow.
BioInteractions wanted to develop a material which was biocompatible – not rejected or responded to by the body’s immune system body – and which could be applied to coatings of medical devices used internally.
These devices include drug-eluting stents (scaffolds inserted into diseased blood vessels, which slowly release drugs to stop the vessel narrowing).
Working with Reading's Dr John McKendrick, Lecturer in Organic Chemistry, the company and University recruited a recent graduate as part of the Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme.
The graduate used their knowledge of polymer chemistry, experimenting with biocompatible materials and polymers to develop different blends that resulted in the new biomaterials.
The terms of the KTP allow BioInteractions to keep Intellectual Property created during the partnership.
Three patents have been filed and registered in the US and Europe, leading to licensing opportunities for the company.
Besides generating income, this allows the company to expand its operations in the area of biomaterials.
The project has also bolstered BioInteractions' knowledge and expertise in organic chemistry and its application in biomaterials for medical devices.
Image credit: Ecole Polytechnique CC-BY-SA-2.0
A new prebiotic product that boosts 'good' gut bacteria and helps prevent travellers' diarrhoea has been developed by a Reading team of food and nutrition scientists.
Gastrointestinal disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease are common.
Some experts believe a lack of ‘good’ bacteria in the gut is partly to blame.
These
microbes also help us fight off infection, and are implicated in other
processes including sleep and brain function.
But to thrive they need a healthy
gut environment.
Prebiotics are fuels for the good bacteria in our guts,
allowing them to grow and multiply.
Unlike probiotics (products that actually contain 'good' bacteria), prebiotics are unaffected by heat or the
ravages of passing through our bodies.
Professor Gibson and the team at Reading have developed and manufactured a new prebiotic known as BiMuno .
This is a type of molecule called a synthetic lactose-based oligosaccharide.
After being eaten, it passes unchanged to the large intestine, where it is an energy source for beneficial saccharolytic bacteria.
It specifically increases populations of a type of 'good' gut bacteria called colonic bifidobacteria.
In 2003, BiMuno was commercialised by the biotechnology company, Clasado – now an enterprise with around 50 employees and a cross-continental presence.
The product is thriving in the growing prebiotic market, already estimated to be worth $3 billion worldwide .
BiMuno was used by Team GB to help avoid tummy upsets in Rio in 2016, and is recommended to prevent travellers’ diarrhoea by nutritionists working with international sporting stars.
In the USA BiMuno is included as a branded ingredient in several supplements and nutraceuticals.
As our understanding of gut microbes develops, Professor Gibson believes that the role of prebiotics in wellness will increase.
He is now investigating their potential impacts on cholesterol control, obesity and gut-brain interactions, including autism.
Further information
Read our Research Highlight about this research.
A partnership between the University of Reading and local firm Red Whale is ensuring General Practitioners in the UK receive clinical updates and online resources to enable them to respond to the Coronavirus.
Red Whale, a company based in the University’s Enterprise Centre, provides medical CPD (continuing professional development) for half of the UK’s GPs.
Access to Red Whale’s online learning portal is normally only available to members.
However, as NHS frontline staff work under incredible pressure to care for those infected with the Coronavirus, Red Whale is providing free online resources and updates known as ‘Pearls’.
As well as covering many other medical topics, Pearls deliver vital information and up-to-date procedural advice from Government on the virus enabling GPs to provide patients with the best care.
Martin Haley Chief Executive of Red Whale said: ”Just like many small businesses are experiencing, this is a very difficult time for us.
Expanding the business to online training was incredibly timely.
I am really pleased that our partnership with the University has meant we are in a position to be able to communicate the latest Government advice to GPs speedily and in an easily accessible, engaging format.”
Dr Blessing Mbipom, KTP Associate, said: “We organised a Remote Consulting Webinar specifically in support of the COVID-19 effort and the response we have had from GPs during the pandemic has been incredible.
Our delegates appreciate how engaging and professional our online content is.
“
Reacting to changing market trends in continuing professional development provision Red Whale needed to establish their training on digital platforms including webinars and online courses.
The collaboration between the University and the company established a knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) in 2018, matching Red Whale’s needs with a KTP Associate, Dr Blessing Mbipom and a team of experts including Prof Rachel McCrindle, Biomedical Engineering; Professor Richard Mitchell, Computer Science; and Dr Yota Dimitriadi, Institute of Education.
Professor Rachel McCrindle said: “We worked with Red Whale to address the challenges associated with moving from a traditional face-to-face approach to a more real-time, varied, convenient and flexible online approach to CPD.
Blessing and the team at Red Whale have delivered an online learning infrastructure, while ensuring online training does not prove to be disruptive to the traditional face to face courses, but rather uses the online platform to enhance and extend current course provision.
Seeing how the project has contributed to Red Whale’s fantastic support for GPs during the Coronavirus pandemic has been hugely motivating and highlights the benefits of industry and University collaboration”.
The KTP scheme is a part government-funded programme to encourage collaboration between businesses and universities, linking business with an academic or research organisation and a graduate.
At the University of Reading the project developed a digital learning offering that complements the existing face to face offerings and saw a doubling of engagement from attendees online.
Remote Consulting webinar feedback from GPs:
“Thank you!
The free webinar and three months free handbook subscription extension felt like a big hug!”
“Thank you, this was excellent and timely (free) learning for working during the CV19 situation.”
“Great, thanks; really good to feel supported at this difficult time.”
The University of Reading has a long history of global development research and action, which started in the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development in the 1950s.
Today we have a thriving community of researchers across the breadth of the institution who are working to tackle the global challenges we face, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, conflict and justice.
Further information about our sustainable development projects.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research/research-environment:
World-leading research is the life-blood of the University of Reading and resources are in place to nurture and support your research and help you to promote it.
Here you can also find out more about our approach to research.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/research/get-involved:
There are lots of opportunities for the public to engage with, and get involved in, our research.
You can help our researchers make new discoveries through our citizen science projects or volunteer to take part in a clinical trial.
Or if you’re local to Reading why not check out some of our local community projects?
We also run a range of fascinating public lectures and events which give an insight into Reading’s research discoveries.
Explore the links below to find out more.
See all of the University's upcoming public events
The British Museum’s World of Stonehenge exhibition, co-curated by Reading archaeologist, Duncan Garrow, has given a million people a window into the lives of prehistoric people, through artefacts, soundscapes and events.
Its legacy of online lectures, research and an exhibition book continues to link us with our distant past.
Find out more about the World of Stonehenge
Our beautiful hedgerows support biodiversity, prevent flooding and counter climate change, but half have been lost in recent decades.
A team of Reading researchers are informing the public about the benefits of hedgerows through educational resources, videos, webinars and a National Hedge Week, getting people talking and creating thousands of new hedgerow enthusiasts.
Hedge Hub is the go-to online resource for all things hedge, from how to lay them to hedge-related laws.
Image credit: Jon Stokes, The Tree Council
Community-led research pilot with the British Science Association
Researchers at the University of Reading are working with the British Science Association (BSA) to pilot a new approach to community-led research in Reading and Slough.
The project aims to put communities at the heart of research, exploring the issues that matter to them.
The project is supporting local community groups to develop their own research agenda on broadly science-based topics, working with researchers from the University to help bring their projects to life.
Read more on the BSA website .
Reading International
Led by the Reading School of Art and hosted by partners within the town, Reading International is a contemporary visual arts organisation.
It promotes and commissions exhibitions, performances, film screenings, workshops and talks.
Artists and curators are given a platform to make new work in response to the unique social and historical context of Reading and wider Berkshire.
Find out about upcoming Reading International events
University of Reading Museums
Come face to face with the mask of a terrifying Gorgon Medusa, see an elephant skeleton up close and explore our collection of original Ladybird Book covers.
The University is home to the Museum of English Rural Life , The Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology and The Cole Museum of Zoology as well as the Herbarium and some fascinating collections of books, prints and letters.
The University carries out a range of research trials, for example in cardiovascular health or psychology, and we often need volunteers to participate in our studies.
If you are interested in getting involved, explore the link below:
Hugh Sinclair Human Nutrition Group
Visit our public engagement page for top tips, resources and inspiration for researchers wanting to engage the public with their work.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/visit-us:
Our campuses in the Reading area are within easy walking and cycling distance from  local train stations.
Our Whiteknights campus is approximately two miles and around 40 minutes on foot from Reading Station.
Please allow a further 10 minutes to reach a specific building or site once on campus.
Reading train station is a mainline train station and is easily accessible from most other places in the UK.
There are direct rail links from many major cities, including Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow, Cardiff, Bristol, and Exeter, as well as a number of routes through London.
If you are travelling from or via London, the quickest route to take is from London Paddington station.
Trains from London Paddington to Reading run approximately every 15-20 minutes throughout the day and the average journey time is around 30 minutes.
Find out more at the National Rail website .
Getting to Whiteknights campus from the centre of Reading is easy.
The White Knight 20 is a direct service to Whiteknights Campus from Reading Station in the town centre.
This service runs up to every 10 minutes during term time.
The Claret 21 also runs from Reading train station to Whiteknights at regular intervals.
Once you arrive at the train station, you can walk or cycle to either campus.
If you choose to take a taxi or bus, the bus stops and taxi rank can be found outside the station.
A taxi will cost you approximately £8 and a single bus journey will cost you £2.00 (a day ticket is £4.00.
You purchase your ticket on the bus and will need either the exact change or a contactless bank card).
The buses that run from the train station to the University are as follows:
To Whiteknights campus (Shinfield Road)
White Knight 20 *
Claret 21 *
To Whiteknights campus (Earley Gate)
Purple 17 (frequent) or Little Oranges 19
To London Road campus
View central Reading bus stop, route maps, and find out more about travelling to the University from the surrounding area on the Reading Buses website .
*Please note: the White Knight 20 and Claret 21 stop on campus (Whiteknights House and Pepper Lane entrance).
To Greenlands campus
Get directions to our Greenlands campus in Google Maps .
For more information about bus fares, discounts and other offers, please visit our Sustainability Portal .
Junction 11 of the M4, RG7 1WJ
To reduce air pollution and congestion, and to champion environmental sustainability in line with how the University is Partnering for the Planet , we strongly encourage students, staff and visitors to attend campus using sustainable methods such as public transport.
We have partnered with the Royal Berkshire Hospital NHS Trust and Reading buses to offer the 300 Park and Ride service.
The service picks up at Mereoak and sets down at Christchurch Green, a seven minute walk from the centre of Whiteknights campus.
This initiative is free for students and staff of the University, and members of the public can pay to use this service.
Find out more details including fares .
The Whiteknights and London Road campuses in Reading are approximately 1.5 miles from the M4 motorway.
Our Greenlands campus is close to Henley.
Whiteknights campus
Sat nav postcode for Shinfield Road and Pepper Lane entrances: RG6 6UR
Sat nav postcode for the Earley Gate entrance: RG6 7BE
London road campus
Sat nav postcode: RG1 5AQ
Greenlands campus
Sat nav postcode: RG9 3AU
For further information about how to reach the Greenlands campus visit the Henley Business School website .
Visitors to our campuses on Monday to Friday between 8am and 5pm should be aware that parking needs to be prearranged and that a parking permit must be displayed.
Please contact the member of staff or department you are visiting and ask them to arrange a visitor's parking permit.
Permits or prearranged parking are not required outside of these times.
For further information please email reception@reading.ac.uk or phone +44 (0)118 378 7307
Download maps of our campuses:
Last updated: August 2025.
Most students move out of their accommodation during the summer, so we have rooms available for guests.
We offer single occupancy en-suite, standard washbasin and premium rooms at affordable rates.
We don't operate quite like a hotel so you will need to bring your own bed linen, towels and crockery but we do offer quality, affordable accommodation at the heart of campus with great transport links.
Find out more about Stay@Reading
Reading is well connected to both London Heathrow and London Gatwick airports.
RailAir offers a direct coach service that runs between Heathrow Airport and Reading town centre.
Coaches offer free Wi-Fi and at-seat USB charging, and operate frequently: up to every 20 minutes on weekdays, and every 30 minutes at weekends.
For more information, please visit the RailAir website .
A direct train service runs between Gatwick airport and Reading station.
Trains run once an hour, during the day.
and take about 75 minutes.
For more information please visit the National Rail website .
Whiteknights is the private property of the University of Reading.
It has never been a park, but a public right of way runs from Earley Gate to Shinfield Road.
The University reserves the right to prohibit pedestrian access to other areas as necessary, and to prohibit cycle access.
Visitors must adhere to University rules and regulations which are in operation throughout the University’s privately owned land at Whiteknights and elsewhere.
Our general rules and regulations are as follows:
Dog-walkers please:
Cyclists, please be courteous to others and give way to pedestrians.
The University has clear expectations of life on our campuses for our students, our staff and everyone who forms part of our community.
We expect everyone who visits our campuses to undertake any form of activity to take responsibility for their behaviour to prevent harassment and sexual misconduct.
Combating inappropriate behaviour requires responsible behaviour at an individual level.
As a visitor to our campus you are part of our community.
Whether you are speaking at an event, attending a conference, working as a contractor or buying a coffee you can expect to be treated with respect, and we expect the same of you.
National Surveys show that students are among the most likely groups to experience sexual assault.
Our #NeverOK campaign , in collaboration with our Students’ Union, has been running for several years and makes clear the negative behaviours that are not tolerated in our community.
Our Harassment & Bullying Policy Statement and our Campus Principles and Campus Exclusion Procedure clearly set out the standards of behaviour expected on our campuses.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/strategy:
At the University of Reading we are committed to addressing global problems through our teaching, research and partnerships.
Our University Strategy highlights the core values that characterise the University of Reading: a love of learning; creating and sharing new knowledge; embracing and celebrating diversity of people and ideas; and caring for our environment.
We have maintained these values throughout our history and they will continue to guide us in the future as we transform the way we work.
The Strategy provides a shared set of values for the whole University community, to inform decisions as we approach our centenary in 2026.
It sets out the key objectives for the University and also the ways in which we will review and guide our performance, holding ourselves to account using a range of internal measures and external benchmarks such as People and Planet and the Times Higher Education rankings.
Find out about the four principles that define our strategy and underpin our teaching, research and partnerships to address the needs and challenges of a global society.
We are now ranked joint 28th in the world in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024 for our contribution to addressing the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals .
Download our latest report about how we are responding to global challenges and supporting the SDGs.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/governance:
The University of Reading operates under the terms of its Royal Charter granted in 1926.
The University has a newly reformed Charter and accompanying Ordinances.
Royal Charter and governance structure
The governance of the University currently takes the following form:
The Council is the University's governing body and meets at least four times during each academic year.
It sets the University's strategic direction, ensures compliance with statutory requirements and approves constitutional changes.
The Council is ultimately responsible for managing the University's estate, finance and staff, with much of the detailed work falling to sub-committees.
A broad representation of lay members, drawn from commercial, community and professional organisations, provide the Council with a valuable perspective.
The primary responsibilities of the Council are set out in Ordinance A2 Statement of Primary Responsibilities of the Council, Powers of the Council.
More information can be found on our Governance Zone webpage.
Senate is the University’s main academic administrative body.
Reporting to the Council and meeting at least three times a year, Senate advises on areas such as academic quality, student entry, assessment and awards.
With around 70 members, Senate comprises Deans, Heads and elected representatives of Schools, colleagues representing teaching and learning and research, as well as professional staff and students.
University Boards responsible for developments and innovation in research, teaching and learning report to Senate.
The University Executive Board consists of the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, the two Heads of Service, the Chief Financial Officer, and the University Secretary.
It meets most weeks throughout the year and deals with all aspects of academic management, including finance.
It also advises the Scrutiny and Finance Committee on the allocation of resources.
The University Executive Board reports to Senate and to the Scrutiny and Finance Committee.
Find out about our corporate plans and vision for 2026
Read about the University's accounts, including an overview of our annual financial statements.
Read about the University of Reading's commitment to freedom of speech .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-business:
This course is not available in Clearing.
Call +44 (0) 118 402 0900 to discuss alternative options.
Fast-track your career and become a Chartered Accountant in the UK with our BSc Accounting and Business – The Flying Start Degree Programme.
Please note that this course is now closed for 2025 applications.
This four-year programme has been developed in partnership with the University of Reading’s Henley Business School , PwC – the UK’s leading professional services organisation – and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
An innovative, challenging degree, it’s been designed to provide you with:
Once you’ve graduated, you’ll be approximately 12 to 18 months away from achieving full chartered status.
We’re excited to be launching brand-new Accounting degrees across Henley Business School for 2025, placing Sustainability and Ethics at the heart of learning - crucial areas of awareness for all accountants.
This relaunch is aligned with the ICAEW, ensuring that our students not only study cutting-edge accounting practices but also earn valuable credits for prior learning should they choose to pursue a professional accounting qualification.
The application process for this course involves completion of online assessments run by PwC.
This will include an online interview as well as a Virtual Assessment Event.
Henley is recognised as one of the top institutions in the UK for accounting and finance.
Our business graduates are successful in the job market and in their career aspirations.
In the Daily Mail University Guide 2025, we are ranked 1st in the UK for Career on track, and 2nd for High-skilled job in ‘Business Studies’.
During your first year you will study alongside other students at Henley Business School, enjoying the traditional university experience and developing a thorough grounding in fundamental aspects of accounting, business, ethics and law.
In Years 2, 3 and 4 you will then combine your studies with paid professional work placements at PwC, lasting 12-16 weeks each (16-20 weeks during your final year).
You will receive dedicated training and can expect to earn a competitive salary, offsetting a significant proportion of your tuition fees or living costs.
During the four years, you will gain a strong academic and professional foundation in business and accountancy, along with a significant proportion of the work experience and technical study requirements needed to qualify as an ICAEW Chartered Accountant.
This means that by the time you graduate, you will have completed modules that give you credit for prior learning for 12 out of 14 professional examinations.
Henley Business School’s undergraduate degrees are taught through a mix of lectures, group projects and interactive classroom lessons, giving you the opportunity to discuss, explore and then apply the subject content in depth with both lecturers and fellow students.
Through exploring and tackling real-world challenges, you will also develop key critical thinking and problem-solving abilities.
100% of our students said the course has developed the knowledge and skills they think they will need for their future, and 100% of our students said it was easy to contact teaching staff when they needed to (National Student Survey 2025, BA Accounting and Business).
Thanks to a varied range of assessment methods – including written assignments, in-class tests, group presentations and formal examinations – you’ll graduate as a well-rounded individual with transferable skills that are highly sought after by leading graduate employers.
Applications for 2025/26 entry (September start dates) are now closed.
Please view the 2026/27 course page for information about the next year of entry.
For those planning a career in accounting, this module offers a practical and commercial focus.
You'll gain an understanding of the assurance process and fundamental principles of ethics.
You'll also learn how to contribute to the assessment of internal controls and gathering of evidence on assurance work.
Explore the techniques, principles and underlying concepts relating to the analysis of management accounting information - including the examination of costs, revenues and profits.
You'll gain experience of the approaches used in today’s businesses and understand how they fit together to provide an overview of a business’ performance.
Explore key concepts in data analytics, as well as visualisation techniques for qualitatively summarising data.
You’ll form a working knowledge of the methods and assumptions for using statistical methods given certain parameters.
You’ll also acquire key knowledge and skills in accessing, storing and handling multivariate data, analysing and visualising data, and creating regression models.
Explore the fundamentals of sustainability, ethics, and international business strategy, with a focus on their relevance to the professional accountant's role.
You'll study key business concepts, theories, and models within the context of sustainability and ethical frameworks.
Develop a sound understanding of the techniques of double-entry bookkeeping, and learn how to apply its principles in recording accounting transactions, adjusting financial records, and preparing non-complex financial statements.
Gain an understanding of the principles of English law that are relevant in a commercial context, and particularly those relevant to accountancy qualifications.
The content of this module aligns with the requirements for professional accreditation.
These are the modules that we currently offer for 2025/26 entry.
They may be subject to change as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they’re informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
Please note that the University cannot guarantee that all optional modules will be available to all students who may wish to take them.
You can also register your details with us to receive information about your course of interest and study and life at the University of Reading.
You'll combine the technical knowledge you've gained in Year 1 with professional development skills.
You'll be tested on your practical accounting skills, critical thinking and application of theoretical knowledge through a real-world case study.
You'll be introduced to various International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), which you'll learn to understand, explain and apply.
You'll gain the skills to assess risks and audit procedures, explain accounting concepts and to prepare single entity financial statements.
Gain an understanding of business strategy, with particular emphasis on how an organisation's activities relate to the strategic, competitive and environmental contexts in which they operate.
Develop the ability to analyse an organisation and its environment, examine its performance from both a financial and a non-financial perspective, and evaluate the likely consequences of its strategic choices, including implications for ethics and sustainability.
Explore the main areas of UK taxes, including income tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax, corporation tax, national insurance, VAT and stamp taxes.
You'll study the general objectives of taxation and how to calculate tax in a wide range of scenarios.
You'll also consider the regulatory and ethical frameworks surrounding tax work carried out in the UK.
Develop personal and professional skills with an accounting work placement.
Put the theory that you've learnt in the classroom into practice and gain technical work experience approved by the ICAEW (Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales).
They may be subject to change as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they're informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
Explore some of the more advanced International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), including leases, foreign exchange, and financial instruments.
You'll learn how to prepare single entity and consolidated financial statements, including accounting for associates and joint ventures, and the disposal of subsidiaries.
You'll be equipped to understand and advise on professional and ethical issues relevant to corporate reporting, data and assurance.
Focus on the key factors considered in corporate financial management decision making, in terms of working capital management, sources of long-term finance, dividend policies and risk management.
Develop the knowledge to understand and evaluate the financial decisions made by a variety of stakeholders.
Study more advanced aspects of the UK tax system and gain practical knowledge for running a business.
By the end of the module, you'll be able to apply technical knowledge and professional judgement to identify, explain and evaluate alternative tax treatments, to resolve issues that arise in the preparation of tax computations, and to advise on tax-efficient strategies for businesses and individuals.
Examine the moral norms of international accounting, investment and financial management.
Within the business world, the overwhelming preoccupation with money and profit introduce a variety of conflicting moral pressures.
Using real-world scenarios, you'll explore the ethical questions raised and develop the analytical, reflexive and decision-making skills to tackle a range of moral issues.
Gain knowledge, understanding and critical appreciation of the issues facing the accountancy profession.
You'll explore the theoretical and empirical evidence relating to a range of topical issues.
Develop your knowledge, understanding, and advisory skills related to potential business transactions or scenarios.
You'll learn to analyse financial data and identify, explain, and evaluate the outcomes of potential business transactions or scenarios in the context of both incorporated and unincorporated businesses.
You'll gain an understanding of complex business issues, ultimately developing conclusions and recommendations for clients in case study scenarios.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students: £9,535 per year for 2025/26 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your course.
New international students: £25,250 per year for 2025/26 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your course.
To find out more about how the University of Reading sets its tuition fees, see our fees and funding pages .
Some courses will require additional payments for field trips and extra resources.
You will also need to budget for your accommodation and living costs.
See our information on living costs for more details.
You may be eligible for a scholarship or bursary to help pay for your study.
Students from the UK may also be eligible for a student loan to help cover these costs.
See our fees and funding information for more information on what's available.
This programme only costs the full amount in the first year.
There is a 20% fee reduction in years 2, 3 and 4.
In the Daily Mail University Guide 2025 , we are ranked 1st in the UK for Career on track, and 2nd for High-skilled job in ‘Business Studies’.
100% of Accounting students are in work and/or further study 15 months after the end of their course (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23; includes UK domiciled, full-time, first-degree Accounting respondents).
PwC has been voted students' employer of choice in The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers survey 2024, for the second consecutive year.
Flying Start graduates who join PwC are roughly a year ahead of traditional graduates, becoming fully qualified ICAEW Chartered Accountants with a salary to match, 12 to 18 months after graduation.
At Henley Business School, we are committed to empowering and enabling you to excel in your future career.
Your degree will be respected internationally, and can provide a route into many areas:
Call us to apply for an available course, or visit our Clearing pages for more information.
The course offers relevant technical knowledge, the opportunity to gain exemptions from professional accountancy exams and is delivered by a team of enthusiastic, industry experienced lecturers who go the extra mile to support you in any way they can
This course is not available in Clearing, but these related courses still have places available:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-finance-with-placement-experience:
This course is available in Clearing.
Call +44 (0) 118 402 0900 .
Our BSc Accounting and Finance with Placement Experience degree is designed to prepare you for a career in accountancy firms, financial institutions or large multinational enterprises.
On this degree you will obtain a critical grasp of core accounting and finance theory as well as sound technical knowledge.
You will also gain a thorough understanding of the role of accounting and finance in business and society.
The difference between this degree and BSc Accounting and Finance is that it includes an additional one-year work placement after the second year.
A range of core modules will develop your understanding of the operation of the financial system and capital markets, and you will have the opportunity to apply the theory learned in a state-of-art dealing room, using computer trading simulations and spreadsheet modelling.
Having acquired a sound understanding of core financial, accounting and business concepts in your first year, you can go on to take more advanced modules specialising in your key areas of interest in your second and final years.
The final year of the programme enables you to choose optional modules, tailoring your degree towards your own interests and aims.
You will graduate with professional and technical skills that will be immediately transferable to the business environment.
This course offers the opportunity to apply for credit for prior learning from three major accounting bodies: ICAEW, ACCA and CIMA.
This degree also offers you the opportunity to transfer to our campus in Malaysia for one year, while still completing the programme in a total of three years.
This offers you a fascinating cultural experience, international perspective, and you could be entitled to reduced fees for that year.
Henley Business School is recognised as one of the top institutions in the UK for accounting and finance.
95% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 94.7% of responders from Accounting courses).
If you would like to complete a one-year work placement in industry between your second and final year, you should consider studying BSc Accounting and Finance with Placement Experience.
Our careers team will provide you with expert advice and guidance – from helping choosing the right industry placement through to supporting you while working during your third year.
To support you while applying we provide workshops covering all the main selection methods used by employers: competency interview training; CVs, cover letters and application forms; and drop-in clinics.
A successful industry placement can also lead to a job offer with your placement company upon graduation.
You will also have lots of opportunities to develop excellent professional contacts that will stand you in good stead for the future.
Organisations we have worked with in the past include 3M, Aldi, BMW, British Airways, Cisco Systems, Deloitte, Disney, Dyson, Ford Motor Company, Fujitsu, GE, GSK, Goldman Sachs, Grant Thornton, Hewlett Packard, HSBC, Hyundai, IBM, Intel, Jaguar Land Rover, Kimberley Clark, KPMG, Lilly, Lloyds TSB, L’Oréal, Marks & Spencer, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Nissan, PepsiCo, PwC, Symantec, Tesco, Unilever, Verizon and Waitrose.
For more information about securing and completing a placement for your placement year, please visit our Important Information page .
A level
26 points, including  HL4 in one acceptable subject
Acceptable subjects: Physics, Chemistry, Economics, Statistics or Mathematics
DDM
Explore financial institutions, credit risk, maturity transformation and liquidity, plus the economics of banking and types of money including cryptocurrencies and central bank digital currencies.
Focus on sustainable finance and its important contribution to achieving Net Zero by 2050.
Get an overview of the role the financial system plays in the economy.
Discuss the main players in the system, the instruments they trade, and the trading prices.
Focus on capital markets and the private and public financial institutions participating in these markets
Discover a range of quantitative techniques that are commonly applied in business, finance and management.
You'll learn about introductory statistics and mathematical techniques that are necessary for a good understanding of financial theories and which are vital to develop and understand the models used in business and finance.
These are the modules that we currently offer for 2025/2026 entry.
Study the various International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), along with the related accounting concepts you'll need to understand in order to prepare single entity and consolidated financial statements.
Gain insight into financial information techniques, principles, and concepts for organisational decision-making, planning, and control.
Understand theories, technical language, and practices within the business context, including contemporary management accounting developments.
Focus on corporate value: its measurement, and its maximisation through corporate financial decisions, growth strategies, and governance practices.
Get a good grounding in corporate finance theory and an appreciation of the related empirical evidence.
Examine the issues involved in understanding the investment market, constructing an optimal investment portfolio, evaluating the performance of that portfolio, and adjusting its composition through time.
Develop a detailed knowledge of the theoretical underpinnings and the practical techniques required to form and manage portfolios of assets.
Enhance your knowledge of the UK tax system and calculate income tax, national insurance contributions, capital gains tax and inheritance tax for individuals in given scenarios.
Explore the fundamental concepts and theories that underpin the design, implementation, control, evaluation and strategic use of information systems in business.
Discover the nature and purpose of audit and assurance and gain a practical understanding of the work undertaken by assurance providers.
You’ll examines the stages of the audit process, considering the work done by the assurance provider at each stage.
The importance of assurance in achieving good corporate governance, and its wider political, economic and social context will also be considered.
Learn about the basics of Sustainable Finance, covering applications in financing and investment activities.
You'll explore the Environmental, Social and Governance factors, and will discuss the relevant policies and international regulations.
Contextualise current issues and debates in finance by placing them in the historical evolution of finance.
Understand how finance has evolved over time and where it may develop in the future.
Learn about Object Oriented Programming using Python as the main programming language, and use the learning outcomes for data processing and applications in Finance.
Discover the basics of programming, including class, objects, datatypes, conditional statements and loops, processing data from files, receiving inputs and displaying relevant outputs.
Explore the consensus on climate change and its societal impacts, focusing on how finance can address and adapt to these challenges amidst increasing demand for sustainable investments and regulatory changes integrating climate targets.
Study the international debt markets, equip yourself with the tools to analyse and compare products, and determine trading and hedging strategies.
Develop an understanding of the products and practices of international money and bond market cash instruments and bond futures.
Gain an understanding on common financial decisions you might face.
It covers budgeting, borrowing, credit scores, mortgages, pensions, savings, investments, insurance, government support, regulations, taxation, and ethical considerations.
It encourages you to reflect on managing your personal finances effectively.
Explore advanced topics in financial reporting, as well as the theories that underpin financial accounting, and examine how these contribute to current financial reporting and practice.
You'll gain knowledge and understanding of a number of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Develop techniques to measure and manage market and credit risks in banks.
Explore recent developments in bank regulation.
Develop critical risk management skills that are indispensable for anyone willing to undertake a career in the financial sector.
Explore derivatives markets and their products through theories and practical trading strategies.
Become equipped with the essential knowledge to continue studying the advanced derivatives pricing model and practicing trading with derivatives.
Gain further understanding of the role of management accounting in organisational decision making, planning, control and performance management.
Deepen your understanding of key issues in accounting or business.
Under supervision, you’ll conduct research, which may stem from readings or work experiences, to enhance your research skills and comprehension of the process.
Learn about the main areas of UK taxes applicable to businesses, including income tax, capital gains tax, corporation tax, national insurance and VAT.
Explore key concepts, theories, techniques, and issues in developing information systems solutions for digital business.
Understand the importance of aligning business and IT strategies through an understanding of the structure and function of information processed by IT systems from both business and technical perspectives.
In this hands-on module, you'll work on project-based group activities to develop a practical understanding of the tools and techniques used in project management.
You'll also explore the core theories that underpin the project management process.
Gain a critical understanding of financial fraud, including its context, necessary conditions, detection, and investigation methods.
Learn to design and implement effective preventive and detective control mechanisms.
Develop your appreciation of the practical aspects of investing by private equity and venture capital firms, understand the dynamics between the venture capital investor and the entrepreneur, and the practicalities of raising private equity and venture capital funds from institutional investors.
Choose a finance question that is of interest to you, and produce a Research Project that addresses your question.
Gain a detailed knowledge of the biggest group of global institutional investors (pension schemes), and the real-world problems they face.
This is an applied course with little mathematical content.
Learn about fintech, cryptocurrencies, and blockchain.
Gain an understanding of how and why firms are implementing blockchain technology in their day-to-day business as well as the challenges they face.
Explore the economic drivers and relationships between bond, money markets and central bank monetary policies, and the impact of key economic drivers on the pricing, trading strategies and portfolio management for bonds and money market instruments.
Placement year fees
If you spend a full year on placement, you will only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee for that year.
For more information, please see our fees and funding pages or contact placements@reading.ac.uk .
UK/Republic of Ireland students: £390
International students: £945
A degree from Henley Business School is respected internationally and can provide a route into many areas, including accounting and professional services, banking, consultancy, finance, human resources, IT, investment banking, marketing, operations and, of course, general management.
We recognise that undergraduate study is an important investment in your future career and we are therefore very proud of our outstanding graduate employment record, reflected in our consistently strong performance in the university league tables.
Many of our courses provide exemptions and/or credit for prior learning from professional bodies including the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-finance-with-year-abroad:
Our BSc Accounting and Finance with Year Abroad degree is designed to prepare you for a career in accountancy firms, financial institutions or large multinational enterprises.
Henley Business School is ranked in the top 25 in the UK for Accounting and Finance ( The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2024).
This offers you a fascinating cultural experience, international perspective and the added bonus of reduced fees for that year.
This four-year course features a full year of study, during your third year.
Studying abroad is an opportunity to increase your cultural awareness and explore a new location.
Visit our Study Abroad website for more information.
A Level
Many of our courses provide exemptions and/or credit for prior learning from professional bodies including the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of  Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-finance:
Our BSc Accounting and Finance degree is designed to prepare you for a career in accountancy firms, financial institutions or large multinational enterprises.
If you would like to complete a one-year work placement in industry between your second and final year, you should consider studying BSc Accounting and Finance with Placement Experience .
Organisations we have worked with in the past include 3M, Aldi, BMW, British Airways, Cisco Systems, Deloitte, Disney, Dyson, Ford Motor Company, Fujitsu, GE, GSK, Goldman Sachs, Grant Thornton, Hewlett Packard, HSBC, Hyundai, IBM, Intel, Jaguar Land Rover, Kimberley Clark, KPMG, Lilly, Lloyds TSB, L’Oréal, Marks & Spencer, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Nissan, PepsiCo, PwC, Symantec, Tesco, Unilever, Verizon and Waitrose.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/foundation-programmes-ug/bsc-accounting-and-management-with-foundation:
Combine two key areas of business – and prepare for a successful future career – with our BSc Accounting and Management with Foundation degree.
This four-year programme includes a foundation year that leads directly into the three-year BSc Accounting and Management degree course.
The foundation year will provide you with the skills and knowledge to succeed at university.
You’ll develop core skills in academic study, writing and research.
Your learning will be delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials, practical classes and workshops.
After successful completion of your foundation year, you'll progress onto our three-year BSc Accounting and Management degree.
This multidisciplinary degree equips you with the fundamental concepts of the accounting disciplines, together with in-depth understanding of business management.
You'll examine a range of issues from this dual perspective, exploring the interrelationships between both professions with an international emphasis.
Certain modules on this degree are accredited with professional bodies, including:
This means you may be able to apply course credit towards professional accountancy exams in the future.
The accountancy element of this course will cover topics such as:
You'll also explore the broader subject of management through:
Building on the commercial and academic knowledge you'll have acquired during your first year, a range of optional modules in your second and final years will allow you to tailor your degree to your areas of interest.
Henley Business School's undergraduate degrees are taught through a mix of lectures, group projects and interactive classroom lessons, giving you the opportunity to discuss, explore and then apply the subject content in depth with both lecturers and fellow students.
Additionally, you could also put your knowledge and skills to the test into a real working environment and apply for a one-year industry placement between your second and final years of study.
24 points
DMM
Acquire the experience and knowledge to produce assignments at undergraduate level and to take a strategic approach to your time at university.
Gain an understanding of the assessment requirements that you'll face throughout your degree.
Learn the techniques required to analyse and solve a variety of mathematical problems.
You'll gain general mathematical skills as well as skills that are more related to your degree programme.
Develop your ability to think critically and argue persuasively in business and management contexts.
You'll learn basic business and management theory such as entrepreneurship, business planning, marketing, human resource management, finance and accounting.
Discover the techniques required to analyse and solve a variety of statistical problems.
You'll gain general theoretical skills as well as numerical skills that are more related to your degree programme.
Enhance your academic study and communication skills while gradually building confidence.
Engage in various in-class group activities and individual study tasks to develop these skills effectively.
Develop the academic skills essential for success both on the Foundation Year and as an undergraduate.
Enhance your comprehension of assessments, time management, independent study, and teamwork.
Study key concepts in data analytics and explore visualisation techniques for summarising data.
Topics will include: types of data, types of distributions (with an emphasis on the normal distribution), using parametric and non-parametric tests to analyse statistical differences, and regression models.
You'll also gain experience in using GUI-based tools for analysing data.
Develop the key skills and competencies to thrive in your studies and your career, including communication, business writing and time management skills.
You'll also explore careers theories and gain practical skills that can help you with internships, placements or applications for graduate positions.
Develop an understanding of micro- and macroeconomics, enabling you to see how businesses are affected by developments in specific markets as well as by changes at the level of the entire economy.
Discover the  purpose of the financial management function within a business.
Explore the theory and practice of financing decisions.
Develop your knowledge, understanding and skills of financial management, assessing the working capital needs of a business and the ways in which the elements of working capital may be managed.
Gain an overview of the scientific consensus on climate change and its projected social and economic consequences, in order to understand how the financial sector can help to mitigate and manage these impacts.
Cultivate your understanding of banking law in the UK as you study the banker and customer relationship, the duty of banks to maintain confidentiality, and other issues related to transactions.
This module discusses and analyses marketing theories, as well as strategic marketing tools and techniques used in the business world.
You'll explore the elements needed to develop a marketing strategy, including assessing your competitors and customers, market trends, brand positioning, the "marketing mix", and organisational capabilities.
Explore global management variations and their impact on firm performance.
Learn about national differences in business systems, innovation, and organizational behaviour.
You'll cover topics such as globalization, governance, education, and industrial relations across countries like the USA, China, Japan, Britain, France, and Germany.
Examine two key issues within marketing: branding and the preparation of a branding orientated project.
You'll gain in-depth understanding of the theories and practices related to brand management, and the process of building a strong brand.
The project will provide an opportunity to apply the concepts you've learned in a creative team task.
Study the strategic issues confronting managers of multinational enterprises (MNEs) both within the firm and in the global marketplace.
You’ll examine factors that influence the development and the competitive positioning of MNEs and gain an understanding of both the external business environment and internal nature of the firm and its strategy.
Explore frameworks that allow description and understanding of national institutions and competitive dynamics related to emerging economies such as China, Russia, Brazil, India and South Africa.
You’ll gain understanding as to how managers can address challenges of different national institutions in product markets, labour markets and financial markets in the face of competition.
Covering key concepts and theories within the area of service operations and management, this module will introduce you to particular challenges facing service organisations in an era where services contribute more to gross domestic product (GDP) than manufacturing.
You’ll be provided with theoretical and practical grounding to work within service organisations or service business units within manufacturing organisations.
Gain an in depth understanding of the complexity and variety of factors playing a role in designing and implementing international marketing programmes.
This module will stimulate your critical and independent thinking as you consider topics from theoretical and empirical perspectives and the implications for marketing operations of organisations trading across cultures.
Learn the key concepts for understanding international human resource management.
You'll explore the practice of managing human resources in international businesses and consider variations in the practice of managing human resources in different countries and cultures.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students: £5,760 for 2025/26 then rising to £9,535 per year for the standard duration of your bachelor's level study.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-management-with-placement-experience:
Combine two key areas of business – and gain valuable work experience – with our BSc Accounting and Management with Placement Experience degree.
A key feature of this degree is the opportunity to complete a one-year industry placement, between your second and final years of study, to further develop your knowledge, skills and experience.
A successful industry placement could lead to a job offer with your placement company upon graduation, as well as providing plenty of opportunities to develop a professional network.
Our careers team will provide you with expert advice and guidance throughout the placement process – from choosing the right placement, to the application process, to supporting you during the placement itself.
We also provide workshops covering all the main selection methods used by employers, such as:
Past students had the opportunity to undertake their placements in large, multinational organisations across various industries including:
You’ll also explore the broader subject of management through:
Building on the commercial and academic knowledge you’ll have acquired during your first year, a range of optional modules in your second and final years will allow you to tailor your degree to your areas of interest.
26 points
The school is fantastic in giving you support, and it's great preparation for securing a graduate job.
The experience you gain is invaluable and you may even secure a graduate job with your placement company, as I did.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-management-with-year-abroad:
Combine two key areas of business – and prepare for a successful future career – with our BSc Accounting and Management with Year Abroad degree.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-and-management:
Combine two key areas of business – and prepare for a successful future career – with our BSc Accounting and Management degree.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-accounting-beijing:
Based in Beijing, our BSc Accounting (Beijing Institute of Technology) is taught in English and delivered by world-renowned experts from Henley Business School.
Focusing on the broad areas of accounting and management, with an international emphasis, this undergraduate degree is designed to prepare you for a variety of managerial roles in both the public and private sectors.
Henley Business School is recognised as one of the top institutions in the UK for accounting and finance, and is currently ranked:
The BA Accounting (Beijing Institute of Technology) has been accredited directly by two professional accountancy bodies:
You will also have the opportunity to apply for credit for prior learning from professional bodies, including the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
This flexible degree allows you to tailor your studies and shape your degree in line with your interests.
You will gain a strong understanding of core accounting theory and develop practical application and analysis skills.
You can also apply for credit for prior learning from professional bodies like the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
The management aspect of the degree teaches you the basic principles of a company's external environments, such as markets, marketing, and strategy.
In addition to 17 compulsory degree-level modules, you must complete three compulsory non-credit-bearing foundation modules in the first year.
There are also several additional requirements, as stipulated by the Chinese Ministry of Education and the Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT), that are compulsory and credit-bearing to achieve the BIT BSc Management award.
These additional elements are outlined in the BIT BSc Management programme specification and are separate from the University of Reading qualification.
Enhance your academic study and communication skills while gradually building confidence and mastering transferable abilities.
Gain confidence in understanding and using English in academic situations.
Through varied activities, develop your reading, writing and listening skills and become an active contributor to discussions and debates.
An introduction to double-entry bookkeeping and the preparation of financial statements for sole traders and limited companies.
The module aims to help students to develop a sound understanding of the techniques of double-entry bookkeeping, so that they can apply its principles in recording accounting transactions, adjusting financial records and preparing non-complex financial statements.
An introduction to economics for students of business and finance.
The module aims to provide an introduction to both microeconomics and macroeconomics sufficient to help students of business and finance understand the economic forces at play and economic framework that underpins their specific field.
People and Organisation is an introduction to Organisational Behaviour in the contemporary workplace.
Employing a number of social science disciplines the module invites students to analyse critically the interrelation between individuals, groups and organisations and their influence on one another.
This module introduces students to the concepts of assurance, governance and ethics in the corporate environment and explores the role of management and auditors in this context.
This module introduces you to different aspects of 'business' and aims to develop your academic and professional skills that will be applied at university and in the workplace.
Discover the  purpose of the financial management function within a business.
The module is focused on guidance and support in developing your employability, including improving the likelihood of securing a placement or first job.
Gain an understanding of the critical aspects of managing assurance and audit engagements.
You'll examine current issues facing the audit profession, the legal frameworks and ethical principles that auditors must be aware of, the identification of key assurance risks and procedures, and reporting on assurance engagements.
Build on the knowledge and skills acquired in  your first year module, Business in Practice: Accounting for managers.
You'll look closely at the content and application of a range of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The module aims to provide an analytical framework for an understanding of the firm’s major financial decisions by considering the theoretical models that explain these decisions.
It develops the knowledge, understanding and skills of financial management introduced in the Business Finance module.
Enhance your current knowledge and analyse an organisation and its environment, evaluate its current position and performance from both a financial and a non-financial perspective, evaluate the likely consequences of strategic choices and recommend strategies.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students:
            This programme is not available to UK or Republic of Ireland students.
New international students:
            The fee for academic year 2023/24 was RMB 78,000.
At the Beijing Institute of Technology and Henley Business School, we are committed to empowering and enabling you to excel in your future career.
This programme is accredited directly by professional accountancy bodies:
Once you have successfully completed the degree programme, you can obtain exemptions from some of the professional examinations, including:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/what-offer-will-i-get.aspx:
Your offer
The University of Reading makes a range of offers to best fit the different circumstances and experiences of our applicants.
We take a tailored approach to assessing each application to make the most appropriate offer, taking account of:
We also recognise that predicted grades aren’t always an accurate reflection of potential, so we often consider giving aspirational offers to applicants who are predicted a couple of grades below our entry requirements.
If you are in this position and interested in studying at the University of Reading, we would encourage you to apply.
This page is designed to give you information about the different types of offer that you might receive, depending on the eligibility criteria you meet.
Don’t worry too much about trying to remember all this information though – if you receive an offer from us, we'll make it clear what the offer conditions are and what steps you need to take next.
Please get in touch with us if you have any questions .
When you look at our courses in our prospectus or online course listings , you will see the typical offer displayed (for example, ABB or IB 32 points).
The typical offer is what you will receive, unless you have an additional EPQ qualification or qualify for a contextualised offer.
The programme you are interested in might also have subject-specific or other requirements, which are also displayed alongside the typical offer grades.
Applying for university can be stressful, especially when you are also studying for exams.
Select Reading as your firm choice on UCAS and we will guarantee you a place even if you achieve one grade lower than the published offer*.
*Exceptions may apply; please check your course on our website.
Undertaking an EPQ is valuable preparation for university study and a number of our subject areas now include achievement in the EPQ as part of a formal offer.
Our online course listings will indicate if your chosen programme is participating in this scheme.
If you are taking an EPQ and applying for a participating subject area, you will receive two offers: our standard offer and an alternative offer of one grade lower in your A-Level subjects on the condition that you achieve a B in your EPQ.
For example, if the standard offer is AAB, your alternative offer would be ABB + B in EPQ.
If you make Reading your firm choice, you would still receive the additional grade reduction so your alternative offer would be BBB + B in EPQ.
Find out what each of the different offers look like and how they can be combined.
This example is of a programme with a typical offer of ABB, and no subject-specific requirements.
Type of offer
Offer combinations
Offer details
Standard
ABB
Standard, firm choice
BBB
Standard + EPQ
Standard + EPQ, firm choice
BBC
Contextual
Contextual offer
Contextual offer + EPQ
BCC
We recognise that some students are more likely than their peers to face barriers to fulfilling their academic potential at school, through no fault of their own.
The University of Reading is committed to ensuring that none of our applicants are disadvantaged in accessing our degree programmes because of their background.
That is why we make contextual offers to applicants who meet at least one of the following criteria:
You can use the POLAR and (Index of Multiple Deprivation) IMD postcode lookup tools to see if your postcode makes you eligible.
Depending on your predicted grades and if you meet the eligibility criteria, you will receive a contextual offer that is typically two grades lower than the top end of the published grade range for the programme you are applying for.
For example, if the typical offer is ABB, you will receive a contextual offer of BBC.
That offer applies whether you choose the University of Reading as your firm or insurance choice.
Please note that we do not make contextualised offers for entry to programmes with a Foundation Year.
Make sure the relevant information on your UCAS form is correct, following these instructions:
Eligibility criteria
Requirements
POLAR quintiles 1 and 2
Make sure your Postal/Home address postcode is correct on your UCAS application form.
To meet this criterion, you must be classed as a 'Home' student.
IMD quintiles 1 and 2
Disability
Reading Scholars participant
Contact outreach@reading.ac.uk for details
Select this category on your UCAS application form.
If you enrol as a student here and wish to access funding to support your studies you will need to meet the following criteria:
Further information is available on the support available for care experienced applicants and students .
If you enrol as a student here and wish to access funding to support your studies you will need to meet one of  the following criteria:
Further information is available on the support available for refugee and asylum seeker applicants and students .
If you enrol as a student here and wish to access funding to support your studies you will need to meet one of the following criteria:
Further information is available on the support available for estranged applicants and students .
Select this category on your UCAS application form if you are responsible for providing unpaid care to a family member, partner or friend who could not cope without your support.
Caring responsibilities can be due to long-term illness or disability, or short-term, for instance after an accident.
To receive a contextual offer based on this criteria, you must be 25 years of age or under.
Select this category on your UCAS application form if you have a parent or guardian currently serving in the UK Regular Armed Forces or as a reservist (full or part time), or has done so at any point during the first 25 years of your life.
We review all applications upon receipt, for eligibility to receive a contextual offer.
If you are eligible, the offer we issue will be your contextual offer.
Even if you receive a contextual offer you will still need to meet any subject-specific and GCSE requirements for the programme you are applying for.
For example, let’s say your chosen course has a typical offer of AAB, with a requirement of an A in a specific subject.
Your contextual offer would then be ABC, with an A in the specific subject.
Our course listings will tell you whether the programme you are applying for has any subject-specific or GCSE requirements.
If you are eligible for a contextual offer and are taking an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ), your contextual offer will be lowered by one additional grade.
For example, if your contextual offer is BBB, this will be lowered to BBC if you are taking an EPQ.
Due to the grading system of the BTEC National Extended Diploma, dropping one BTEC grade equates to dropping two A level grades.
For example, if the typical BTEC offer is DDD, you will receive a contextual offer of DDM.
If the typical BTEC offer is DDM, you will receive a contextual offer of DMM.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/how-to-apply.aspx:
Find out how to apply for a University of Reading undergraduate course, including our courses with an Integrated Foundation Year, and learn about what to expect once you've applied.
Learn about how to apply for a University of Reading's master's programmes and find out about your next steps if you already hold an offer to study with us.
Candidates for the IFP can apply through our online application service.
Students wishing to apply for one of our four-year undergraduate degrees with integrated International Foundation Year should apply through UCAS .
Online forms:
Academic year 2025/26 – IFP start date September 2025
Academic year 2025/26 – IFP start date January 2026
If you are unable to apply online, you can request a paper application form by telephoning +44 (0) 118 378 8372 .
For more information on applying for postgraduate research opportunities, please visit the Doctoral and Researcher College website .
For our PGCE and teacher training programmes, applications must be made via the Department of Education's Postgraduate Teacher Training portal .
For our PGCert Early Years Practice (EYTS) programme, please apply directly through our online application system, RISIS .
Admissions at the University of Reading are guided by policies and procedures that are approved by the University Senate on the recommendation of our Board for Teaching and Learning.
To find out more, please visit our Admissions Policies and Procedures page .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/question:
Please use the form below to ask us your question.
It should take no more than a few minutes to complete.
To ensure we can respond as quickly and fully as possible, please provide as much information as you are able.
We will be in touch very soon.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/how-to-apply/how-to-apply-ug:
Find out more about how to apply for one of our undergraduate programmes.
You can apply online for all of our courses, including courses with an Integrated Foundation Year, via the national admissions service, UCAS .
You can choose to apply for up to five courses in total, including more than one course at the same institution.
Browse our undergraduate courses and identify which ones you'd like to apply for.
Make sure to check your course's entry requirements before you apply.
Register at UCAS and complete the application pages online, using the UCAS codes on our course pages.
Our UCAS code is R12.
The University does not have a campus code.
As part of your application, you'll be asked to submit a personal statement to support your application.
This is your opportunity to tell us more about why you want to study the course and what interests, skills and experience you have that demonstrate your passion for the subject.
When you're happy with your application and have added the required information such as qualifications, personal statement and reference, you can submit your application.
UCAS charges most students a small one‑off application fee.
Make sure to check the UCAS website for the most up-to-date application deadlines .
If you have missed the January deadline, there is still the opportunity to apply (via UCAS), and we are happy to consider late applications until 30 June 2025.
All applications received after 30 June are entered into Clearing.
Please be aware that some of our courses may be full after the January UCAS deadline, so we recommend early applications where possible.
Our typical offers are expressed in terms of A level, BTEC and International Baccalaureate requirements.
However, we also accept many other qualifications .
What to expect once you've submitted your application.
After you submit your application, UCAS will send it to our Admissions Office.
Our Admissions Team will then assess your application and decide whether we can offer you a place.
Assessment varies from course to course; some, for example, may require an interview or portfolio submission.
Look up your chosen course to see whether an additional assessment step is part of the process.
In general, we will use the information supplied in your application form, including personal statement, predicted/achieved grades, and the reference supplied by your school or college.
You can track the progress of your application on UCAS Hub .
We carefully consider every application, so don’t worry if you don’t hear back straight away.
If your application is successful, you'll receive an offer from us.
There are two types: conditional and unconditional.
A conditional offer means your offer is subject to achieving your grades or providing further information.
An unconditional offer means that you have already met the course requirements.
Offer Holder Days normally include a tour of the campus and facilities, a visit to a hall of residence, and the chance to meet academic staff and current students.
Offer Holder Days usually take place between February and April in your year of entry.
Once you have heard from all the universities that you have applied to, you can decide which offer you want to accept.
Most people choose two: a firm (or first) choice, and an insurance (or second) choice.
If you meet the conditions of your offer, you'll automatically be accepted onto your firm choice course.
We welcome deferred entry applications.
You need to apply at the same time as if you were planning to go straight to university, but you should state in your UCAS application that you wish to be considered for deferred admission.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/about/copyright:
All copyright, design rights and other intellectual property rights in the content of this website, including but not limited to the University logo, text, layout, software and artwork, is owned by or licensed to the University of Reading unless explicitly stated otherwise.
In accessing these web pages, you agree that the downloading of any content is for personal, non-commercial use only.
Unless otherwise stated, the content of these web pages should not be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form by any means for any purpose other than personal non-commercial reference without the prior written consent of the University.
No part of these terms is intended to restrict the provisions set out in the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
Visit the Information Management and Policy Services  to learn more about copyright.
If you wish to apply for permission to use any materials found on the University of Reading website please contact webmaster@reading.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug/bsc-agriculture:
Our BSc Agriculture course covers everything that impacts production in the supply chain while considering global goals relating to the sustainability of our food production.
Study at one of the UK’s leading universities for environmental and ethical performance (the University of Reading is ranked 4th in the People and Planet University League, 2024/25).
The University of Reading is the highest placed UK university for Agriculture and Forestry at 20th in the world (QS World Rankings by Subject, Agriculture and Forestry, 2025).
BSc Agriculture focuses on studying the science underpinning food production, and you will learn how to use biology and technology to maximise crop and animal production to meet targets and achieve environmental objectives, while gaining valuable practical skills.
In the National Student Survey 2023, 100% of our students said that teaching staff were good or very good at explaining things (100% of respondents studying on our BSc Agriculture course).
Pathways
Our agriculture programme also offers you distinct opportunities to specialise.
You can study a broad-based agriculture course, or specialise in crops, horticulture or livestock after your first year.
If you select a mix of optional modules in your second and third years, you will graduate with our highly esteemed broad-based BSc Agriculture degree.
If you choose the crop science, horticultural science or livestock production pathway through your optional module selection, and complete your final year independent research project in your specialist area, you’ll be eligible to graduate with one of the following specialist degrees:
You don’t need to choose whether to take a specialist pathway until the end of the first year of our BSc Agriculture course, giving you the time and flexibility to decide what suits you best.
As part of the degree all students can study globally recognised farming practices on the University's own farms.
These include livestock production (Centre for Dairy Research and the Department of Animal Sciences ), agronomy and horticulture (Crops Research Unit and Department of Crop Science ) and environmental enhancement ( Department of Sustainable Land Management and Centre for Agri-Environmental Research).
You'll have the opportunity to visit a wide range of local farming businesses, rural estates and businesses in the related sectors and hear from speakers at the forefront of the industry, from agronomists to those involved in the livestock and dairy sectors, giving you the chance to network and build relationships while you learn.
Previous visits have included Waitrose’s Leckford Estate, Syngenta and NIAB TAG.
In one of our most popular modules you will grow a winter cereal, test it in the lab for quality and then sell it to merchants.
You will also complete a residential study tour within the UK to look at different farming enterprises as part of this degree.
In the final year, your independent research project allows you to choose a subject that inspires and interests you.
This could involve a farm, including your home farm, research at the University or an enterprise that you’ve had contact with during the course.
Outside of the curriculum, the student-run Agri-club runs the UK’s largest student conference.
It gives you the opportunity to debate key issues like food security and self-sufficiency and get your voice heard.
Placement
If you would like to complete a one-year work placement in between years two and three, you should consider studying BSc Agriculture with a Placement Year .
In the past, students have undertaken their year in industry in the UK with Frontier Agriculture, Greenvale AP Ltd, and Waitrose and Partners, as well as internationally, in Europe and New Zealand.
You will be supported by our Placements Team who will assist with finding and supporting your year out.
For more information, please visit the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development website .
24 points, including  HL4 in one science subject at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Statistics, Psychology, Geography, Environmental Science, Applied Science, Geology.
Discover the key biological principles in crop and livestock science along with an international perspective on crop and livestock production.
You’ll be introduced to a range of research topics and methods currently used within the agriculture industry.
You’ll plan, conduct and analyse a group research project working alongside a member of our research staff.
Develop an understanding of a range of farming systems, types of farm management practices and agricultural businesses.
You’ll be introduced to the concept of rural entrepreneurship and will be guided in the development of innovative business structures and ventures.
Gain a fundamental understanding of how animals' function (and sometimes malfunction) as integrated biological systems.
You will study many of the main organ systems including the cardiovascular, respiratory and locomotory systems, and explore digestive physiology and animal nutrition.
Discover the inner workings of various crop families, understand how crop plants thrive and evolve, and learn their specific requirements for nutrients, water, and light at different growth stages.
Additionally, you'll delve into how crops react physiologically when faced with less-than-ideal conditions.
Explore key ecological and eco-social challenges of our time, their causes, proposals to address them and associated debate across several disciplines.
These are the modules that we currently offer for 2024/25 entry.
Explore professional practice in the agriculture industry and discover the range of career opportunities in the sector.
Through networking opportunity and field trips, you’ll gain a range of essential career planning skills.
Discover how to manage a UK cereal crop at a basic level, and understand the nutritional cycles and the rationale for agrochemical use behind arable production.
Learn about the principles of experimental design, data management and visualisation and common statistical methods for analysing datasets.
You’ll gain the ability to collect data in a rigorous way, process that data, analyse and interpret it and communicate the results.
Learn how to analyse a business's financial requirements, assess different investment options, and explore various farming approaches, including regenerative farming, organic agriculture, sustainability, and rural business diversification.
Learn about the factors that will influence the management of food producing animals.
Through a series of lectures and farm visits, you’ll explore a range of livestock production systems and investigate how nutrition and management interact with welfare and other factors to determine the long-term sustainability of animal production.
Discover the science behind how animals are successfully fed, how they develop, reproduce and successfully rear their young.
Learn about the fundamental nutritional requirements, and assimilation of nutrients.
Develop an understanding of the principles of horticultural production used by specific sections of the horticulture industry.
Develop your knowledge in animal health biology, including immunology and epidemiology.
You’ll deepen your understanding of evidence-based approaches to evaluate a range of animal health and disease challenges, and propose appropriate disease management strategies.
Explore the ecology and management of land used for agriculture and forestry, while considering how historically humans developed land.
You’ll discover the underlying ecological mechanisms impacting on productivity and biodiversity and get an introduction on the concepts of management planning for particular sites.
Explore different agricultural technologies and their contribution to sustainability, and consider how we can encourage their adoption on farms.
You’ll discover the ethics of new agricultural technologies, exploring different visions of future innovation, and the various issues associated with the proposed ‘fourth agricultural revolution’.
Through your dissertation project, you’ll identify a particular research question stemming from existing knowledge as represented in literature.
You’ll provide an evidence-based answer, using data collected through different methods, as well as drawing on academic texts.
Become familiar with the principles and practices of growing, assessing and selling cereal crops for different markets.
You’ll evaluate the effects of genotype, agronomy, and environment on the yield and quality of small-grained cereals, and determine their impact on end-use, marketing and financial margins.
Develop a more advanced understanding of the factors and processes which affect the composition and eating quality of meat, and the quality and profitability of milk production.
Gain a more advanced understanding of a range of contemporary issues and knowledge of scientific approaches that researchers use at the forefront of bioveterinary sciences to tackle challenges.
You’ll attend lectures, participate in critical discussions, and undertake independent project work.
Discover tropical agriculture and farming systems, focusing on the physical, climatic, edaphic and biological factors affecting crop and animal production.
Learn how to work with real client businesses and entrepreneurs to develop successful management proposals and solve challenges.
You’ll develop skills required to prepare and assess business proposal and plans by working with clients.
Develop your knowledge of climate change and agriculture and your ability to use and critique research methods.
You’ll gain a detailed understanding of the complexity of tackling world-wide issues, all within the framework of Climate Smart Agriculture.
Develop an understanding of the health, nutritional, reproductive and behavioural needs for different groups of equids with specific focus on evidence-based decision making in equine management.
Develop your knowledge and understanding of horticultural crop technology, covering advanced scientific aspects and fostering innovative thinking for enhancing production efficiency through technology research and critical evaluation.
Explore the principles of integrated pest management, which is employed worldwide to enhance plant health and sustainable agriculture, including learning about pest types, management techniques, and real-world applications.
New international students: £29,950 per year for 2025/26 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your course.
Our BSc Agriculture programme prepares you for senior technical and scientific roles in a wide range of agriculture related enterprises.
The University of Reading has an outstanding reputation with employers.
Students who have completed the Agriculture course in the last five years have gone into a wide variety of graduate jobs, including in agronomy, livestock nutrition and horticulture.
Graduates work with companies including Syngenta, HGCA, NIAB TAG, and Volac.
About the School
Visit the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development website .
The University of Reading definitely gave me the chance to gain the essential skills and knowledge to succeed.
The programme is well respected within the industry, which assisted in getting a job I enjoy.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug/bsc-agriculture-with-placement-year:
Our BSc Agriculture course covers everything that impacts production in the supply chain while considering global goals relating to sustainability.
This degree includes a year in industry between the second and final year.
You'll study many of the main organ systems including the cardiovascular, respiratory and locomotory systems, and explore digestive physiology and animal nutrition.
Undertake a minimum of 40 weeks full time employment to gain relevant work experience in your chosen industry.
You'll apply the theoretical knowledge and practical skills gained throughout your first and second year of study, benefitting the placement organisation and your own professional development.
Students who have completed the Agriculture course in the last five years have gone into a wide variety of graduate jobs including agronomy, livestock nutrition and horticulture.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug/bsc-agriculture-with-foundation:
Our BSc Agriculture with Foundation course covers everything that impacts production in the supply chain while considering global goals relating to sustainability.
It prepares you for senior technical and scientific roles in a wide range of agriculture related enterprises.
Our BSc Agriculture with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
Our agriculture programme offers you distinct opportunities to specialise in crop science, horticultural science or livestock production through our specialist optional modules, or you can tailor your course to your own interests by combining these areas.
You'll have the opportunity to visit a wide range of local farming businesses, rural estates and businesses in the related sectors including Waitrose’s Leckford Estate, Sygenta and NIAB TAG.
Visiting speakers include those at the forefront of the industry from agronomists to those involved in the livestock and dairy sectors, giving you the chance to network and build relationships while you learn.
You can opt to take a year long work placement as part of your degree.
OR
24 points, including  HL3 in one science subject at higher level
MMM
Explore key concepts and processes associated with both the physical and living environment and the interactions of both within ecosystems.
Explore the causes and consequences of global contemporary sustainability issues.
You’ll critique and evaluate both theoretical and actual methods used to minimise the harm caused through anthropogenic activities whilst recognise the interconnected nature of environmental problems.
Gain a fundamental understanding of the role of basic mathematics in biological and chemical sciences.
Develop academic skills essential for success both on the Foundation Year and as an undergraduate.
Explore the life cycle of cells and the chemical reactions that give them energy and allow them to replicate.
You’ll also study the biology of the human body and about natural selection and genetics.
Through practical classes, you’ll familiarise yourself with laboratory work, as well as handling and interpreting data.
Identify a suitable research topic, develop a hypothesis, and then plan and conduct a research project.
Your research will be presented to your peers and the wider School of Agriculture, Policy and Development via a scientific poster presentation, and you will produce a written dissertation.
New international students: £22,500 per year for 2025/26 then rising to £29,950 per year for the standard duration of your bachelor's level study.
Students who have completed the Agriculture course in the last five years have gone into a wide variety of graduate jobs, including agronomy, livestock nutrition, and farm management.
The Royal Farms have also taken a graduate from the University of Reading directly into a farm management role.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug/bsc-agricultural-business-management:
Our BSc Agricultural Business Management degree will enable you to become a successful manager or consultant within the agricultural sector.
This is a multi-disciplinary degree programme combining the study of management with agricultural processes, giving you an understanding of the economic and business principles that underlie management and its application to agricultural and land-based industries.
You will gain skills in critical observation and analysis of financial and business management systems to go along with practical knowledge and commercial expertise.
You will develop these skills through contact with a variety of industry professionals, with talks delivered by farm consultancies such as Savills, visits to a wide range of farming businesses and rural estates including Waitrose’s Leckford Estate and the Hall Hunter Partnership.
There are also opportunities to attend conferences and seminars on farming and rural development, as well as chances to network and build relationships while you learn.
In one of our most popular modules you will provide strategic advice to farm businesses based on real data and situations.
The businesses do listen to your opinion, and take note of your recommendations.
If you would like to complete a one-year work placement in between years two and three, you should consider studying BSc Agricultural Business Management with Placement Year .
In the past, students have undertaken their year in industry in the UK with John Deere, Heygates and Buitelaar Group as well as internationally, in Europe, USA and New Zealand.
Some students can also participate in six week summer placements linked to research undertaken at the University, which are generally completed before the final year.
For more information, visit the School of Agriculture, Policy and Development website
Explore key microeconomic and macroeconomic concepts, and their relevance to some of the important challenges facing individuals, businesses, and societies across the globe.
Explore the traditional and contemporary approaches to marketing and management, such as strategic marketing and management, segmentation, targeting and positioning, the marketing mix.
You’ll be introduced to the environment of management, the management process, and techniques available to and used by managers to plan and operate as a business.
Discover both qualitative and quantitative research methods, as well as the theoretical foundations in consumer research and applied economics.
Gain practical experience through the development of a qualitative consumer research project that includes design, data collection, analysis, and report writing.
Learn about research processes, with a focus on conclusive research design, primary data collection techniques, and exploratory data analysis using statistical software.
Develop a clear understanding of marketing as a managerial orientation applicable to all organisational types.
Learn how and why the functional activities of marketing at strategic, tactical and operational levels are determined by each specific marketplace environment.
Explore the role and place for digital marketing within the traditional marketing framework.
Learn how to analyse the online environment, and how digital marketing can be used by companies and organisations to achieve competitive advantage.
Understand how financial tools help with decision making.
You’ll learn how to use the production function to efficiently allocate resources in order to maximise revenue, by examining the relationship between factor-factor, factor-product, and product-product relationship.
Analyse the management and complexities of modern food supply chains, and evaluate the effectiveness of food policies in addressing challenges and contemporary issues of the agri-food sector.
The University of Reading has an outstanding reputation with employers, and graduates are headhunted for key management roles.
We are recognised for giving our students an excellent starting point for the development of a vast range of careers in agricultural and land-based industries in the UK and overseas.
Graduates from this course become rural managers, trainee rural managers and employees in a range of farming enterprises.
Graduates also work in agricultural contracting, land agency and farm consultancy, financial, accountancy and agricultural banking services, in the UK and overseas.
Graduates work with companies including AB Agri, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Deloitte, Savills, Strutt and Parker, MDS Ltd, The Farm Consultancy Group, Farmcare and Velcourt Farm Management.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/agriculture-ug/bsc-agricultural-business-management-with-placement-year:
Our BSc Agricultural Business Management degree with Placement Year will enable you to become a successful manager or consultant within the agricultural sector.
Regular field visits to farms and rural enterprise are embedded throughout the course, providing you with plenty of opportunities to learn about real-world challenges and techniques across different parts of the industry.
In the second year you will also undertake a micro work-placement (2 weeks work experience or work shadowing in the industry), or a series of networking interviews to help you develop your awareness of the range of careers available to you after you graduate.
Outside of the curriculum, the student-run Agri-club runs one of the UK’s largest student conferences.
The difference between this degree and BSc Agricultural Business Management is that it includes a year long placement in industry that is taken between the second and final year.
Placement Year fees

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/foundation-programmes-ug/bsc-agricultural-business-management-with-foundation:
Our BSc Agricultural Business Management with Foundation degree will enable you develop core academic skills and become a successful manager or consultant within the agricultural sector.
This four-year programme includes a foundation year that leads directly into the three-year BSc Agricultural Business Management course.
Your subject-specific studies will focus on basic principles in:
After successful completion of your foundation year, you’ll progress onto our three-year BSc Agricultural Business Management degree.
The University of Reading is the highest placed UK University for Agriculture and Forestry at 22nd in the world (QS World Rankings by Subject, Agriculture and Forestry, 2024).
If you would like to complete a one-year work placement in between years two and three, you should consider studying BSc Agricultural Business Management with Placement Year.
Discover how individuals and companies allocate and utilise resources.
You’ll learn the neoclassical model of demand and supply, markets failures and the behaviour of firms.
Learn models and theories used by economists to understand the performance of the economy.
You’ll develop basic mathematical and statistical skills and apply these to economic decision making.
Develop skills in statistics and data science to help you succeed at undergraduate level and learn how to apply hypothesis test methodology to a wide range of scenarios.
You'll also take one of the following:
You’ll work through group activities and individual study tasks to develop the confidence, academic writing, and communication skills required to succeed on your degree course.
Study a module from outside your department to enhance your understanding of history and culture.
Alternatively, you can learn one of ten languages offered by the University at a level appropriate for you.
Examine how companies approach human resource management in an international business context.
You’ll consider how the practice varies across different countries and cultures.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-agriculture-ifp-september:
Our BSc Agriculture with International Foundation Year course covers everything that impacts production in the supply chain while considering global goals relating to sustainability.
This programme is designed for international students.
If you want to study agriculture at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Agriculture with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate agriculture degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Agriculture degree.
This means you can apply for a single four-year visa that covers the whole duration of your studies.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students: £9,535 per year for 2025/26 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your bachelor's level study.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-agricultural-business-management-ifp-january:
Our BSc Agricultural Business Management with International Foundation Year course will enable you to become a successful manager or consultant within the agricultural sector.
If you want to study agriculture at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Agricultural Business Management with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate agricultural business management degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Agricultural Business Management degree.
Gain an introduction to statistics and data science, and develop key theoretical, practical, and numerical skills to help you succeed in your future undergraduate studies.
Develop the necessary basis in English for study at undergraduate level.
You’ll develop key skills and a perspective on a range of contemporary topics that will equip you for study throughout your degree.
Develop your competence in the use of English for academic purposes.
You’ll be provided with the necessary linguistic foundation for your degree as you learn to use academic sources in a written and spoken context.
Graduates from this course become managers, trainee managers and employees in a range of farming enterprises.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-agricultural-business-management-ifp-september:
Our BSc Agricultural Business Management with International Foundation Year course will enable you to become a successful manager or consultant within the agricultural sector.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug/ba-ancient-history:
With our BA Ancient History degree, immerse yourself in the rich cultures of ancient Greece and Rome - their history, societies, achievements, beliefs and values - and discover how these ancient civilisations have influenced the modern world.
Ancient history is the study of the Greek and Roman worlds over a period spanning from 2000 BC to around 600 AD and covers parts of Africa, Asia and Europe.
You will learn about these ancient cultures in their political literary, social, cultural and religious contexts.
This flexible course allows you to pursue your own interests and choose from a wide range of research-led subjects.
Our findings feed directly into your learning, with 97% of our students saying the course is often intellectually stimulating (National Student Survey 2024, 96.55% of responders from the Department of Classics).
For more information, please visit the Department of Classics and the Ure Museum webpages.
You can enhance your knowledge of the ancient world by studying Latin or Greek, or gain an understanding of the ancient past through hands-on experience with artefacts from the Ure Museum – the University's internationally important collection of Greek and Egyptian antiquities.
You can also explore ancient Rome through our unique digital model of the city.
Your first year will be one of discovery and experimentation.
Core modules will provide you with a solid grounding, while optional modules let you explore the different approaches, periods, and cultures that interest you.
In your second year you will be encouraged to become more independent, proposing your own areas of study and setting your own essay questions.
You can refine your interests in your final year and focus on your dissertation.
You will be encouraged to gain direct experience of ancient sites through independent travel, for which scholarships are available.
You can also apply to study at the British School at Athens and the British School at Rome, which both offer summer school opportunities to University of Reading students.
All students are encouraged to undertake a work placement and the Department of Classics benefits from a dedicated placements officer to help with CV writing and letters of application.
Students in previous years have gained experience in charities and barristers' chambers, and within a division of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
The University's museums can also provide a number of voluntary and work placements.
If you would like to gain first-hand experience of life in another culture you can choose to study abroad for part of your degree.
The Department also has close links to overseas institutions including the University of Malta.
For more information, please visit the Department of Classics website and the Ure Museum webpages.
Track the upheavals, innovations, and conflicts across ancient Greece and beyond.
Using evidence, you’ll reconstruct the events and practices that are subject to ongoing debate.
Investigate a period marked by profound socio-political changes in Rome and discover the evidence for ancient history and modern methodological approaches, considering the relevance of Roman antiquity to issues in the modern world.
Develop the knowledge and skills required to succeed in academic study of the ancient world including the literature, writing and numeral systems of ancient Greece and Rome.
Understand the value of materials and how they contribute to our knowledge of antiquity.
You’ll learn how to handle and conserve objects and how museums encourage audiences to engage with the ancient world.
Discover a range of lyric poetry from ancient Greece and Rome and consider a range of thematic approaches to reading the surviving texts.
You’ll be taught elements of the Latin language, literature, and culture to enable you to read the language at an elementary level.
Learn elements of the Ancient Greek language, literature, and culture, enabling you to read the language at an elementary level.
Examine how contemporary museum practice contributes to social challenges.
Visits to museums, case studies and theory will help you to consider the origins of museums along with how information is collected and presented to different audiences.
Study a module from outside your Department to enhance your understanding of history and culture.
Alternatively, you can learn one of 10 languages offered by the University at a level appropriate for you.
These are the modules we currently offer for 2024/25 entry.
They may be subject to change as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they're informed by the latest teaching and research methods.
Discover the Greek classical age (479-323 BC), how to interact with sources, and principles and methods central to the study of ancient history.
Gain knowledge of the historical, political, social, and economic developments of the imperial era of Rome, using various sources to investigate the impact of the Roman world on the present day.
You'll also select one of the following employability modules:
Set yourself targets in order to make impactful job applications following your graduation, relating your experience of exploring career paths to selected careers in the ancient world.
Complete a work or academic placement in summer to enhance your employability.
You’ll relate your experience of exploring career paths to selected careers in the ancient world.
Explore the methods used by professionals to store, catalogue and research objects, and to communicate their meanings to the public.
You’ll receive an induction to these methods and undertake assignments based on objects in the University’s collections.
Discuss interpretations of Greek and Latin epic hexameter poetry such as the Iliad , Odyssey , and Aeneid .
Discover ancient drama by examining their content, themes, and performance style and uncovering the context in which they were produced.
Develop your skills to become competent reading ancient Greek authors and further your knowledge of grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of the language.
Further your knowledge of the grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of Latin to increase your confidence when reading authors in the original Latin.
Gain knowledge of sculpture and architecture in the Greek world, from its beginnings to the end of the Hellenistic period and consider how, why, where and when these media developed.
Discover Greek poetry and fiction from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
You’ll consider historical, sociocultural, and wider literary developments of the period and how they illustrate attitudes to the ancient past.
Critically examine the learning role of museums in society and discover resource design, evaluation, and visitor research.
Talks from museum-based professionals and museum visits will allow you to contextualise and apply your learning.
Investigate a topic within classics to form the basis of an extended piece of original research or an original artistic production.
To prepare for the dissertation you’ll participate in workshops and submit an assessed proposal.
Conduct research, explication and documentation of a topic presented in a format different from the traditional dissertation.
You’ll prepare for the project by participating in workshops and submitting an assessed proposal.
Practice unseen translation to improve your language skills and achieve greater fluency in Latin with increased knowledge of the language’s grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.
Increase your fluency in Ancient Greek by practicing unseen translation and developing advanced knowledge of grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.
Investigate and critique Greek and Roman painting by exploring the styles and techniques used to decorate architecture and free-standing objects in the ancient world.
Challenging the notion that ‘race’ and racism are modern concepts, you’ll explore racial and ethnic otherness in Greek and Latin texts along with how classical texts continue to shape our thinking on these issues.
Consider the relationship between theory of rhetoric and the practice of oratory in antiquity by examining the construction of ancient speeches and the skills required for composing and delivering them.
A degree in Ancient History will provide you with a range of transferable skills.
Historians have to analyse a wide variety of sources to produce reasoned conclusions, and this helps develop clear thinking, written and oral communication skills, time management, adaptability, independence, and the ability to understand different cultures.
Our recent graduates have gone on to a wide variety of careers, including work in accountancy and banking, government and the civil service, law, heritage and museums, teaching, publishing, public sector management, libraries and archives, and media research and production.
Recent employers include GCHQ, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Oxford University, the British Museum, the NHS, the Environment Agency, and Sotheby's.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug/ba-ancient-history-and-history:
Join our BA Ancient History and History degree and explore the past, from ancient Greece through Medieval Europe to Cold War Britain.
In this three-year course, you’ll address important modern questions and trace them back to their roots, exploring different periods of history through both literary and material sources.
In your first year, you will develop your research and analytical skills.
During your second and final years, you will be able to select modules that best fit your interests, choosing from a wide range of subjects, such as:
We place a strong emphasis on small group learning within a supportive environment, encouraging discussion and debate with academics and peers.
You will enhance your knowledge of the ancient world through:
Conversely, the history segment of the course covers the last thousand years, giving you the chance to explore different historical periods before pursuing your own interests.
You will also write a dissertation on a specialist topic of your choice, and you will receive expert help from your supervisor in managing your research and writing the final thesis.
Additionally, the University offers all students the chance to learn a modern language alongside their core subjects.
During your studies, you’ll have the opportunity to take a work placement and apply your skills and knowledge in real-world settings.
Both departments benefit from links with the Careers Centre, offering help with potential employers, CVs and letters of application.
History ’s second-year module, Going Public: Presenting the Past, Planning the Future, gives students the opportunity to work with external partners in museums, and heritage and media organisations.
In your final year, two optional history modules also offer placements of 10 working days in local archives and secondary schools.
Employability modules in Classics are built into your degree.
You can gain valuable experience and insight in a relevant workplace through our five-day Work Experience Scheme, or work with an academic on their research through our Academic Placement module.
The Department’s Ure Museum also provides voluntary placements.
You will be encouraged to gain direct experience of ancient sites through both independent travel, which you might finance through our annual travel bursary, and by applying to study at the British School at Athens or Rome, both offering summer school opportunities to University of Reading students.
Additionally, field trips in the UK and abroad will enable you to access new areas of history within their historical surroundings.
Past examples include the National Trust in Winchester and Westminster, and further afield in Paris and Berlin.
You can also choose to spend a semester in your second year at one of our partner universities in Europe, the USA, Canada or Australia.
We encourage all our students to seize the opportunity to study abroad , as it can help you develop skills such as independence, knowledge of different cultures, adaptability and the ability to communicate internationally.
24 points, including  HL4 in a History-related subject at higher level
Acceptable subjects: History, Ancient History, Classical Civilisation, English Language, English Literature, Geography, Government and Politics, Philosophy, Politics, Religious Studies.
Gain a geographically and chronologically broad study of history, discovering the potential pathways available to you throughout your degree.
You’ll not only examine specific historical contexts, but also the historiographies, methodologies and theories that have shaped historians’ perspectives.
Embark on your own research project to refine the transferable skills required for studying, and producing, history at university level.
You’ll be guided through the process of effective reading, understanding historiographical debate, and how to write in a concise and convincing manner.
Become familiarised with the changing social and legal understandings of rape in the US.
Apply your skills to reflect critically upon the historical basis of contemporary ideas surrounding sexual violence, gender and race.
Consider the relationship between warfare, and its ‘badges, battles and buttons’, with the wider social, economic and political contexts.
You’ll be introduced to war and warfare in early modern Europe and study the consequences of war and the historical basis of our contemporary ideas on war.
Examine four real Cold War nuclear episodes and the impacts these events had on fictional imagination of disaster: the 1945 Hiroshima/Nagasaki A-bombings which ushered in civil defence in 1950s America; 1962’s Cuban Missile Crisis; 1983’s ‘Able Archer’ NATO exercise that almost triggered war, and 1986’s Chernobyl disaster in the USSR.
Explore the rise and transformations of the figure of Merlin and its influence upon ideas of magic, prophecy, natural philosophy and power.
Examine a period stretching from the twelfth to the twentieth century to develop an understanding of long-term patterns of historical change.
Explore the evolution of US foreign policy on environmental issues from the Nixon administration to the Obama administration.
You’ll be introduced to key ideas and debates on the role of the environment in US foreign policy and learn to reflect critically upon the historical basis of contemporary ideas about global environmental change.
Discover the legacy of Thomas Malthus’ ‘population principle’ in shaping a series of debates across the long nineteenth century and its influence upon ideas of birth control, natural selection, ‘Social Darwinism’, and environmental sustainability.
Discuss interpretations of Greek and Latin epic hexameter poetry such as the Iliad, Odyssey, and Aeneid.
Explore public interpretations of the past and how history has been presented in the world outside of academia.
You’ll work collaboratively with external partners on a group project which will challenge you to deal with ‘difficult’ history and conflicting narratives as you engage with wider audiences.
Explore the turbulence of the political landscape in the seventeenth century as you study events such as Charles I’s execution and Oliver Cromwell’s rise to power.
You’ll consider the extent ordinary people knew of, or were involved in, politics, what events led to revolution, and how politics compared from the beginning to the end of the century.
Discover the role of South Asia in international politics and globalisation, exploring key themes in the making of modern South Asia during the period of British colonial rule over the Indian subcontinent and its impact on the wider imperial world.
Explore the geopolitical dynamics of modern European history from the formation of the German nation state in 1971 to the aftermath of the collapse of the Soviet Union in the 1990s.
You'll consider why twentieth-century Europe was so violent, how warfare has evolved, and how Europe’s role has changed in a contemporary sense.
Examine the key events, individuals and themes that shaped the Middle East in the 20th century, with a particular focus on Egypt.
You’ll explore the origins and impact of Arab nationalism, outline the key Arab-Israeli wars and their consequences, and critically appraise the presidencies of Nasser, Sadat and Mubarak.
Tackle film aesthetics and off-camera censorship and reception as you study historical films evoking a different past from the present in which they were made.
Ranging from silence to epic, to television to slow-burn docudramas, you’ll question how films reflect or shape popular notions of the past.
Investigate the impact that US foreign policy has had on the development of the modern American state and society since the Spanish-American war of 1898.
Prepare for your dissertation under the supervision of a member of the History Department.
As well as key elements in research design, you’ll begin to think about how you select and engage with primary source material.
Become introduced to the Atlantic World, discovering the impactful connections made between the 14th and 18th century and their turbulent influence on culture, economies and political structures.
Explore how these connections have left an important and, at times, unsettling legacy in the modern world.
Explore the role of women throughout the centuries with a particular focus on Western Europe.
Learn how social status, cultural revolution, and other social and economic dynamics impacted how these women engaged with, and contributed to, the world around them.
Survey the history of British – and also German, Belgian, and French – colonialism with an outlook into its legacy in Africa, South of the Sahara, 1879.
Reflect on how the colonial experience relates to gender, age, social status and initiative.
Explore race in post-war Britain and how immigration has rendered contemporary Britain into a truly multi-cultural society.
You'll study the influx of immigration from the 40s, 50s and 60s and the restrictive immigration acts that followed, and analyse the experience of migrants and the political responses of both the white population and black power and civil rights groups.
Study classical medical theories through to the plague in the fourteenth century.
You'll explore religious concepts, the early Middle Ages, transmission of medical knowledge and medical schools, hospitals and charity, diagnosis and prognosis, women’s health and more.
Survey the golden age of crusading, considering the historical context and how historians understand crusading.
You’ll develop a sophisticated understanding of the reasons for the crusades and appreciation of the historiography of crusading.
Learn how archaeological evidence, approaches and interpretation contribute to our understanding of Europe in the Middles Ages.
You’ll apply your knowledge on a field trip to Winchester, one of the richest medieval urban landscapes in southern England.
Evaluate the continuities and changes in peoples lives in the United States during the nineteenth century.
You’ll consider differing interpretations of history offered by primary and secondary sources.
Gain a systematic historical, multi-disciplinary, cross-national, and comparative understanding of main ideas, institutions, and images of modernity.
You’ll explore the contributions of European nations to the re-evaluation of tradition and innovation, the diffusion of modernity beyond the Western world to Asia and Africa, and its transformation and revitalisation by non-European influences.
Develop powers of synthesis and analysis and refine your knowledge on your chosen dissertation topic.
You'll develop vital research skills as you explore specialised literature and primary sources and articulate a well-versed argument.
Absorb the history of magic as you gain an understanding of medieval practices and theories of magic.
You’ll consider the wider social contexts within which they were developed to gain a deeper understanding on why they were welcomed or repressed.
Assess the aftermath of suffrage and reassess the importance of the 1918 Representation of the People Act on British democracy.
You'll examine the impact of the acts in relation to women, and the emergence of female MPs throughout the transformative social, political and economic context of the 1920s.
Gain and reflect on practical work experience as you develop your interest in a career in education.
You’ll have the opportunity to apply your skills and share your knowledge in schools as you’re introduced to lesson-observation skills, secondary-level teaching strategies, and pedagogy characteristics of initial Teacher Education.
Explore Italian and German society during a war which sparked civil war in Italy and sent millions to their deaths in the Holocaust.
You'll examine diaries, letters, secret police reports and Allied Intelligent assessments to gain a view of life under fascism and the differing experiences of the Second World War.
Examine the reception of Darwin’s ideas and their influence in shaping social theories.
You’ll focus on the shifting perceptions of a desirable social and biological order found in attempts by science, medicine and the State to influence heredity and evolution, regulate sexuality and reproduction, and eradicate disease and defect.
Reflect on the historical impact on the American Civil War and how it shaped understandings of what it means to be American, particularly in relation to face.
You’ll examine issues of contingency and consider how historians have understood the causes and consequences of the conflict.
Discover the utopian tradition to explore modern and historical attempts to create the perfect world.
You’ll explore attempts to put utopia into practice, for example within Yugoslavia, Cuba and Scandinavia.
Considering the concepts of ‘foreignness’, ‘home’ and attitudes towards migration, you’ll examine language and policies of repatriation and expulsion aimed at migrant and minority groups in Britain, from the early nineteenth to the twenty-first century.
Examine ‘piracy’ in terms of its popular connotations, legal definition, and social dimensions.
You’ll explore its development and consequences for early modern empires in the Caribbean and reflect on how attitudes towards piracy developed.
Explore the evolution of US foreign policy during the Cold War, the impact of the conflict on US domestic politics, and the influence of the Cold War on US society and culture.
You’ll gain detailed knowledge, critically appraise primary sources and historical interpretations, and organise material and articulate arguments effectively in writing.
These course fees cover the cost of your tuition.
An Ancient History and History degree from Reading offers excellent career prospects:
With this course, you will develop essential transferable skills, including the ability to think critically, to work in a team and to communicate with confidence, making you an ideal candidate for many employers.
Our previous graduates have pursued a career in a wide variety of sectors, including:
Past employers include the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the British Museum and Sotheby’s.
Other graduates have continued to postgraduate study.
Studying for a joint honours degree at the University of Reading has been invaluable to me.
Going from a lecture on 5th-century BC Athens to one on Cold War politics definitely keeps my brain fresh and engaged.
It allows for comparison across the centuries and enables me to see how society progresses and changes in terms of technology, warfare and plenty of other areas.
It has provided me with many opportunities when it comes to my learning experience and I never feel limited, especially in choosing modules.
On top of all this it has given me two departments to meet people and make friends in.
I couldn't recommend it more!

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug/ba-ancient-history-and-archaeology:
Immerse yourself in the ancient Greco-Roman world, and discover how their cultures continue to influence the world today, with our BA Ancient History and Archaeology degree.
As a joint honours student, your programme is shared with the Department of Classics , where instructors are at the forefront of their disciplines.
Their research feeds directly into your studies, exposing you to the latest developments in the field.
At Reading, our BA Ancient History and Archaeology joint degree combines the study of ancient history – and its political, military, social and cultural contexts – with invaluable archaeological training.
You'll immerse yourself in the rich cultures of Greece and Rome from around 2000BC to 600AD, and discover how these ancient civilisations have influenced later periods and the world we know today.
Your archaeological studies will take you even further back in time, broadening your geographical focus and enabling you to experience the excitement of genuine discovery.
We'll support you to develop skills that span the humanities and sciences.
Your learning can include:
Placements are a great way to enhance your employability and develop your network.
You can find placements across the archaeological, heritage, planning and museum sectors, or beyond the field of archaeology to explore your interests and expand your career options.
You can choose to take this course over four years to include a year-long professional placement or a study year abroad in your degree.
Employability modules are built into your degree to help you secure a successful career.
You can also build your portfolio of experience with short term or summer placements in between academic years, or explore study abroad opportunities.
Our students can also benefit from distinctive Reading experiences, including artefact-focused teaching sessions and internship opportunities at the British Museum's new Archaeological Research Collection facility (BM_ARC), located at the Thames Valley Science Park in Shinfield, Reading.
Learn more about our partnership with the British Museum Archaeological Research Centre .
The Department of Classics take students on optional short trips to Mediterranean cities, most recently Rome, and our students can apply to attend summer schools with the British Schools at Athens and Rome (subject to availability).
Our Ure Museum on Whiteknights campus also offers work experience opportunities for students aspiring to careers in the museum or heritage sector, or you can apply for a paid summer placement in the Reading Internship Scheme, working with an academic on their research (subject to availability).
You'll join the University of Reading's Department of Archaeology and Department of Classics – both communities of passionate and inquisitive staff, students and alumni.
We are international, research-intensive departments with expertise that spans the sciences, humanities and social sciences.
You’ll learn about global issues, enhanced by the latest developments and thinking within archaeology and ancient history.
You'll also have the chance to join RUined , a student-run society for those with a passion for archaeology.
RUined is a great way to meet people across Reading, build your network, and participate in events like club nights, quizzes, alcohol-free socials, and the annual summer and winter formals.
Put your learning into practice through our Archaeology Field School , which is optional on this degree.
You’ll gain hands-on experience in all aspects of an archaeological excavation, including:
We have an Enabled Fieldwork Group, which is a collaborative project between students and staff to ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to fully participate in our field trips and Field Schools.
Beyond the Field School, many of our modules include field trips to sites and museums around England.
You will be encouraged to get involved with research excavations in the UK and abroad, spanning prehistoric monuments, Roman cities, and medieval castles.
Archaeology is not just about digging – it's an academic subject that will teach you valuable theoretical and practical skills.
You’ll also have opportunities to use specialist equipment, work in laboratories, and access the University's three on-campus museums.
At Reading, you can explore different periods of ancient history through both literary and material sources.
Your studies will address important questions relevant to our global future, including human diets and health, environmental change, politics and power, inequality, migration and identity.
By studying human societies through time, you’ll understand how the critical issues of today have roots in the past, and you’ll gain insights from how previous cultures tackled comparable problems.
You can enhance your knowledge and understanding of the ancient world through varied learning opportunities, such as:
Throughout your degree, you’ll gain a broad range of skills and experiences that are highly regarded by employers, including:
All our degree programmes include professional development training and further opportunities, supported by the University’s dedicated Careers Service .
Uncover the main methods and practices currently employed in modern archaeology, both in archaeological fieldwork and post-excavation analysis.
You’ll gain essential knowledge on the variety of techniques used in modern archaeology and an understanding of current practice in the UK.
Discover the archaeology of the world’s early empires, dating from 2500BC to AD395, focusing on the great empires of ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Persian Achaemenid Empire, and the Roman Empire.
You’ll examine ideology, imperial cult, trade, urbanisation, warfare, agriculture and the everyday lives of imperial subjects, as you study the rise and fall of some of the greatest, most feared, socio-political entities to have existed.
Learn the archaeological methods and theories employed in the scientific study of the dead, both from the modern forensic and older archaeological contexts.
Gain insight into how humans have buried their dead over the time, analyse skeletal remains, and conduct fieldwork in a cemetery survey.
Gain a general introduction to social anthropology – the study of human societies and cultures.
You’ll explore key themes in the discipline through the study of topics including kingship and marriage, gender and sexuality, the role of religion, ritual and witchcraft in social life, and contemporary hunting and gathering societies.
These are the modules we typically offer at this level of study.
If you have any questions about specific modules, please email the Archaeology Admissions Tutor at archaeology@reading.ac.uk .
There is more module choice in Year 2, although you have to take a minimum number of certain types of modules (e.g.
one 'period' module in Archaeology, and one 'professional development' module).
For further details, see the list of options below or please contact the Archaeology Admissions Tutor.
Discover how and why archaeologists have excavated and interpreted the material remains of past societies over time.
You’ll examine interpretations of the past through to the modern day, spanning the ancient Near East and Classical Greece and Rome.
You’ll also examine the evolution of ideas, considering how wider society has changed archaeology and how it may continue to develop in the future.
Learn the skills, techniques and interpretative frameworks specific to the study of artefacts, including how they’re recorded, analysed and interpreted.
You'll be exposed to a wide range of artefacts covering two chronological periods as you explore methodological aspects and analyse data for your dissertation.
Uncover Europe’s pre-history, from the earliest Palaeolithic through to the Iron Age c.
1,600,000 – 800 BC), from Turkey and the Balkans to Britain, Ireland and Scandinavia.
You’ll consider important research questions and themes such as technology, dietary strategies, life histories, hominin cognitive abilities, settlement and burial archaeology, ritual practice, and comparative anthropology.
Gain a practical, hands-on introduction to field techniques and site recording methods used on both urban and rural excavations.
You’ll spend four weeks on a departmental excavation and participate in site work including excavation, finds and sample processing, geophysics, survey and aspects, and geoarchaeology.
Learn the key methods employed in the examination of human and animal skeletal remains from archaeological sites, and utilise skeletal collections held by the Department of Archaeology.
You’ll uncover the role of the osteoarchaeologist, and learn how to identify, record and analyse human and non-human remains.
Examine how archaeology, environmental science and anthropology can provide a deep-time perspective on global challenges and sustainability and how they may contribute to future solutions.
You’ll explore the historical emergence, sustainability, and collapse of communities and civilisations, alongside the role of humans in changing climate and ecosystems in the future.
Take the opportunity to complete a research or professional placement during the summer vacation preceding Part 2 or Part 3 of your degree.
You can work alongside a member of staff on a current project based in the UK or internationally, or with a professional organisation, consultancy or government organisation.
Explore the character of archaeological evidence concerning Roman presence in Northern Europe from 300 BC to AD 300, and its relation to the documentary evidence.
You'll delve into the major social, cultural and economic changes of the region in this period.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of the contribution that archaeological evidence, approaches and interpretation have made to an understanding of Europe over the ‘Long Middle Ages’, c.
AD 500-1600.
You'll make thematic comparisons between different geographical, cultural and temporal contexts in Europe and familiarise yourself with key transformations and developments embraced by this period.
You'll also gain a first-hand experience from a field trip to Winchester - one of the richest medieval urban landscapes in southern England.
Explore humour and invective in the Roman world, considering what caused the indignation of Horace, Persius, and Juvenal and how they included mockery in their writings.
Plan, organise and carry out an independent archaeological research project.
You’ll undertake primary research as you critically assess previous approaches to a research question and identify or design methods relevant to its solution.
Explore how heritage is an important global industry for tourism and heritage site conservation.
You’ll discover the historical development of concepts, politics, and legal claims on heritage and cultural property in the contemporary world.
Explore the relationships between the consumption of objects and the expression of individual and group identities in the Roman world.
You’ll focus on issues such as ethnicity, regionality, and the use of objects to represent feminine and masculine.
Discover key methods used by human bone specialists, starting with the identification of human remains.
You’ll learn how to examine bones for disease and injury, along with methods for assigning biological sex, age-at-death, and stature to a skeleton.
Prepare for employment in professional archaeology by learning post-excavation techniques and legal and planning policy frameworks.
You’ll analyse records of an excavation and create a dated stratigraphic sequence for a post-excavation site report.
Deepen your knowledge of Mesopotamia from the 4th to the 2nd millennium BC.
You’ll explore the origins of writing and socio-politics, the nature of power, city-states and empire, and human-environment inter-relationships, resources, trade, and exchange.
Explore the earliest archaeological evidence in Europe covering hominin evolution, their technologies, diets, and survival strategies.
You’ll also consider the dramatically changing climates, habitats, and landscapes of the Lower Palaeolithic world.
Explore how food contributes to our understanding of all human populations as a biological necessity and social commodity.
Themes such as feasting, cannibalism, gender, migration, and colonialism will be considered.
Explore the relationship between ancient visual arts, specifically vase painting, and drama.
You will analyse and evaluate the various sources of information we have about Greek drama, the stories it portrayed, and how it was presented through literature, visual arts, and on stage.
Explore the knowledge and skills required of archaeologists who specialise in human remains.
You’ll learn how to use biomolecular methods to reconstruct the living from the dead and develop your understanding of taphonomy.
Explore anthropological and archaeological interpretation of neolithic and early bronze age Britain.
Topics include farming, treatment of the dead, ritual practices, the nature of settlement, perceptions of the landscape, and the arrival of metal to the British Isles.
Explore the archaeology of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and British-speaking areas of England from the 5th to 10th centuries.
You’ll examine interactions between them and the wider world, and their transformation by Christianisation and political centralisation.
Follow the evolution of towns and cityscapes from post-Roman times to the emergence of medieval towns.
You’ll discover the socioeconomic complexities of urban centres, effects of the Black Death, and complexities of modern urban archaeology.
Archaeology and Ancient History are more than studying material culture and the past: they’re disciplines that actively prepare you for the job market.
You’ll develop an impressive range of practical and academic skills, whether you want to move into the archaeology or heritage sectors or enter a wide range of other industries and careers.
There is currently a rising demand for archaeologists to investigate the sites being revealed by major construction projects and smaller developments such as housing estates.
Many graduates from the Department of Archaeology have used their expertise across the humanities and sciences to enter careers such as teaching, policing, industry and commerce.
Overall, 96% of graduates from Archaeology are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (three-year average, based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2022-2024, Graduate Outcomes Surveys 2019/20-2021/22; includes full-time, UK domiciled, first degree Archaeology responders).
Past graduates have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2021 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2018/19 - 2022/23; includes first degree responders from the Department of Archaeology).
The fieldwork experience has been invaluable in my career development since I left university.
I learnt how to excavate and record features of differing periods to a high standard and was able to prove this to employers on my CV.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug/ba-ancient-history-and-archaeology-with-study-year-abroad:
Immerse yourself in the ancient Greco-Roman world, and discover how their cultures continue to influence the world today, with our BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad degree.
At Reading, our BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad combines the study of ancient history – and its political, military, social and cultural contexts – with invaluable archaeological training.
You'll immerse yourself in the rich cultures of Greece and Rome from around 2000BC to 600AD and discover how these ancient civilisations have influenced later periods and the world we know today.
A key component of this course is a year abroad that enables you to further your studies at one of our partner universities overseas.
We have a number of partner universities in Europe as well as opportunities farther afield.
For details of our current exchanges, please visit our Study Abroad Find A University website and select ‘Archaeology’.
Visit our Study Abroad website for more information, and to view the full list of current partner institutions.
Further information about studying abroad is available on our Important Information page .
We have an Enabled Fieldwork Group, which is a collaborative project between students and staff to ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to fully participate in our field trips and field schools.
You can choose to take this course over four years to include a year-long professional placement with our BSc Ancient History and Archaeology with Professional Placement degree.
You can also build your portfolio of experience with short-term or summer placements in between academic years.
Learn more about our partnership with the British Museum Archaeological Research Centre .
Alternatively, you can study this course over three years by choosing our BA Ancient History and Archaeology degree .
There is currently a rising demand for archaeologists to investigate the sites being revealed by major infrastructure projects and smaller developments such as new housing estates.
urrently, there is a rising demand for archaeologists in the UK.
Overall, 90% of graduates from Archaeology are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (Three-year average based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2023-2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2020/21-2022/23; includes first degree Archaeology responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ancient-history-ug/ba-ancient-history-and-archaeology-with-professional-placement:
Immerse yourself in the ancient Greco-Roman world, and discover how their cultures continue to influence the world today, with our BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Professional Placement degree.
At Reading, our BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Professional Placement combines the study of ancient history – and its political, military, social and cultural contexts – with invaluable archaeological training.
A professional placement allows you to apply – and increase – your academic knowledge while enhancing your employability.
We encourage all our students to consider any placements that can equip them with skills to support them in their future careers.
Previous placement students have analysed samples in labs, processed human remains, worked on hominin skeletal morphology, drawn archaeological finds, conducted collections-based research, studied the ecology of the Crusades through isotope analysis and faunal remains, investigated paleoclimate records, and participated in castle excavations in Spain.
You'll undertake your placement during the third year of your degree, returning to complete your final year of study in your fourth year.
You can complete your placement with an employer in the UK or abroad, and take advantage of our connections with a range of organisations in the archaeological, heritage, planning and museum sectors, including:
Alternatively, you may choose to complete a placement in a non-related industry to explore different career options and develop your skills.
Recent placement employers have included:
As a placement student, you are responsible for finding your own placement.
We have a dedicated placements team and member of staff in Archaeology who will provide you with advice and support throughout the process.
In addition to your formal professional placement, employability modules are built into your degree to help you secure a successul career, and you will also be encouraged to undertake short-term or summer placements with local and regional employers during your studies.
Our students can also benefit from unique Reading experiences, including internship opportunities and artefact-focused teaching sessions at the British Museum’s new Archaeological Research Collection facility (BM_ARC), located at the Thames Valley Science Park in Shinfield, Reading.
For more information about securing and completing a placement during your placement year, please visit our Important Information page .
Combine your studies with opportunities to study abroad , or take a year abroad with our four-year BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-anthropology:
Explore humanity from its earliest origins to the cultures and societies of today with our BA Archaeology and Anthropology degree.
Our BA Archaeology and Anthropology course allows you to combine two fascinating and related disciplines.
Archaeology examines the material evidence from our past and present, while anthropology focuses on human development and contemporary cultures.
Studying these disciplines together will provide you with insight into what it means to be human.
This will enable you to address issues that are critical to our shared global future, including:
By examining human development, behaviour and different cultures, you’ll better understand the roots of these issues.
You’ll learn how other societies have tackled comparable problems and how contemporary societies are addressing them now.
Using methodological approaches from the sciences, social sciences and humanities, you’ll explore the diversity of human experience.
You will learn about the biological evolution of our earliest ancestors, the pre-historical and historical development of different cultures, and present-day ways of life and social issues.
We’ll support you to develop a broad range of subject-specific and transferable skills that span the humanities and sciences.
You can also choose to take this course over four years to include a year-long professional placement or a study year abroad .
Our BA Archaeology and Anthropology degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) .
The course was among the first to be recognised for providing key skills relevant to careers in the historic environment.
At Reading, you'll be offered student membership of CIfA, giving you access to their e-learning modules, specialist professional networks, and details of jobs in the profession.
We also have close links with a number of local and national archaeological companies and museums.
Join the University of Reading’s Department of Archaeology , a community of passionate and inquisitive staff, students and alumni.
We’re an international, research-intensive department with expertise that spans the sciences, humanities and social sciences.
You’ll learn about global issues, enhanced by the latest developments and thinking within social and scientific archaeology and anthropology.
You'll also have the chance to join RUined, a student-run society for those passionate about archaeology.
This programme includes a compulsory four-week field school in the summer before your second year, where you'll develop essential practical archaeological skills through hands-on excavation experience.
There, you will gain hands-on experience in all aspects of an archaeological excavation, including:
You’ll be encouraged to get involved with research excavations in the UK and Europe, spanning prehistoric monuments, Roman cities, and medieval castles.
Archaeology is not just about digging – it's also an academic subject that will teach you valuable theoretical and practical skills, with opportunities to use specialist equipment, work in laboratories, and access the University’s three on-campus museums.
Tailor your degree to your interests with our range of optional modules and varied learning opportunities, covering:
Build your portfolio of experience with short-term placements or study abroad opportunities.
Discover how archaeological research has shaped our understanding and knowledge of the development of human society over the last 6 million years, from our earliest ancestors through to the present day.
You’ll learn how archaeological methods are used to reconstruct the human past and identify major issues of debate in our history.
Discover the concept of landscape, including biophysical elements, their patterns, and natural processes.
You’ll consider spatial structure and the functions of resources that characterise landscape, and their resilience in the context of global climate change.
Examine 'everyday' matters from disciplinary and sub-disciplinary themes, which will enable you to cultivate a geographer's mindset, actively honing your skills and perspectives in Human Geography through guided instruction and hands-on learning.
Understand how geographical knowledge and methods have changed over time and how these changes are crucial to understanding how and why we do geography today.
Recognise how geographical knowledge will evolve in response to changing social, environmental and technological needs and opportunities.
Explore social and cultural issues and concepts, such as analysing census data, iconography and participatory methods to understand local and international geographies.
Key topics include identity, inequalities, landscape and consumption.
Explore the history of the Roman world through an important facet of its culture.
Examine different types of Roman entertainment, including the circus, the amphitheatre, the theatre, and DIY activities like board games, as well as the accompanying social attitudes and the sources for them.
Discover how to use different kinds of evidence to learn about leisure in the past.
Learn about the evidence and techniques of crime scene investigations and gain the knowledge and hands-on experience of forensic investigative techniques and the theories behind them.
Follow the story from the moment a crime is committed, through evidence collection and testing, to the legal procedures and psychological impacts of such investigations.
An introduction to the sub-discipline of political geography.
This module will equip you with the tools to help make sense of a tumultuous world – a world convulsing under the pressures of a Climate Emergency and straining amidst the effects of war.
Think critically about the geopolitical world, challenge and resist dominant ideas, and explore multiple ways of seeing, engaging, and being.
Explore the methods used by professionals to store, catalogue, and research objects, and to communicate their meanings to the public.
You'll receive an induction to these methods and undertake assignments based on objects in the University's collections.
You’ll discover the socioeconomic complexities of urban centres, the effects of the Black Death, and the complexities of modern urban archaeology.
It is predicted that by 2050, cities will be home to around 70% of the world’s population.
Knowing the impacts ongoing changes have and will continue to have on urban inhabitants globally remains a significant focus for both academics and policymakers.
Explore the challenges and opportunities of living, working and travelling within cities in the 21st Century, and gain real-world insight into the contemporary issues shaping and reshaping city spaces worldwide.
Critically examine development issues, theories, and practices in Sub-Saharan Africa, focusing on the unique political, cultural, and economic dynamics that shape development across the continent.
Using case studies, you'll gain an in-depth understanding of the diverse pathways and challenges to development in African nations and regions.
The world faces wide-ranging environmental and social crises, from climate change and biodiversity collapse to growing inequality and social unrest.
Businesses have a critical role in these challenges – both in relation to the causes and the potential solutions.
This module adopts a practitioner perspective to understand the emergence and role of corporate social responsibility (CSR).
Take the opportunity to complete a research or professional placement during the summer vacation before your second or third year of study.
Overall, 90% of graduates from Archaeology are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (three-year average based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2023-2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2020/21-2022/23; includes first degree Archaeology responders).
Archaeology is more than studying the past: it’s a discipline that actively prepares you for the job market.
You’ll develop an impressive range of practical and academic skills – whether you want to move into the archaeology or heritage sectors, or enter a wide range of other industries and careers.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-anthropology-with-study-year-abroad:
Explore humanity from its earliest origins to the cultures and societies of today – and gain valuable international experience – with our BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Study Year Abroad degree.
We're an international, research-intensive department with expertise that spans the sciences, humanities and social sciences.
You’ll learn about global issues, enhanced by the latest developments and thinking within social and scientific archaeology.
You'll also have the chance to join RUined , a student-run society for those passionate about archaeology.
You’ll be encouraged to get involved with research excavations in the UK and abroad, spanning prehistoric monuments, Roman cities, and medieval castles.
You’ll also have the opportunity to use specialist equipment and GIS (geographical information systems), work in laboratories, and access the University’s three on-campus museums.
Tailor your degree to your interests with our range of optional modules and flexible pathway structure.
For example, you can pursue pathways in:
All our degree programmes include professional development training and further opportunities, supported by the University's dedicated Careers Service .
Combine your studies with short term placement opportunities, or take a year long placement with our four-year BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Professional Placement course.
Alternatively, you can study this course over three years by choosing our BA Archaeology and Anthropology degree .
You’ll examine interpretations of the past from ancient to modern times, spanning the ancient Near East and Classical Greece and Rome.
Develop foundational skills in ethnographic research through seminars, activities, and film screenings.
Explore key methodologies, ethics, and representation in text and film while gaining hands-on experience in observation, surveys, and media analysis to support your research and career.
Gain an in-depth knowledge and critical understanding of the application of micromorphological techniques to interdisciplinary study of hunter-gatherer sites, past agriculture, urban settlements and landscapes.
Case-studies will be drawn from a range of sites around the world from the Palaeolithic to the medieval period.
Year abroad fees
If you spend a full year abroad, you will only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee for that year.
For more information, please see our fees and funding pages or contact studyabroad@reading.ac.uk .
Anthropology can be a path into the civil service, international development (with governmental, inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations), agriculture, social research, the arts, and social policy.
As an anthropology graduate, your communication and analytical skills could be employed in a variety of sectors, including:
Other skills you’ve gained, such as data handling and attention to detail, are valued in many sectors – including publishing, financial services and forensic science.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-anthropology-with-professional-placement:
Explore humanity from its earliest origins to the cultures and societies of today – and gain vital industry experience – with our BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Professional Placement degree.
In addition to your formal professional placement, you will also be encouraged to undertake short placements with local and regional employers during your studies.
Join the University of Reading's Department of Archaeology , a community of passionate and inquisitive staff, students and alumni.
Combine your studies with opportunities to study abroad , or take a year abroad with our four-year BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Study Year Abroad course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/archaeology:
We use cookies on reading.ac.uk to improve your experience, monitor site performance and tailor content to you
Read our cookie policy to find out how to manage your cookie settings
Search
Uncover mysteries and make discoveries of your own by exploring our shared archaeological heritage.
Examine human development over past millennia and understand how the big issues of today – such as climate change, health and diet, migration and inequality – have roots in the past.
Department of

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology:
Explore the material remains of past societies – from the first hominins millions of years ago to the modern day – with our accredited BA Archaeology degree.
Learn how to investigate, interpret and present our human past through the study of artefacts, sites, landscapes and cultures.
Our wide range of modules allows you to shape your own learning, focusing on the topics and periods that most interest you.
At Reading, you'll examine archaeological issues that are critical to our shared global future, such as:
By studying human development through the ages, you’ll understand how the critical issues of today have roots in the past and how previous cultures tackled comparable problems.
We'll support you to develop a broad range of subject-specific and transferable skills that span the humanities and sciences.
Our BA Archaeology degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) .
You’ll also have the opportunity to use specialist equipment, work in laboratories, and access the University’s three on-campus museums.
Build your portfolio of experience with short term placements or study abroad opportunities.
Investigate the code and culture of chivalry, the ethos of the second of the three orders of medieval society, the warrior elite, looking at the development of chivalric theory and practice across the high and later Middle Ages, male and female roles in chivalric culture, and chivalry’s post-medieval survival and legacy.
Explore the Rwanda Genocide of 1994 and learn about the history of this East African country.
You'll examine broader themes, including why there have been genocides since the Never Again of the Shoah/Holocaust, and consider the possibility of justice and reconciliation after genocide.
Take the opportunity to complete a research or professional placement during the summer vacation before the start of your second or third year of study.
The lecturers within the Department were passionate, endlessly supportive and dedicated to their subjects and students.
This encouraged me to strive to find the same passion and dedication in my degree and future careers.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-with-professional-experience:
Explore the material remains of past societies – from the first hominins millions of years ago to the modern day – and develop skills in the workplace with our accredited BA Archaeology with Professional Placement degree.
In addition to your formal professional placement, you will also be encouraged to undertake short-term and summer placements with local and regional employers during your studies.
Our BA Archaeology with Professional Placement degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) .
Combine your studies with opportunities to study abroad , or take a year abroad with our four-year BA Archaeology with Study Year Abroad course.
Alternatively, you can study this course over three years by choosing our BA Archaeology degree .
Professional Placement Year
Take the opportunity to complete a research or professional placement during the summer vacation before the start of your second or third year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-with-study-abroad-year:
Explore the material remains of past societies – from the first hominins millions of years ago to the modern day – and broaden your skills and experience by studying overseas with our accredited BA Archaeology with Study Year Abroad degree.
Our BA Archaeology degrees are accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) .
Our courses were among the first courses to be recognised for providing key skills relevant to careers in the historic environment.
At Reading, you'll be offered student membership of CIfA, giving you access to their e-learning modules, specialist professional networks and details of jobs in the profession.
We also have very close links with a number of local and national archaeological companies and museums.
Combine your studies with short-term placement opportunities, or take a year long placement with our four-year BA Archaeology with Professional Placement course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-history:
Explore the richness and variety of past human experience, and discover its influence on our present and future, with our BA Archaeology and History degree.
As a joint degree student, your programme is shared with the Department of History , which is known for its educational excellence and research innovation.
Teaching staff are experts in a broad range of fields.
Their expertise covers political, cultural, social, gender and transnational history, the history of ideas and beliefs, and the history of science and health.
Our BA Archaeology and History degree combines the study of history – and its political, social and cultural contexts – with invaluable archaeological training.
In your archaeological studies, you’ll study material remains to uncover our human past, from as early as the first hominins millions of years ago.
Your historical studies will span the last thousand years, with a broad geographical spread that covers Britain and Europe, Africa, America, the Middle East and South Asia.
You’ll examine historical records and explore visual and material culture through texts, paintings, photographs, films and oral sources.
Studying these complementary subjects together will provide a richer, more holistic understanding of our shared human past.
You’ll balance your critical evaluation of historical sources against the physical evidence of lived experience provided by archaeological finds.
Our students can also benefit from distinctive Reading experiences, including artefact-focused teaching sessions and internship opportunities at the British Museum's new Archaeological Research Collection facility (BM_ARC), located at the Thames Valley Science Park.
Join the University of Reading's Department of Archaeology and Department of History – both communities of passionate and inquisitive staff, students and alumni.
You’ll learn about global issues, enhanced by the latest developments and thinking within archaeology and history.
The Department of History offers a study trip module, taking an in-depth look at the history and culture of a city in the UK or abroad.
Previous locations have included Berlin, Rome and Paris.
At Reading, you can enhance your knowledge and understanding of the past through varied learning opportunities, such as:
Our innovative Department of History offers employability modules which enable you to explore your career options:
Learn one of ten languages offered by the University at a level appropriate for you.
Survey the history of the ‘golden age’ of crusading (1095-1291) and reflect on the crusaders, the crusades, and the crusader states within their historical context.
Develop a sophisticated understanding on the religious, political, social and economic reasons for the crusades.
Study the development of piracy and maritime raiding as a historical phenomenon, and its consequences for early modern empires.
You'll reflect on the ways attitudes regarding piracy developed and were understood within differing social contexts and consider historical interpretation of piracy and its significance to politics, economics and gender.
Explore humanity’s most cherished and long-standing dream: the quest for a perfect world.
Discover the roots of utopian tradition in contrast to modern ideals of utopia c.1800-c.2000, examining attempts to put utopia into practice in small and large scales – from communes to examples of Yugoslavia and Cuba.
Explore the evolution of US foreign policy during the Cold War as you examine the impact of the conflict on US domestic politics and the wider influence of the Cold War on US society and culture.
Examine the language and policy based on concepts of repatriation and expulsion of migrant and minority groups in modern Britain.
You'll explore the notions of ‘self’ and ‘other’, the concept of 'foreignness' and 'home', attitudes toward migration, and the relationship between voluntary and forced forms of repatriation spanning from the early nineteenth century to the twenty-first century.
You'll gain insights into how migration, minority identities, and responses to migration have influenced modern British politics, economics, culture, and society and analyse long-term historical patterns, the relationship between ideas and policies, and the cyclical nature of migration discourse.
Archaeology and History are more than studying material culture and the past: they’re disciplines that actively prepare you for the job market.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-history-with-professional-experience:
Explore the richness of our shared human past and gain valuable hands-on experience with our BA Archaeology and History with Professional Placement degree.
Combine your studies with opportunities to study abroad , or take a year abroad with our four-year BA Archaeology and History with Study Year Abroad course.
Alternatively, you can study this course over three years by choosing our BA Archaeology and History degree .
Explore archaeological evidence for Roman presence in Northern Europe between the years 300 BC and AD 300.
You’ll also consider the wider context of major social, cultural, and economic changes in the region during this period.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-archaeology-and-history-with-study-year-abroad:
Explore the richness of our shared human past and gain valuable international experience with our BA Archaeology and History with Study Year Abroad degree.
Combine your studies with short-term placement opportunities, or take a year-long placement with our four-year BA Archaeology and History with Professional Placement course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-museum-studies-and-archaeology:
Take your first step towards a rewarding career in heritage with our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology degree.
At Reading, you will combine the study of museology with the excitement of archaeological discovery.
You'll learn the core skills of curatorship: researching, analysing, cataloguing, interpreting and displaying museum objects, historic buildings and landscapes.
You will also benefit from the professional expertise of our Museum Studies staff.
All of our lecturers are practising heritage professionals, including curators, conservators and archivists.
With our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology degree, you'll explore archaeological techniques and gain practical training on museum practices, perspectives and ethics.
Your studies will explore our human past through material remains, spanning as far back as the first hominins millions of years ago.
At Reading, you'll examine archaeological and heritage issues that are critical to our shared global future, including:
You’ll learn how to investigate, interpret and present our human past through artefacts, sites, digital and museum exhibitions, and public engagement.
We’ll support you to develop a broad range of subject-specific and transferable skills that span the sciences, humanities and social sciences.
By studying human societies through time and investigating how we discuss and display them today, you'll understand how today's issues have roots in the past, and how previous cultures tackled comparable problems.
International students can choose this course with a foundation year .
Join the University of Reading's Department of Archaeology and Museum Studies – both communities of passionate and inquisitive staff, students and alumni.
Archaeology is an international, research-intensive department with expertise that spans the sciences, humanities and social sciences.
You’ll learn about global issues, enhanced by the latest developments in research.
You’ll be encouraged to get involved with research excavations in the UK and Europe, spanning prehistoric monuments, Roman cities and medieval castles.
At Reading, you’ll learn through a combination of problem-solving and enquiry-based learning techniques.
You can also enhance your knowledge and understanding of museum and archaeological practices through varied learning opportunities, such as:
Tailor your degree to your interests with our range of optional modules and varied learning opportunities, through modules and opportunities that cover:
Changing the Face of the Earth: Past, Present and Future Sustainability
Put your learning into practice to research, design, and install a public exhibition using the University collections.
You'll accompany your exhibition with a literature review on the subject matter and keep an exhibition diary, on which you’ll be assessed.
Museum Studies and Archaeology are more than studying material culture: they’re disciplines that actively prepare you for the job market.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-museum-studies-and-archaeology-with-professional-experience:
Take your first step towards a rewarding career in heritage – and gain vital industry experience – with our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Professional Placement degree.
With our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Professional Placement degree, you'll explore archaeological techniques and gain practical training on museum practices, perspectives and ethics.
You’ll be encouraged to get involved with research excavations in the UK and abroad, spanning prehistoric monuments, Roman cities and medieval castles.
Combine your studies with opportunities to study abroad , or take a year abroad with our four-year BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad course.
Alternatively, you can study this course over three years by choosing our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology degree .
Discover key methods used by human bone specialists, starting
with the identification of human remains.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/archaeology-ug/ba-museum-studies-and-archaeology-with-study-year-abroad:
Take your first step towards a rewarding career in heritage – and gain international experience – with our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad degree.
With our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Study Year Abroad degree, you'll explore archaeological techniques and gain practical training on museum practices, perspectives and ethics.
Combine your studies with short-term placement opportunities, or take a year long placement with our four-year BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with Professional Placement course.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/ba-museum-studies-and-archaeology-ifp-september:
Our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with International Foundation Year course enables you to combine the study of museology with the excitement of archaeological discovery.
Our BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with International Foundation Year course enables you to combine the study of museology with the excitement of archaeological discovery.
If you want to study museum studies and archaeology at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BA Museum Studies and Archaeology with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate museum studies and archaeology degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BA Museum Studies and Archaeology degree, joining the Department of Archaeology .
Acquire academic study and communication skills to support your International Foundation Programme and Undergraduate studies.
You’ll develop confidence and abilities in these transferable skills through a range of in-class group activities and individual study tasks.
Delve into the past, present, and future of museums within a global context.
You'll examine the origins of museums, collecting histories, social justice, repatriation, hidden voices, decolonisation, inclusivity, and the role of different audiences in curation, and learn through lectures, practical workshops, museum visits, and individual and group assessments.
Examine the learning role of museums in society.
You'll become acquainted with learning theory, program and event management, as well as resource design, evaluation, and visitor research.
You'll have the opportunity to learn from professionals involved in museum-based learning and engagement and to observe and assess learning resources and events.
Explore the methods used by museum professionals to store, catalogue, research objects, and communicate their meaning to the general public.
You'll gain a practical introduction to researching, cataloguing, interpreting, and displaying museum objects, working with items from the University of Reading's collections.
Gain an understanding of the contribution that archaeological evidence, approaches, and interpretation have made to an understanding of Europe over the ‘Long Middle Ages’, c.
You’ll learn to make thematic comparisons between different geographical, cultural, and temporal contexts in Europe and visit Winchester - one of the richest medieval urban landscapes in southern England.
Learn the key methods employed in the examination of human and animal skeletal remains from archaeological sites and utilise skeletal collections held by the Department of Archaeology.
You’ll gain insight into the roles of osteoarchaeologists and develop skills in identifying, recording, and analysing human and non-human skeletal remains.
Experience the opportunity to put your knowledge from Museum studies into practice with a final exhibition.
You’ll research, design, and install a museum exhibition using the University of Reading collections.
You'll be assessed on a literature review regarding the subject matter of the exhibition, an exhibition diary, and a group mark for the final exhibition.
Learn about the historical development of politics and legal claims relating to heritage and cultural property in the contemporary world, including their social, economic, and environmental impacts, through various national and global institutions such as English Heritage and UNESCO.
Learn to identify humans from non-human remains, assign biological sex, age at death, and stature to an individual skeleton, and identify common pathologies through hands-on and problem-based learning.
You’ll also learn to identify bone fragments commonly encountered during archaeological excavation and post-excavation analysis.
Learn advanced post-excavation techniques to complement your practical excavation and recording skills including creating a dated stratigraphic sequence, using a Geographic Information System (GIS), understanding the legal and planning policy framework of professional archaeology, preparing a Written Scheme of Investigation, and working with archaeological databases and Historic England Records.
Acquire a comprehensive understanding of Mesopotamia during the period between the late 4th to early 2nd millennium BC, and gain a critical understanding of the theoretical and methodological approaches used for studying early urban settlements and societies in this region, as well as in archaeology more broadly.
Gain a better understanding of how investigating foodways contributes to archaeological and anthropological research, and learn about human populations in different cultural and historical contexts.
You’ll analyse key debates in the field and gain insight into the relationship between evidence and interpretation.
New international students: £22,500 per year for 2025/26 then rising to £25,250 per year for the standard duration of your bachelor's level study.
This degree can lead to a variety of careers.
The course is an ideal foundation to begin your career in heritage management, commercial archaeology, and research, as well as disciplines such as teaching, business, publishing and marketing.
You will gain a broad range of subject-specific and transferable skills spanning the humanities and sciences.
This provides you with knowledge in subjects you are passionate about and qualities that employers really care about – qualities that are transferable to a diverse range of careers.As a Museum Studies and Archaeology graduate you will develop strong transferable skills, and gain first-hand experience in handling objects, delivering presentations, and investigating other cultures in depth.
Your practical experience of archaeological techniques will also give you skills in analysis, problem-solving, working in teams and fieldwork.
You will learn to think and research like a museum professional, and your three years’ experience of working within a multifaceted organisation will make you highly employable in any sector.
We have long-established, excellent relationships with employers within the heritage, archaeology and related sectors.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/ba-museum-studies-and-archaeology-ifp-january:
The foundation year is designed to equip you with the subject-specific and general study skills needed to cope with the demands of undergraduate study.
Our high-quality teaching is geared towards the needs of students from a wide range of educational backgrounds.
For more information, visit the International Foundation Programme website.
Learn to identify human from non-human remains, assign biological sex, age-at-death, and stature to an individual skeleton, and identify common pathologies through hands-on and problem-based learning.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/cme/undergraduate/undergraduate-courses/scholarship-conditions-2025:
If you join the School of the Built Environment in 2025, you may be eligible for an annual £1,000 scholarship for each year of study on the following courses:
To be eligible for the scheme, applicants must meet the following criteria:
Conditional offer holders must show they have met the conditions of their offer, and therefore hold an unconditional place on the qualifying programme, by the final deadline (normally the first week of September).
The scholarships are available to applicants from any country and apply only to those who enrol directly onto Year 1 of their course in 2025.
Students who have a previous degree or other higher education qualifications will not be eligible.
It should be noted that:
* AAB at A level is equivalent to International Baccalaureate 34 points and BTEC Diploma DDD.
If you are studying a different qualification and would like to check the equivalent requirements, please contact the Undergraduate Admissions Team on ugadmissions@reading.ac.uk .
School of

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architectural-engineering-ug/beng-architectural-engineering:
Our three-year BEng Architectural Engineering course equips you with the design and engineering skills to deliver sustainable solutions to problems in the built environment.
We're one of the UK's top-ranking universities for teaching and research in the built environment:
With a focus on sustainable energy and environmental engineering, an architectural engineering degree from Reading provides you with in-demand knowledge and skills for a career in a fast-growing sector.
Sustainability is an important theme in our programmes, from the use of materials to environmental management and assessment.
You’ll study integrated approaches to the design, management and operation of efficient buildings in an urban context.
Our BEng Architectural Engineering course offers a grounding in the fundamental principles of architectural engineering, including:
You will also have the opportunity to switch to our four-year MEng Architectural Engineering course if you wish to complete an integrated master’s degree.
Read about Daniel’s experience switching from the BEng course to the MEng course
We are engaging with the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) and Energy Institute (EI) to work towards accreditation of our programmes.
Your studies will be supported by access to dedicated facilities, which include:
The School of the Built Environment is highly regarded for its research and education.
100% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning), and 100% of our research impact has been classed ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning).
We are also ranked 2nd in the UK for Building in the Complete University Guide, 2026.
Our research expertise spans: building and urban environmental quality; urban green infrastructure; indoor environmental quality; energy system behaviours as related to energy demands at the scale of buildings, power network operation, future energy technology portfolios, demand side management, and the relationship of urban climate-energy-environmental systems.
We lead the Flexibility Theme of the new £15 million national Energy Demand Centre, as part of a £53 million UK government investment in six research hubs and centres aiming to help the UK meet its net zero target by 2050.
You'll learn with a multidisciplinary team of experts who teach the very best of current practice, drawing on their research excellence and extensive experience working with industry.
98% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024, 97.75% of responders from the School of Construction Management and Engineering).
Our close relationships with industry and professional institutions will give you the opportunity to build a network of contacts during your studies, enabling you to develop strong foundations for a sustainable career.
Many of our modules include guest lectures from industry professionals.
To enhance your studies, we offer you the opportunity to experience real working environments throughout your degree course.
Field trips to construction sites, practitioner offices, manufacturing facilities and large-scale urban developments allow you to see construction operations first-hand.
You can gain a greater understanding of corporate and professional offices, have the chance to see new and cutting-edge practices implemented in relevant settings, and gain insights into innovative methods.
In the past we have visited the BRE Innovation Park, the National Self Build & Renovation Centre and the Weald & Downland Living Museum, as well as several manufacturing facilities which focus on prefabricated building projects.
You will have the opportunity to engage with real project work and industry during your studies, through the Construction Live Project.
This project, run over two weeks including a one week residential at the Constructionarium in Norfolk, involves students planning and building scaled down versions of buildings, bridges and other constructions from around the world, adhering to industry and budgetary regulations.
Our BEng Architectural Engineering course offers the opportunity to undertake a paid industrial placement year, or a summer placement, before your final year.
Our dedicated placement officer will provide tailored advice and support in finding the ideal placement for you.
Placements can be located anywhere in the UK and sometimes overseas.
You may also choose to study abroad for a year, giving you the chance to boost your employability while gaining fantastic life experience.
The experience and knowledge gained during an industrial placement, or in studying abroad, will help you make the most of your final year of study.
You’ll also gain valuable background knowledge for your future career.
“I’d recommend a placement, whether that’s a summer placement or a year placement, because this will expose you to the industry and help you to understand whether this is the right career path for you.” – Ayub Mohamed, recent graduate from the School of Construction Management and Engineering.
As part of the cohort joining the BEng Architectural Engineering course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
24 points, including  HL4 in Maths at higher level
Unlock the history of the built environment through a collection of historical developments that illustrate relationships between materials, structures, and design.
You'll be provided with the principles of structural design and analysis as you learn to recognise developments in relationships between space, design and emerging technologies.
Learn the mathematical techniques and skills needed to solve engineering problems as you carry out analysis and calculations, express problems in a mathematical language, and communicate mathematical ideas clearly and succinctly.
Discover the importance of information representation and communication in the construction of building projects.
With a focus on the principles, tools and methods needed to graphically represent and visually communicate project-related information, you'll develop the ability to effectively communicate in graphical, written and verbal forms.
Study the principles of building services, including electricity distribution, supply and transportation systems in buildings, thermal comfort, fire protection and fire safety.
You'll develop a range of key skills as you begin to research, develop and solve matters related to healthy building design and operation.
Explore the principles of construction engineering methods, experimental design measurement, and technical report writing.
You'll develop your capacity to link theory to practical and physical applications, and evaluate the strengths and limitations of knowledge.
Discover the significance of numerical modelling and programming in the study, design, problem-solving, management and control of engineered and physical systems in the built environment.
Using Python programming language, you'll be introduced to setting up a computer to carry out basic programming tasks and numerical modelling methods.
These are the modules that we currently offer for 2024/2025 entry.
Gain relevant knowledge of building services, including physical principles of sound, acoustics, and lighting, together with principles related to the design of drainage and water distribution systems in buildings, and fundamentals of water treatment and heating, cooling, and ventilation systems.
Learn and develop the concept of architectural design through the lens of environmental engineering.
You'll learn critical approaches to architectural design that incorporate aesthetic aspects of design, technical requirements, and environmental space.
Discover the theory and application of thermodynamics and heat transfer in architectural engineering.
You'll explore different forms of heat transfer, the laws of thermodynamics, the concept of entropy, and thermodynamic cycles, and develop problem-solving skills essential to good engineering practice.
Develop a forensic understanding of the decay of buildings and the process of surveying buildings.
You'll consider the roles of professional bodies (RICS and CIOB) in the delivery of professional surveying advice, and consider the importance of professional guidance in producing technical reports related to sustainability, ethics and accessibility.
Learn the principles of statistical data analysis to assess real-world engineering problems.
You'll use basic statistical techniques, quantitative data analysis methods, and software to analyse data and discover the difference between parametric and non-parametric analysis.
Expand your knowledge of programming as you explore different numerical methods and the application of numerical methods in the study of physical processes associated with engineering for the built environment.
You'll study methods that will form the basis of a computer programming design project to model physical processes for the built environment.
Gain the knowledge and techniques to assess the thermal and energy performance of buildings.
You'll design appropriate heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems as you consider climate conditions, building type, occupancy patterns and profiles, required indoor thermal conditions, and air quality.
Consider the role, practice and application of sustainability for built environment professionals as you apply the fundamentals of resource efficiency and relevant frameworks to debate and research.
You'll learn the role of natural systems and processes in cities, considering how they affect the sustainability of urban areas, and discover current solutions being proposed for sustainability challenges.
Explore digital technologies and collaborative information modelling and management initiatives as you discover common technology and process-related implementation challenges facing the industry.
You'll learn about the concept of building information modelling (BIM) as a collaborative information management process, supported by a range of digital tools.
Develop your knowledge of research methods, analysis, and the process of writing a dissertation while gaining the key research skills necessary to prepare a research proposal.
You’ll receive support and guidance, as well as learn how to implement your research strategy and develop a well-structured dissertation.
Consider issues of environmental management and assessment from conceptual and applied perspectives.
Focus on corporate environmental management, alongside environmental assessment, as you use environmental and economic assessment tools, calculate profitability, and consider the relationship between environmental management and the built environment.
Through a live construction project, you'll have the opportunity to experience the challenge of managing and building as part of a two-week, intensive project.
You'll plan, schedule, cost, manage health and safety, and finally build a scaled version of an iconic build or building in this hands-on, dynamic project.
Identify the issues related to inclusion and accessibility as you consider legislation relevant to the access of commercial buildings for those with recognised physical or mental impairments.
You'll learn to recognise the diversity of disability, the obligations to provide appropriate access, and the benefits of implementing more-than-legal minimums from both commercial and social perspectives.
Gain awareness of the scale and size of the international construction market.
You'll explore how different construction projects are financed, designed, engineered, procured and delivered, as you study the contrast between advanced, industrial nations and low-income countries.
Learn the theories, core practices and processes of human resource management (HRM) as you consider their impact on organisational and individual performance.
Examine the development of different HRM practices in different contexts, how practices can be applied in the construction industry, and how the legal framework for health and safety in the industry is formulated.
This module is a year-long placement.
If you select this option, it will last for the entirety of your third year, after which you will return to complete Part Three of your degree.
Develop a deeper understanding of the workings of construction as you embark on a year in industry.
You'll acquire vital knowledge of your chosen subject as you develop key professional and technical skills, critically reflect on practice, conduct reports, and give presentations.
The engineering sector is expanding rapidly.
It is projected that there will be 173,000 additional jobs in engineering and technology by 2030 ( Engineering UK, May 2023 ).
Graduates of architectural engineering courses at Reading, with our focus on sustainable energy and environmental engineering, will be well placed to pursue a career in a wide range of roles including:
Our multidisciplinary approach, which reflects collaborative ways of working within the industry, is designed to enable you to develop the skills and knowledge you need to be successful in your career.
Our strong relationships with a global network of industry, employers, and alumni will support you to develop contacts and identify opportunities that are the right fit for your interests.
Every year you will have the opportunity to attend the Built Environment Careers Fair, enabling you to connect with employers – and employers to connect with you.
Reading University Construction Society The Reading University Construction Society (RUCS) is our social and cultural hub.
It runs an exciting range of events where you’ll have opportunities to build professional relationships as well as friendships.
Leading employers and professional institutions attend many of the Society’s events to give talks and meet students, allowing you to increase your employability and knowledge as well as empowering you to build a personal network of contacts.
A number of industry leaders are corporate members of RUCS, including Turner & Townsend, Malcolm Hollis, and Alinea.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architectural-engineering-ug/meng-architectural-engineering:
Our four-year MEng Architectural Engineering course equips you with the design and engineering skills to develop sustainable solutions to problems in the built environment.
Our MEng Architectural Engineering programme offers a grounding in the fundamental principles of architectural engineering, including:
In choosing the four-year MEng programme, you will develop a thorough understanding of renewable energy technologies, urban microclimates and energy management.
This will provide you with a holistic approach to designing a sustainable built environment for the future.
We are currently engaging with the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) and Energy Institute (EI) to work towards accreditation of the programme.
Our MEng Architectural Engineering course offers the opportunity to undertake a paid industrial placement year, or a summer placement.
As part of the cohort joining the MEng Architectural Engineering course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the four years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
Work individually and in groups to design a net zero building and its building services in a lifelike design project.
You'll apply architectural design skills, as well as acquired knowledge about low/zero carbon and resource-efficient design.
By selecting this module, you will transfer onto our five-year MEng (Hons) Architectural Engineering with a Year in Industry course, completing a year-long placement between your third and final year.
Develop a deeper understanding of the workings of construction and acquire vital knowledge of your chosen subject as you develop key professional and technical skills, critically reflect on practice, conduct reports, and give presentations.
Learn the technical, environmental and social issues associated with renewable energy technologies, such as biomass, solar, wind, and hydro (including marine energy).
As well as technical, environment, and social issues, you'll consider the barriers and issues limiting widespread use of renewable energy sources.
Learn the basic physics and current advancements related to the urban micro climate, including urban fluid mechanics, energy balance, and solar radiation.
You’ll study how urban surroundings interact with buildings, including the principles or urban climate planning, the gap between design and in-use performances, and ICT and sensor energy monitoring and management.
Develop the necessary understanding, knowledge and skills to formulate research problems.
You’ll learn to develop and apply appropriate investigative approaches, interpret data, and present findings in preparation for your dissertation.
Embark on an in-depth, self-led research project relating to an area of architectural engineering, with support from your supervisor.
Examine the role of managing the carbon dioxide emissions of countries, businesses, individuals and communities to mitigate climate change.
Explore policy tools for achieving carbon reduction, the role of the energy supply system, technological options for carbon sequestration, community action, and the Life Cycle Assessment.
Examine the relationship between people, technologies, and the information that circulates in built environment practice.
You'll review current research and applications of digital and interactive technologies, evaluate the rationale for their use, and explore innovative approaches to support users.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/beng-architectural-engineering-ifp-september:
BEng Architectural Engineering with International Foundation Year for international students
If you want to study architectural engineering at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BEng Architectural Engineering with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate architectural engineering degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BEng Architectural Engineering degree.
Develop the knowledge and skills necessary to embark on a research proposal in preparation for undertaking your dissertation.
You will gain key research skills as you develop your ideas and implement relevant research methods with the support of lectures, group tasks and hands-on activities.
Graduates from our BEng Architectural Engineering course will be well placed to pursue an impressive career in a wide range of roles, such as:
Graduates of architectural engineering courses at Reading, with our focus on sustainable energy and environmental engineering, will be well placed to pursue a career in a wide range of roles including: energy engineer, building designer, facility manger/engineer, project manager, construction manager.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/subject-area/architecture-pg/master-of-architecture:
Join a new generation of architects with our Master of Architecture (MArch) course.
At the University of Reading, you’ll study architecture in a UK professional context, but with a global outlook.
You’ll examine the role of architecture in a rapidly urbanising world – in cultural, social and environmental contexts – where new approaches are needed.
Many schools of architecture focus on innovation in physical form and communication.
At Reading, we stand out by also focusing on innovation in use.
We explore the possibilities a new structure or space can provide for a community to engage with its surroundings – to inspire different ways of thinking and behaving.
Our curriculum draws on expertise from architecture, urban planning, social sciences, art and related disciplines.
Through your studies at Reading, you’ll engage with the rich, varied and interconnected nature of design in the UK.
We have worked closely with industry partners to ensure that our curriculum is responsive to the ever-changing forms and expectations of the architectural profession.
At Reading School of Architecture , your postgraduate studies will focus on four core strands of architectural practice:
These core strands will provide a framework for you to:
You’ll also have the opportunity to choose from a series of optional modules, including related modules in built environment subject specialisms.
These modules will broaden your knowledge of the industry and foster cross-disciplinary exchanges.
Our Master of Architecture (MArch) course is delivered in collaboration with our Urban Living research group , with particular strengths in societal interactions and social innovations.
The course is further informed by our industry partners.
You’ll benefit from our expertise in a range of subjects related to urban living, including:
We will support you to become an innovative designer and an active researcher with a formidable skill set.
You will gain the knowledge and expertise to:
The University of Reading has an excellent reputation for research in architecture, the built environment and planning:
At Reading School of Architecture, we are committed to delivering an excellent research-led education.
Our MArch course is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) ; this is formal recognition from RIBA that our course achieves the master’s-level standards   required to prepare you for a career in architecture.
The Architects Registration Board (ARB) has also prescribed our Master of Architecture as a Part 2 course under the Architects Act 1997 until December 2028.
Our School of Architecture offers a vibrant, diverse community of staff and students.
At Reading, we are passionate about using our architectural talent and knowledge to make a positive difference in the world
Our entire team contributes to studio teaching and to lecture-based modules.
This creates an environment that stimulates discussion and demonstrates the cross-currents of thinking around design, histories, theories, and technologies.
You will learn through a combination of taught lectures, seminars and workshops.
You’ll further develop your professional and creative skills in the design studio, and through reviews of your work.
As well as teaching you the tools and techniques used in architectural practice and research, we foster a culture of drawing, making and the theories behind these.
Your lectures will support studio teaching, providing you with insights into key concepts, methods and theories that will inform your design work.
Review sessions, or critiques (crits), allow you to present your ideas to your peers, academics, and external practitioners for feedback on design projects.
You'll develop your creative skills through regular workshops.
These will focus on digital and visualisation technologies, alongside traditional fabrication and representation methods and techniques.
Workshops will enable you to explore:
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from specialist facilities in the School of Architecture, including:
Our London Road campus also offers beautiful and expansive green spaces, providing an excellent test ground for structures, events and performances.
You'll gain practical experience through field classes, allowing you to study architecture in context and connect with external parties.
You will also have the opportunity to engage with different communities, enabling you to better understand the relationship between community and architecture.
In addition, you'll benefit from guest lectures led by innovative and experimental architects and construction specialists.
These lectures offer valuable insight into the industry and an opportunity to build your professional network.
In drawing, making and discussing ideas, architecture students have traditionally benefitted enormously from working together.
You’ll have the opportunity to do this between your formally delivered sessions, in dedicated personal spaces in studios and in workshop spaces.
The experience of working with, and alongside, your peers will prepare you for the studio-like working environment of architects' offices.
It also offers a valuable social experience.
At Reading, we offer an engaging and collaborative environment.
You'll join an enthusiastic and highly motivated community of students and staff.
Showcase your project and design work to industry at our End of Year Show.
This joyful event provides excellent networking opportunities, and could lead to placements, work experience, or jobs after graduation.
Our MArch course offers the opportunity to undertake a credit-bearing period of practical training.
You’ll be required to find and secure work experience, with the support of the University and in agreement with your Programme Director.
As part of your practical training, you may also have the opportunity to gain teaching experience.
This will enable you to engage with various teaching and learning styles of studio architecture.
If you hold a first-class honours degree, you could secure a scholarship worth £1,000 for each year of our MArch course.
We also offer a 20% reduction in annual tuition fees for our alumni.
Learn more about scholarships and funding:
Entry requirements: You must have achieved a 2:2 or higher on a Part 1 ARB validated (prescribed) award.
If you hold a qualification obtained outside the EU, or a non-recognised UK qualification, you will need to pass ARB’s own Prescribed Examination at the relevant level to be eligible for this programme.
Information about the procedures and eligibility criteria for ARB examination at Part 1 are available on the ARB website .
You must also submit a sample portfolio (max.
10MB) as part of your application, showing evidence of your creative ability, problem-solving skills, architectural knowledge and potential for postgraduate study.
If you are invited to interview you will be able to present a full portfolio.
IELTS: Overall 6.5 with no element less than 5.5 (or equivalent).
Pre-sessional English language Programme
Our Pre-sessional English Programme is for international students who need to meet their degree programme English language requirements.
Our courses equip you with the skills and language needed for academic success, including critical thinking, self-reflection, learner autonomy, research skills and integrating sources.
The Pre-sessional English Programme is accredited by the British Association of Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes (BALEAP) , which guarantees you will receive a high-quality student experience.
To find out more, visit Pre-sessional English .
The number of places are limited and early application is recommended.
As part of the application process for acceptance onto the Master of Architecture course, you must submit a sample portfolio (maximum 10MB in file size) when you submit your online application.
Your invitation to interview will be based on the sample portfolio you provide.
Apply now using our online application service .
For further information on the application process, visit our how to apply page .
Apply design skills and knowledge to projects of increasing complexity, from developing design research methods to exploring new forms of architectural production and practice.
As well as gaining expertise in site analysis, brief development, material studies and site precedent studies, you’ll develop critical responses to current architectural issues and design solutions.
Gain practical understanding of how established research techniques are used to create, develop, evaluate and communicate design proposals, and develop a systematic, creative, integrated approach to architectural design.
Explore the core principles of architectural technology and its practical applications, including the environmental and socio-cultural implications of design and specification.
You’ll acquire key skills to address issues of environmental, social, economic and cultural resilience, as well as climate change.
Examine the holistic and transdisciplinary role of the architect in relation to architectural practice and the wider built environment industry.
Learn more about the academic, professional and pedagogical contexts in which architects work, across aspects such as construction procurement processes, ethics, research literacy, architectural practice management, legal frameworks, and education.
Explore approaches that implement socio-technical systems into the built environment, including the use of Building Modelling (BIM).
You'll address how the potential for BIM rests on the unverstanding of how socio-technical systems are supported.
Sharpen your skills by engaging with the built environment using digital tools and technologies, and processing the data produced.
You'll examine the relationship between people, technologies and information in built environment practice, by blending social science methods with modern digital technologies to learn how to analyse the built environment from a human perspective.
Evaluate interactions between the urban atmosphere, urban form, and function, and review how energy monitoring and management offers energy-saving potential.
This will advance your knowledge and understanding of urban microclimates and ICT energy management.
Develop a comprehensive, independent design project grounded in your own research and accompanied by a technical report.
Apply your integrated design, research and professional skills to architectural practice or industry-relevant environments, gaining valuable insight into the context of the architect and workplace requirements.
Develop a dissertation topic in an area of architecture that interests you, such as architectural history and theory, design science, tectonic studies, sustainability, urban and building design or creative practices.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students:
            The fee cap for 2026/27 has not yet been communicated by the UK government.
For the 2025/26 entry, the fee was £9,250.
The tuition fee shall be set no higher than the maximum amount of tuition fees that an institution may charge, based on rules set by the UK Government.
After your first year, the fee will increase in line with inflation (up to 4%) and will be rounded up to the nearest £50.
New international students: £31,650 for 2026/27, then fees will increase each year according to inflation (up to 4%) and will be rounded up to the nearest £50 for 2026/27, then fees will increase each year according to inflation (up to 4%) and will be rounded up to the nearest £50.
The fees listed are for full-time study, unless otherwise stated.
Fee information will be confirmed in offer letters sent out to successful applicants.
You can find further information, including information for part-time study, through our dedicated fees and funding page .
With effect from 1 August 2021, new EU students will pay international tuition fees.
For exceptions, please read the UK government’s guidance for EU students .
Our MArch course provides the key creative, technical and professional skills required for a career in architecture.
Our research-led education prepares you to enter the world of work as a reflective practitioner or practitioner researcher.
In addition, the course offers a strong foundation in research methods, which will prepare you for PhD study in traditional and practice modes in architecture and related disciplines.
On completion of this course you will be required to complete a period of professional experience, as well as Professional Studies (Part 3) and the related examination, to be eligible to achieve statutory registered status as a UK architect.
Our Master of Architecture has been prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/architecture-ug/bsc-architecture:
Start your journey to becoming an architect with our BSc Architecture course, guided by academics and professionals at the University of Reading.
At the School of Architecture , we have an internationally diverse team of creative, experienced, and innovative practising architects.
Under their guidance, you’ll apply imagination and innovation to create sustainable environments, enhance community wellbeing, and leave a lasting positive legacy.
Through individual and design studio projects, and lectures, you’ll deepen your understanding of core subjects and enhance your practical and creative skills.
The Architects Registration Board (ARB) has prescribed BSc (Hons) Architecture as a Part 1 course under the Architects Act 1997 until December 2027 (after this, normal practice is that accreditation is reviewed periodically).
The course is also validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA); formal recognition that our course achieves the undergraduate-level standards needed to prepare students for the professional practice of architecture.
At Reading, we provide a dynamic learning environment shaped by research, professional practice, and strong industry connections.
Unusually, our entire team contributes to teaching and their expertise ensures the high-quality of your learning.
We foster discussions linking design, history, theory, technology, and professional opportunities.
These disciplines are essential for creating socially valuable architecture.
We have established connections and partnerships, including Ayre Chamberlain Gaunt and Allies and Morrison, to boost your networking opportunities.
You’ll collaborate with your peers on imaginative design projects, participate in lively discussions about designing responsibly, and hone your critical thinking and creative techniques in our studios and workshops.
Overall, 97% of our students said the course often challenges them to achieve their best work (National Student Survey 2025, 97.1% of responders from the School of Architecture).
You’ll have seven-day-a-week access to your own designated desk and creative space in a secure design studio.
This dedicated workspace allows you to work uninterrupted on your projects, with no need to pack up at the end of each day – ensuring a more efficient and immersive way of working.
You will also benefit from specialised workshops:
Our programme blends design studio projects and lecture-based learning for a well-rounded architectural education.
You will:
Additionally, design tutorials will prepare you to respond to societal, environmental and technological challenges in the architectural profession.
In your final year, you’ll be able to showcase your work, including drawings, physical models, and computer-generated images, at our End of Year Show.
Our course is designed to enhance your employability through opportunities to work on real projects with established architects, including through our Industry and Practice module.
Past graduates have secured placements at practices like:
Career and application support is available to help you secure summer internships and work experience.
You’ll also have access to other career development opportunities.
Additionally, you can join the student-run Architecture Society to network, develop ideas, and participate in social events.
Gain a solid grounding of practical and professional skills required in architecture.
As well as extending understanding and concept application, you’ll use manual making and computer-based tools to explore designs for different projects, and develop your graphical, spatial and communication skills.
Examine the history and theory that informs architectural thinking, including the development of cities and how an understanding of culture and society relates to archi tec t ure and design studio work.
By considering examples of architecture worldwid e, you ’ll develop an understanding of local issues across different climates an d societies.
Explore architectural design, working in a studio, and the idea of ‘place ’.
You’ll consider design in different contexts, architectural agency and responsibility in relation to environmental issues and t hree-dimensional thinking about space and form.
Discover the materials, structures, technologies, environmental sciences and services used to design buildings, examining these in relation to buildings of various sizes and considering their environmental resilience.
Develop your understanding of ‘site’ and architecture in context.
Applying skills and knowledge gained in your first year, you’ll explore your design capa bilities and further develop your sketching, drawing and model-making skills.
Develop your understanding of the business and realisation of projects in arch ite cture, increasing your awareness of how architecture functions and the key roles of participants.
Topics include project management, legal and contractual frameworks, procurement practices, government po licy, the changing role of the architect, professionalism and institutions.
Develop your knowledge of materials, structure, technology, environmental science and services for designing buildings, considering the ethics, regulations and standards related to the science and technology of architecture.
Emphasis is placed on complex buildings, environmental resilience and the relationship between humans and society.
Apply and develop your architectural skills to projects of greater complexity, refine your drawing, model-making and digital technology skills.
Explore how architecture responds to different contexts across civilisations and societies , with a particular focus on scale of buildings, groups of buildings, neighbourhoods and communities.
Use the studio environment to extend your learning so far as your explore and develop your design capabilities.
All architecture and design is informed by research and understanding of historical culture and societal issues related to the built environment.
Choose from a range of topics related to architecture and produce a piece of critical writing on that subject that will inform your subsequent studio work.
Explore the academic study of architecture and forms of practice.
Testing the definition of design practice, you’ll develop reflective approaches to design using different materials , media and equipment and debating the related opportunities and priorities that inform your personal attitudes, critical thin king and design practice.
Refine your design skills and creativity, utilise key skills and digital technologies to further explore and develop your design capabilities.
Acquire the core skills and knowledge that underpin the delivery of projects and realisation of buildings in professional practice.
Through practical application and integration, you’ll explore topics spanning construction technology, project delivery and project management.
Apply your learning and design capabilities to projects of increasing complexity in the studio environment.
Our graduates are well-placed to further their training as an architect and complete their qualification with our two-year Master of Architecture (MArch) .
Alternatively, you can pursue careers in:
Industries such as gaming and visual communication also offer exciting opportunities.
100% of graduates from Architecture at Reading are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Surveys 2022/23; includes all Architecture responders).
The University of Reading also ranks 2nd for graduate salary for architecture, building and planning after five years; the average salary calculated at £51,100 is over £14,000 more than the average graduate salary after five years for this subject across all universities (Telegraph analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, published in June 2025).
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2021-2025, Graduate Outcomes Surveys 2018/19-2022/23; includes all first degree responders from the School of Architecture).
Applicants should demonstrate both an interest in the wider social and ecological questions facing architecture today and in the varied ways that we experience our surroundings.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-fine-art:
Develop as an artist, refine your own practice, explore new and emerging art forms, and take part in a wide variety of exhibitions and events – both in the UK and abroad – with our BA Fine Art degree.
At Reading School of Art , you'll have the opportunity to:
In this three-year course, you’ll experiment with a range of subjects and media, exploring painting, sculpture (such as welding and casting), and printmaking, as well as digital media.
This combination of practice and critical reflection will enable you to develop, articulate and sustain your own creative practice.
We rank in the top 100 for Arts and Humanities globally (joint 92) and 21 in the UK ( QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025 ).
University of Reading ranks 7th in the UK for graduate salary for Creative Arts (based on The Telegraph's analysis of DfE data on the earnings of first degree graduates after five years from English Higher Education Institutions, June 2025).
At Reading, we also offer a four-year BA Art degree , designed for students that have A-levels or other post-16 qualifications but have not studied a foundation diploma in Art and Design.
BA Art also allows you to explore modules in other creative fields or wider university subjects.
Please contact us if you require advice on which course is most suitable for you.
Our studios offer a creative, lively and stimulating environment in which to develop the skills you’ve already acquired.
As well as your own dedicated studio space, that you can access 24 hours a day, seven days a week, There's always a high level of activity in the studios with events, workshops to help you explore different media, screenings, performances, and exhibitions taking place regularly.
Our new School of Art building opened in September 2023 and is the perfect spot for exploring different media in our workshops and exhibiting your work whist being near the centre of our Whiteknights campus.
Our staff are actively involved in the arts and highly connected with the creative world beyond the University, meaning you’ll be exposed to a wide range of experience, expertise and career opportunities.
You’ll be assigned a studio tutor who will help you focus on developing your individual and professional practice, working towards your final project and dissertation in the third year.
92% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 91.7% of responders from Reading School of Art).
You’ll also gain professional experience by taking part in your own exhibitions, public art commissions and events.
Open debate and constructive criticism are actively encouraged, and you’ll learn to confidently and openly discuss your work with peers and teaching staff.
The degree is structured into three parts.
Throughout each, you’ll receive training and academic guidance to help you grow as an artist and deepen your expertise.
In particular, Part 2 and 3 allow you to focus on your own individual study path and play to your interests and strengths, as you engage in a choice of complementary modules, a comprehensive exhibition, and a written dissertation.
The course is designed to further your skills, both critically and practically.
You’ll learn to:
Our practice-based assessment methods provide inclusive and diverse combinations that enable you to demonstrate your skills and knowledge relevant to your individual creative practice and strengths.
You’ll be assessed via a range of methods, including:
As well as taking advantage of Reading School of Art’s partnerships , you’ll be encouraged to undertake placement opportunities and work with different artists and designers at events and exhibitions.
Past students have undertaken internships at Studio Voltaire and Frieze Art Fair, performed at the ICA, taken part in an Arts Council-supported film project at the Museum of English Rural Life, and participated in an international exhibition at the Seoul Institute of Arts in South Korea.
Others have participated in external exhibitions such as Urban Utopia, a partnership between Fine Art and Deutsche Bank where 35 students curated their work in the new Capitol building, Bracknell, and an exhibition at the Beaconsfield Gallery in London.
You’ll also have the chance to experience life in another country and apply to study abroad.
Reading School of Art has links with universities in countries such as the USA, Canada, Australia, Taiwan, France, Switzerland, and Finland.
24 points with Art at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Art, Fine Art, Art & Design, Photography, Graphic Design, Fashion/Textile Design
Art Studio
Discover contemporary art and its global histories, models of practices, and practical and professional skills.
You’ll learn the codes of good practice, health and safety, and sustainability in the studio, while producing and presenting artworks that develop your reflective and analytical skills.
Drawing
Expand your drawing competence and skill set as you discover a range of different methods, techniques, materials and tools, applying your enhanced proficiency to different contexts and subject specialisms.
History of Art 1
Investigate the diversity of practices and theories that constitute the field of global art and its historicisation in the first half of the 20th century.
You’ll study a variety of perspectives, theories and accounts of the development of modernity, as well as their social, geo-political and aesthetic factors.
History of Art 2
Investigate the diversity of practices and theories that constitute the field of global art and its historicisation throughout the late 20th century and early 21st century.
You will consider artists and their works alongside a variety of perspectives and theories of different art periods and their social and geo-political factors.
You’ll study a variety of perspectives, theories and accounts of different art periods, as well as their social, geo-political and aesthetic factors, and explore narratives that shaped art practice.
Art Practice 1
Engage with a chosen specialism such as painting, printmaking, sculpture or video as you explore the different areas of production and traditions of art practices.
You’ll gain knowledge on their histories and debate their contemporary relevance as you conduct self-led experimentation and develop your practical skills and material understanding.
Art Studio 2b
Learn to identify and investigate your own interests and concerns through practical engagement in the studio.
You’ll develop your capacity for self-criticism through informed debate, as well as your confidence and the ability to present exhibitions.
Situated Art Practice
Shape your understanding of the global and historical diversity of models in artistic practices.
You’ll realise your active role as an artist in shaping and being shaped by the world as you apply key research methods and present your material an appropriate format.
History of Art 3
Explore different forms of art writing, from criticism and visual analysis to interpretation and digital culture.
You’ll consider how art history shapes our world and is shaped by our world, as you develop your research and communication skills and reflect critically on the different purposes of art writing.
Art Practice 4
Engage in-depth with the areas of production, and traditions of art practices, that have formed in the global histories of art.
Within a chosen specialism, examine specific histories and debate their contemporary relevance while developing practical skills and material understanding through guided demonstrations and self-led experimentation.
Independent Study with Work Placement
Gain real-world experience through intensive investigation of an organisation, museum or gallery.
You’ll engage as an active and responsible learner, managing your own work schedule and developing organisational skills that enhance your independence and self-motivation.
International Study 2
Embark on a supervised study visit to a major European art centre where you will encounter and experience contemporary art and art history first hand.
You will visit major museums, galleries, and collections as you enhance your understanding of art history beyond an academic context.
Recent visits have included Madrid, Berlin, Paris and Venice.
Art Practice 5
Master art techniques, processes and related materials with skill and imagination as you consider a chosen specialism and its place in the global histories of art.
You’ll integrate experimentation, innovation, safety and sustainability as you practice, and learn how to interpret the relationship between understanding and practice.
History of Art 6
Develop a critical understanding of a range of historical and philosophical problems that emerge from contemporary art and evaluate the potential solutions.
Alongside this, deepen your critical understanding of aesthetic and advance your research skills as you format an essay that evaluates the problems and solutions associated with contemporary art from an independent critical position.
Art Studio 3
Challenge yourself by developing an independent, creative and critically informed art practice as you advance your own interests and concerns through practical engagement in the studio.
Expand your research skills in relation to your individual art practice, and in the understanding of both historical and contemporary practices of art.
Art Dissertation
Develop a critical understanding of a range of historical and philosophical problems that emerge from contemporary art.
Your own research project will explore a specific problem of contemporary art related to studio practice, and evaluate solutions to such historical, theoretical and practical problems.
Overall, 90% of graduates from Art are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (Based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all Art responders).
As well as the practical experience gained on this degree, you’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills, such as self-motivation, time management, and strategic thinking.
Many of our graduates develop successful careers as artists, writers and curators.
These include a few famous alumni, such as Turner Prize-nominated artists, and PhD students who are award-winning artists and curators at influential museums.
Other graduates have found employment in galleries, education, art therapy, and film and video production.
Past UG graduates from the Art department at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes Art Responders).
Alternatively, you can choose to further develop your skills by moving into research, teacher training, or postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art:
Develop as an artist, refine your own practice, explore new and emerging art forms, and take part in a wide variety of exhibitions and events with our BA Art degree.
Our four-year course is ideal if you haven’t studied a foundation year and need an extra year mid-course to develop your independent creative practice before your degree show and dissertation.
Under the guidance of our teaching staff at Reading School of Art , you'll have the opportunity to:
The course provides you with the tools to develop, make and present your artwork.
It fosters your investigative, critically reflective and independent learning through the study and discussion of contemporary art and its histories.
The combination of making and critical reflection enables you to develop and articulate your own creative position.
At Reading, we also offer a three-year BA Fine Art degree .
During your first, foundational year, you’ll explore the processes and practicalities of an artist’s studio while starting to develop an independent project leading to an exhibition.
You’ll also be introduced to the field of art history and its study, as well as wider contexts in which contemporary art practices operate.
As your studies progress, you’ll have the opportunity to expand your interests and knowledge.
While familiarising yourself with global art discourses and the critiques in which contemporary art is situated, you’ll carry out increasingly independent studio work.
With additional time, space and support to further develop, refine, and establish your intellectual and technical skills, you’ll consolidate your interests into independent research and inquiry, preparing for your final year dissertation and comprehensive exhibition.
Our new School of Art building opened in September 2023.
It’s the perfect spot for exploring different media in our workshops and exhibiting your work whist being near the centre of our Whiteknights campus.
Our facilities feature:
The studios offer a creative, lively and stimulating environment in which to develop your skills with events, workshops to help you explore different media, screenings, performances and exhibitions taking place regularly.
Studying at the Reading School of Art allows you to explore a vast range of media and experiment with emerging art forms.
Over the course of your four years of study, you will:
Open debate and constructive criticism are actively encouraged, and you’ll learn to confidently discuss your work with peers and teaching staff.
In particular, Parts 2 and 3 allow you to focus on your own individual study path and play to your interests and strengths, as you engage in a choice of complementary modules, a comprehensive exhibition, and a written dissertation.
You may have the opportunity to undertake a placement forming all or part of an optional module.
Past students have:
You may have the chance to experience life in another country and apply to study abroad for a semester during your third year.
To see which institutions participate in this scheme please use our “ Find a University ” tool.
Please note our partners may change and the tool is updated each year.
MMP
Art Studio 1 will introduce you to contemporary art and its global histories, models of practices and practical and professional skills.
You will learn the codes of good practice, Health & Safety and sustainability in the studio while being given the opportunity to produce and present artworks that help develop your critically reflective and analytical skills.
Expand your drawing competence as you are introduced to a range of different methods, techniques, materials and tools.
You will equip a growing range of drawing skills as you develop your ability to choose between them to apply your enhanced proficiency to different contexts and subject specialisms.
You will also research diverse practices and theories that constitute the field of global art and its histories.
Through visual analysis, you will produce a journal reflecting on the themes covered each week.
You will be introduced to the diversity of practices and theories that constitute the field of global art and its historicization in the first half of the 20th century.
You will study a variety of perspectives, theories and accounts of the development of modernity and their social, geo-political and aesthetic factors.
You will be introduced to the diversity of practices and theories that constitute in the field of global art and its historicization in late 20th century/early 21st century.
You will explore narratives in which a wide range of art practices were shaped.
Expand your competence in drawing as you are introduced to a variety of different methods, techniques, materials and tools.
You will become equipped with a growing range of drawing skills and develop your ability to choose between them in different contexts and subject specialisms.
You can study a module from outside your department to enhance your learning.
Options include subjects such as making and using typefaces, climate change, wildlife documentary, forensic archaeology, US foreign policy, leadership skills, and many more.
Alternatively, you can learn one of the ten languages offered by the University at a level appropriate for you.
Explore different forms of art writing from criticism and visual analysis to interpretation to digital culture.
You will consider how Art History shapes and is shaped as you develop your research and communication skills and reflect critically on the different purposes of art writing.
Engage in-depth with a chosen specialism from options including painting, printmaking, sculpture or video.
You will gain knowledge on your disciplines specific histories and debate their contemporary relevance as you are guided through demonstrations and self-led experimentation that will develop your practical skills and material understanding.
You will master real-world practices in creative industries as you employ skilful and imaginative competence in art techniques, materials and ideas and explore their histories.
Consider your own artistic concerns in relation to the experiences of visiting speakers.
You will become equipped with the knowledge to analyse contemporary ideas, practices and discourses through discussion and theoretical research as you develop an understanding between first-hand account, archival resource and theoretical research.
Learn how to identify and investigate your own interests and concerns through practical engagement in the studio.
You will develop your capacity for self-criticism through informed debate alongside your confidence and the ability to present exhibitions.
As you work, you will realise your active role as an artist in shaping and being shaped by the world as you effectively apply research methods to your material and present in an appropriate format.
You will be provided with a rigorous critical forum to consider your own artistic concerns in relation to the experiences of visiting speakers.
You will be equipped with the knowledge to compare a range of contemporary ideas, practices and discourses as you develop your communication skills and an understanding of the relationship between first-hand account, archival resource and theoretical research.
Engage in-depth with the areas of production and traditions of art practices that have formed in the global histories of art.
Within a chosen specialism, you will examine specific histories and debate their contemporary relevance while developing practical skills and material understanding through guided demonstrations and self-led experimentation.
Gain real world experiences developed through intensive investigation into an organisation, museum, or gallery.
You will engage as an active and responsible learner, managing your own work schedule and organisation talent that will allow you to nourish your independence and self-motivation.
You will also develop a critical understanding of aesthetic and advance your research skills as you format an essay that evaluates the problems and solutions associated with contemporary art from an independent critical position.
Further develop your independent, creative and informed art practice, exploring your individual interests in greater depth through practical engagement in the studio and workshops.
Your learning will be supported by tutorials, group critiques, material sessions, seminars, exhibitions, and visiting artist lectures.
Produce a sustained, in-depth study into contemporary art and aesthetics, researching a specific area that relates to studio practice and forming a coherent argument or critical position.
96.30% of graduates from Reading School of Art are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22 includes first degree Art responders).
As well as the practical experience gained on this degree, you’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills, such as self-motivation, time management and strategic thinking.
These include a number of famous alumni, such as Turner Prize-nominated artists, and PhD students who are award-winning artists and curators at influential museums.
Others have found employment in galleries, education, art therapy, film and video production, journalism, advertising, and teaching.
Recent employers include:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-creative-writing:
Develop as an artist, curator and writer with our BA Art and Creative Writing degree.
This University of Reading programme brings together creative practice in art and writing with academic knowledge, under the guidance of staff from Reading School of Art and the Department of English Literature .
This four-year joint degree is designed to help you become a skilful, informed, and thoughtful creator through:
At Reading School of Art, you'll have access to a dedicated studio space, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, and you’ll be assigned a studio tutor to help develop your individual and professional practice.
There's always a high level of activity in the studios with events, screenings, performances and exhibitions taking place regularly.
Our teaching staff are all artists and curators highly connected with the creative world beyond the University, and strongly encourage regular exhibitions and open debate.
You will complement your practical art with modules in contemporary art theory and the history of art.
Through the lectures, seminars and studio teaching – as well as weekly visiting artist talks – you will be exposed to the language, vocabulary and debates that have emerged historically and evolved to forge contemporary art.
For your art modules, you will have access to our range of facilities.
In art, you’ll explore a vast range of media, experimenting with emerging art forms and developing as an artist.
Trips to museums and art galleries will help prompt thoughts on how art is displayed and received, and you’ll gain professional experience by taking part in your own exhibitions, public art commissions and events.
Your teaching staff are artists, curators and researchers of international standing and will encourage regular exhibitions and open debate.
In creative writing, you’ll explore literature creatively as you develop characters, shape poems, and draw on your imagination.
You will learn from prize-winning authors and academics who are committed to teaching through the workshop model.
These small group sessions are the heart of Reading’s writing community: guided by one of our lecturers, you and your fellow students will gain confidence as you share your writing and help each other improve.
You will also have the opportunity to publish your work – and gain experience in editing and publishing – by participating in our online creative magazine .
Our course plays a vital role in connecting how people understand and shape the world.
As such, sustainability, accessibility and social engagement are embedded throughout your studies.
You will be encouraged to undertake academic placements during your studies.
The Department of English Literature has an innovative placement scheme , and previous art students have:
24 points, including  HL4 in an English-related subject, plus Art (specific grade not required) at higher level
English subjects : English Language/Literature, English Lang & Lit, Drama and Theatre Studies, Creative Writing.
Art subjects : Art, Fine Art, Art & Design, Photography, Graphic Design, Fashion/Textile Design
Introduction to Creative Writing
Develop your skills in creative writing across a range of genres.
You will develop an understanding of how to compose, criticise, revise, and polish your work through workshop discussions and the completion of a critical essay.
Poetry in English
From the Renaissance to the present, uncover the history of poetry as you explore key genres related to love, politics, pastoral, elegy, satire, the sonnet, the ode, and the dramatic monologue.
You’ll study poems drawn from the wider English-speaking world including Ireland, the Caribbean and North America, encountering the diversity of voices found in gender and sexuality.
Introduction to Drama
Discover the genre of drama as you explore a historical range of texts from the early modern periods.
You’ll focus on four plays as you explore comedy, tragedy, form, structure, and the elements of change and continuity found within the genre.
Modern American Culture and Counterculture
Discover American countercultures in work, from 1950s Beat poetry to fiction responding to the Black Lives Matter movement.
You’ll study the perspectives of African-American, Native American and white American creatives in a variety of genres: poetry, short stories, YA fiction, science fiction, drama, songs, films, war reportage and the graphic novel.
Shelf Life
Become acquainted with English literature’s material dimension and how writers, both past and present, have depicted the library as a symbol.
As you study, you'll interpret poems, novels and plays, and investigate books and other archival documents as physical objects.
What is Comparative Literature?
Learn about the major critical and theoretical issues in the study of Comparative Literature, as well as the important methodologies for studying literature in a comparative context.
Approach a cluster of texts from different cultural and historical traditions, you'll be be encouraged to reflect on the practices and consequences of reading transnationally.
Thinking Translation: History and Theory
Learn about the current thinking on translation by exploring some specific case studies.
The historical approach to translation will allow you to develop a critical awareness of the role played by: genres, readership, institutional influences, market constraints, gender attitudes and discourses, purpose.
In seminars, you will explore the challenges facing translators when dealing with literary, scientific, philosophical and political texts
Engage critically with a range of poems and key debates around form.
You’ll write your own poetry in response, experimenting with the possibilities within the genre as you and your peers share constructive feedback.
International Study
Embark on a supervised study visit to a major European art centre where you’ll encounter and experience contemporary art and art history first hand.
Your trip will incorporate major museums, galleries, and collections as you enhance your understanding of art history beyond an academic context.
Creative Writing: Non-fiction
Study memoirs, essays, blog posts, long-form journalism, biography and auto-fiction as you explore the exciting and ever-evolving contemporary genre.
As you study these texts, you’ll write your own piece of creative non-fiction and support others with creative feedback.
Creative Writing: The Short Story
Explore the process of the creative cycle, from reading literature to writing it.
You’ll engage critically with a range of short stories as you encounter key debates about the form and write your own short fiction in response.
Myth, Legend and Romance: Medieval Storytelling
Explore storytelling in medieval England as you take in the fantastical tales of ancient heroes, drama that blends comedy and religious devotion, and magic and supernatural beings.
You’ll consider the stark contrast of narrative structure, character development and language use by medieval writers in contrast to our own.
Modernism in Poetry and Fiction
Examine the concepts of modernity, modernism, and the history of early twentieth-century poetry and fiction.
You’ll explore experimentation and innovation in poetic and narrative form, and their relation to wider social upheaval and cultural movements in the period.
Contemporary Fiction
Study a selection of fiction from the 1980s to the present day, exploring the formal, thematic and cultural diversity of Anglophone fiction produced in this period.
You’ll consider these texts within a number of social, political and historical contexts, such as multiculturalism, feminism and globalisation.
Writing in the Public Sphere
Study literature designed to prompt social and political change as you examine speeches, pamphlets, tracts and political posters from the early modern period to the present.
Consider how such literature shapes debates on race, class, religion, nationality and women’s rights across Britain and Ireland.
Critical Thinking
Approach familiar ideas and issues from unfamiliar angles that prompt you to re-examine the unspoken grounds on which common-sense ways of thinking are based.
You’ll take part in exciting and rewarding discussions on issues of language, power, and identity, ideology, gender, and race.
Early Modern Literature
Discover the rich and fascinating literary culture of the early modern or Renaissance period.
You'll explore the ways that English literature was shaped by, and helped to re-shape, English culture in the years between the Reformation and the Civil Wars.
The Business of Books
You'll cover the history and development of modern trade publishing and have focused sessions on some of its key players, including publishers and literary agents.
Through a combination of theoretical, methodological, and hands-on teaching sessions and workshops, you'll study the role and function of books in historical and institutional contexts including libraries, bookshops, publishing houses, and board rooms.
Writing America: Perspectives on the Nation
Examine the construction of American national identity in American literature from a range of different perspectives.
You’ll study a diversity of American voices and central themes including myths of the frontier, Manifest Destiny, personal and political liberty, and the construction of race, gender and sexuality.
Victorian literature consists of a period where authors began to consider people’s place in the world with God, the workings of the mind, and the role of class and gender in the construction of identity.
You’ll engage with these ideas as you consider some of the greatest works of the period – from Dickens and Hardy to Tennyson and Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Study the political revolutions that shook British society to its core during Age of Enlightenment (c.1680-1790): England’s bloodless ‘Glorious Revolution’ of 1688; the colonial revolution of American independence; and the French Revolution of 1789.
You'll develop your capacity for self-criticism through informed debate, as well as your confidence and ability to present exhibitions.
Creative Writing Master Class: Poetry
Develop and design a short collection of poems with a view to submit to print or an online magazine.
Engage with weekly workshops as you elaborate your style and voice, alongside focusing on emerging voices and subject matter.
Examine a range of British texts (poetry, drama, novels, short stories, films) by writers of Black and Asian descent.
You’ll read theoretical and historical material as you examine issues of cultural capital, national identity, and minority communities.
From Romance to Fantasy
Explore the role played by fantastical or wondrous elements in English literature from the middle ages to the present day.
Focus on a range of key narrative structures (such as the quest), persistent motifs such as magical objects, and influential modes, such as the gothic.
Deepen your understanding of narrative techniques and sharpen your ability to write prose.
You’ll use a range of short stories, narrative non-fiction and novel extracts as a springboard, advancing your knowledge on matters such as structure, characterisation, dialogue and quality.
Discover how literature engaged with mental health in the first half of the twentieth century, a crucial turning point in psychology.
You’ll consider the de-stigmatisation of mental health in the wake of World War I, the disciplines of psychiatry and psychology that emerged from it, and how literature engages with trauma, anxiety and obsession.
Explore issues surrounding children’s literature and its criticism.
Questions and analyse critical assumptions and formulations around authorship, memory, observation, readership, and identity.
Explore the representation of revenge and death in revenge tragedies performed on the Renaissance stage.
Analyse the staging of death scenes and whether there are differences in the ways that men and women die on stage.
Examine the movements of Austen’s characters through rooms and houses, the patterns of their dances in assembly halls, the paths of their journeys through town and country.
Investigate how these movements sometimes represent changes of heart or class, of mind or fortune and how they are always significant for the carefully drawn lines of her narratives.
Explore writing primarily by (but also about) women in the nineteenth century, including Christina Rossetti's Goblin Market and Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Aurora Leigh.
Ask how women found a voice in a predominantly patriarchal society, what subjects were deemed suitable for female poets, and how such poets overcame the limitations of expectation.
Trace the literary development of one of the most important and influential writers of the twentieth century through an intensive study of Joyce's experimental and influential novel Ulysses, and get an introduction to what is arguably the most challenging and wonderful book of the Twentieth Century, Finnegans Wake .
Discover the works of the ‘founding mother’ of classic literary feminism and connect her writing with our own era’s struggles, controversies and debates.
You’ll explore how contemporary Woolf’s stance is within the women’s autonomy debate, while also examining the controversial aspects of her writing.
Investigate British writing about ecology, the environment, and rural life, from the Romantic Period (c.1800) to the present day.
Study classic texts on the theory and science of climate change, sustainability, 'the wild', regenerative agriculture, and biodiversity.
Hands-on work with The Museum of English Rural Life's object collections will help you consider the connections material culture provides with our receding rural heritage.
Study key trends in poetry's engagement with changing circumstances in England, Wales, and Scotland in the twentieth century and beyond.
Consider issues including the aftermaths of modernism, gender and poetry, British poetry and post-war retrenchment, the 'poetry wars' of the 1970s and the perpetuation of 'Movement' ideals down to the present.
Explore lyric poetry from the Middle Ages and the renaissance.
You’ll look at the presentation of themes such as love and longing, grief, and the fear of death, and compare the ways in which authors make use of literary conventions to present such themes.
Engage with iconic texts in English literature, including Stoker's Dracula, Stevenson's Jekyll and Hyde, and Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray, while exploring what's meant by these terms 'decadence' and 'degeneration', calling, amongst many other things, on portrayals of 1890s' foppishness, Darwinian models of evolution, the emergent New Woman phenomenon, the Wilde trial, and the portrayal of prostitution.
Develop a sustained piece of independent writing such as a short story, a play, a screen play or a collection of verse.
You’ll work closely with a peer community of creative writers to self-organise and conduct workshops as you develop your advanced research and writing skills.
As a graduate of the BA Art and Creative Writing you will be equipped to sustain your practice as an artist and writer, to find employment within the creative industries or to continue to postgraduate study.
You will have acquired skills in close reading of texts and artworks, critical analysis, and experimentation.
You will be practiced at articulating ideas creatively and persuasively.
These skills will allow you to engage with confidence in professional and public discourse.
In your personal and working life they will enable you to look beyond immediate tasks and problems to wider social, cultural, civic, and global contexts.
You’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills, such as self-motivation, time management, and strategic thinking.
96.30% of graduates from Reading School of Art are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22 includes first degree Art responders).
96% of graduates from English Literature are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes first degree English Literature responders).
I found it so beneficial to be studying art with creative writing.
I think I've been able to bring an artistic perspective to my writing and vice versa, and to see how they interact with each other.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-english-literature:
With our BA Art and English Literature programme, you’ll engage in practical studio work, discover ideas and theories in contemporary art, and explore literature from every era and corner of the globe.
At the University of Reading, you’ll investigate how debates across the creative arts are reflected in dynamic ways across both art and literature, guided by staff from Reading School of Art and the Department of English Literature .
This four-year joint degree is designed to develop your expertise in both subjects, supporting your learning through:
Throughout your studies, you'll acquire skills in close reading of texts and artworks, critical analysis and experimentation, and become adept at articulating ideas creatively and persuasively.
In your personal and working life, they will enable you to look beyond immediate tasks and problems to wider social, cultural, civic, and global contexts.
In Art, you’ll explore a vast range of media, experimenting with emerging art forms and developing as an artist.
In English Literature, you will focus on authors and genres that you may already know (from Tragedy to Gothic, from Shakespeare and Dickens to Plath and Beckett).
You’ll also explore aspects of literary studies that may be less familiar to you, from Children’s Literature to Publishing Studies and the History of the Book, with your module choices becoming more diverse and specialised as you progress through your degree.
You’ll be taught in small groups through a mix of lectures and seminars in a friendly and supportive environment.
Everyone in the English Department, from new lecturers to professors, teaches at every level of the degree: this gives you the benefit of our expertise and makes you part of the conversation about our research and its impact outside the classroom.
Discover the key concepts that shape our understanding of literature from the perspective of composition and of critical work.
You will consider how writers are connected to other authors, editors and publishers as you articulate your own and others ideas in a portfolio of written work.
From the Renaissance to the present, you will uncover the history of poetry as you explore key genres related to love, politics, pastoral, elegy, satire, the sonnet, the ode, and the dramatic monologue.
You will study poems drawn from the wider English-speaking world including Ireland, the Caribbean and North America as you encounter the diversity of voices found in gender and sexuality.
You will focus on four plays as you explore comedy, tragedy, form, structure and the elements of change and continuity found within the genre.
Discover American countercultures in work from Beat poetry of the 1950s to fiction responding to the Black Lives Matter movement.
You will study the perspectives of African-American, Native American and white American creatives in a variety of genres: poetry, short stories, YA fiction, science fiction, drama, songs, films, war reportage and the graphic novel.
As you study, you will interpret poems, novels and plays as you investigate books and other archival documents as physical objects.
Explore storytelling in medieval England as you take in the fantastical tales of ancient heroes, drama that blends comedy and religious devotion and magic and supernatural beings.
You will consider the stark contrast of narrative structure, character development and language use by medieval writers in contrast to our own.
Examine the concepts of modernity and modernism and the history of early twentieth-century poetry and fiction.
You will explore experimentation and innovation in poetic and narrative form and their relation to wider social upheaval and cultural movements in the period.
Study a selection of fiction from the 1980s to the present day as you explore the formal, thematic and cultural diversity of Anglophone fiction produced in this period.
You will consider these texts against a number of social, political and historical contexts such as multiculturalism, feminism and globalisation.
Shape your understanding of the global and historical diversity of models in artistic.
Learn how magic and the supernatural play an important role in medieval English literature.
You’ll explore romances where questing knights arrive in uncanny fairy kingdoms or where King Arthur travels to Avalon.
You’ll discover the ways authors use other worlds to explore serious themes such as desire, death, gender and political authority.
Engage with iconic texts in English literature, including Stoker's Dracula , Stevenson's Jekyll and Hyde , and Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray , while exploring what's meant by these terms 'decadence' and 'degeneration', calling, amongst many other things, on portrayals of 1890s' foppishness, Darwinian models of evolution, the emergent New Woman phenomenon, the Wilde trial, and the portrayal of prostitution.
Explore the ways that Shakespeare’s plays have been changed and developed in cinema, and the ways early modern drama has been interpreted and appropriated by filmmakers in the twentieth- and twenty-first centuries.
You’ll learn the basics of film theory and gain an understanding of the cultural contexts which have led to these adaptations.
Complete a substantial work of literary-critical argument based on sustained independent research under the guidance of a supervisor.
Engage in depth with a topic of particular interest as you develop the skillset accumulated during your first three years of study.
As a BA Art and English Literature graduate, you will be equipped to sustain your practice as an artist and writer, to find employment within the creative industries or to continue to postgraduate study.
95% of graduates from the Department of English Literature are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23; includes first degree English Literature responders).
Alternatively, you can choose to further develop your skills by moving into research or teacher training.
What really drew me to Reading was the opportunities it offered with such a wide variety of courses you can take.
Going into uni I wanted to pursue a creative degree but didn’t want to have to give up my passion for English either.
Reading University has one of the broadest varieties of joint honours degree on offer, so I found out I didn’t have to.
ONCAMPUS Reading
International students can enrol on the Undergraduate Foundation Programme (UFP) in Art and Design with a guaranteed opportunity for progression to Art, Design, Film and Theatre degrees at the University of Reading.
To find out more, please visit the ONCAMPUS Reading website .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-film:
Discover films from the late nineteenth century to the modern day and develop your professional practice with help from internationally renowned artists and curators at Reading School of Art, with our BA Art and Film.
At the University of Reading, you’ll explore both the practical and theoretical sides of art and film and investigate how each discipline has influenced the other.
Led by staff from Reading School of Art and the Department of Film, Theatre and Television , you’ll hone your skills as a thoughtful, informed creator, gaining a meaningful expertise in both subjects.
You’ll be encouraged to investigate, critically reflect, and develop independent learning through the study, discussion and practice of contemporary art and filmmaking from a range of periods and cultural settings
During this four-year joint degree, you'll have the opportunity to:
The Reading’s School of Art is a hub for many kinds of activities, with events, screenings, performances and exhibitions taking place regularly.
You’ll also have access to the Minghella Studios, home of the Department of Film, Theatre and Television, where you’ll complement your theoretical learning with practical work.
The £11.4m building includes:
In art, you will join a lively and creative community, in which you will explore a vast range of media and experiment with emerging art forms.
You'll be assigned a studio space, accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and a studio tutor who will help you develop your individual and professional practice.
Regular trips to museums and art galleries will prompt thoughts on how art is displayed and received.
You will gain professional experience throughout your degree by taking part in your own exhibitions, public art commissions and events.
In film studies, you will choose from a range of modules covering world cinema, new forms of digital entertainment and video art, and the cinema of classical and contemporary Hollywood, such as musicals, melodrama, action cinema, and the films of Alfred Hitchcock.
You’ll familiarise with the academic study of film and moving image culture across a range of approaches and practices, instilling foundational terminology and key disciplinary debates.
You'll also have the opportunity to engage with the discipline both theoretically and practically, learning the scholarly protocol of formal essay-writing.
Reading is one of the fastest-growing screen industry hubs in the UK.
The University of Reading is a founding member of Screen Berkshire, a partnership between Berkshire based film production companies, studios and the University set up provide training and pathways to employment within the Film and Television industry.
By studying with us you will benefit from these connections and opportunities to enhance your industry related skills and experience.
You’ll interact with industry standard facilities and professional staff and be supported by our Business and Employability Manager dedicated to helping you develop your CV and find future employment within screen industry.
During your time here and once you’ll graduate, you’ll also benefit from the Screen Berkshire Freelance Network which hosts networking events for local freelance film and TV professionals and highlights employment opportunities.
You’ll also be close to Shinfield Studios (hosts to the recent filming for Netflix’s Bridgerton and Disney’s ‘Star Wars: The Acolyte’ and ‘Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire’) which are built on University of Reading land and part of the Screen Berkshire partnership.
The studios include 18 sound stages, a 9-acre filming backlot (for exterior sets for shooting), workshop facilities, sustainable facilities and production support facilities, such as post- production services.
The Screen Berkshire Partnership means you may have the opportunity to take part in lots of exiting opportunities at Shinfield Studios.
Critically interpret film texts and discover the conventions of fiction and non-fiction cinema.
Explore cinema as a diverse, global and transcultural medium, focusing on historical and cultural contexts.
Gain a critical understanding of central issues in television texts and fiction and non-fiction programming.
You’ll examine television forms and narratives, industrial contexts, digital platforms and new delivery technologies, as well as the role of the audience and public service broadcasting.
Gain insights into how comedy intersects with film, theatre and television through a series of case studies.
You’ll learn how humour highlights critical issues such as identity politics (gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, disability), taboo, embarrassment, cult, cancel or outrage culture, and explore relevant production, industrial and socio-cultural contexts.
Discover the history, traditions, practices, and theoretical and analytical perspectives of radical theatre-making and experimental performance practice.
You’ll learn to appreciate the cultural, political, and aesthetic significance of radical experimentation in theatre and performances, and express critical understanding of creative practice and risk-taking.
Discover the rich variety of film forms and explore critical and conceptual issues of form, including theoretical perspectives, questions of form, and form’s meaning and politics.
This module provides you with an opportunity for reflective learning and intensive research through an industry role of your choice.
You’ll reflect critically on your career development and acquire transferable skills for future employment.
Develop skills to critically analyse and produce non-fiction films and television through close analysis of texts and engagement with various industrial and technological contexts.
You’ll engage with critical debates and conceptual issues and put ideas into practice.
You’ll understand documentary-makers' creative decision-making and their connection to ideological concerns.
Engage with issues of genre, globalisation, industry, and representation.
You’ll examine the construction of critical and contextual frameworks that underpin television studies.
Explore television’s international flows, build a picture of national industrial practices, and analyse digital media practices and platforms.
You’ll develop a critical understanding of conventions and histories of selected genres and explore the implied impact of ideologies of representation.
Understand the construction, representation and performance of diverse modes of identity in theatre and in culture.
You’ll develop skills of close textual and performance analysis, and learn how local, national and global contexts have influenced playwrights, theatre makers and theatre cultures.
Understand Shakespeare as a powerful signifier of culture, explore adaptations of Shakespeare and learn how these relate to broader cultural and political contexts.
You’ll learn about the practices and preoccupations that currently affect the interpretation of Shakespeare and gain the ability to make connections between social and cultural concerns and their presentation on stage.
Critically explore theatre and performance design by engaging with historical and contemporary scenographic practices.
You’ll learn about the role of designers in shaping and reimagining theatre and performance.
You’ll advance the ways you read, see and encounter the visual, aural, spatial, material and technological elements of design.
Get involved in critical reading and discussions on a diverse range of international designers, methods and performance environments.
You’ll gain exposure to professional contexts through visits to archives, talks or masterclasses from visiting designers and/or scholars.
Develop your knowledge and artistic practice in film, television and theatre through exploration of the processes of adaptation and engagement with critical, cultural and political considerations.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore a range of practices, such as page to stage/screen, citation of iconic characters, fanfiction and digital reworkings, docudramas and documentary theatre, intercultural retellings and translations, contemporary retelling of historical narratives, and reworkings of productions in the same media.
Discover how diverse bodies move on screen, and how those bodies engage the spectator’s body.
You’ll explore how the screen representation of the body is shaped by culturally situated ideas about body and society, and power and desire – including creative traditions, influences, technologies, and innovations.
As you examine how the screen body generates meaning, you’ll study access to representation, visibility, marginalisation, and consent.
Create original scripts and develop your critical understanding of key storytelling issues such as narrative, character, dialogue, and place.
Your scriptwriting practice will include both individual and collaborative forms of writing and rewriting, and you'll engage with discourses around scriptwriting emerging from both theatre pedagogy and screenwriting studies, including projects for decolonising stage and screen writing traditions.
Explore the theories, themes, politics, and practices of contemporary musical theatre.
You’ll focus on the research and development (R&D) of musical theatre, its dramaturgy, political context, modes of production, representation, and reception.
Gain advanced knowledge of modes of programming arthouse, alternative, and experimental venues, as well as organising festivals.
Through seminars, workshops and group projects, you’ll explore how festivals (such as Cannes, Venice and Berlin) work as effective filters for wider distribution, and how festivals and programing are key to understanding the kinds of world cinema we watch.
Apply the knowledge and skills you’ve acquired in the previous modules to a major piece of independent work around an area you are interested in.
Independently initiate and develop the project under the guidance of a supervisor.
Apply your previously gained knowledge and skills to a significant research-based project that includes a creative element and critical research and reflection.
You’ll develop the project independently under supervision.
In addition to university-wide scholarships, the department offers the Bulmershe Bursary that supports eligible students with £1,000 towards the costs of university life.
It is open to all full-time UK or EU undergraduate students studying degrees offered by Film, Television, and Theatre including our joint honours programmes.
Students can apply in semester 1 of each year.
Students from the UK may also be eligible for a student loan to help cover costs.
Overall, 96% of graduates from Art are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, includes all Art responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-history-of-art:
Develop your creative practice, complemented by the study of arts across different periods, with our BA Art and History of Art programme.
This University of Reading four-year programme will help you become a skilful creator and thinker, bringing together your creative practical skills with the academic study of the history of art.
Our new School of Art building opened in September 2023 and is the perfect spot for exploring different media in our workshops and exhibiting your work whilst being near the centre of our Whiteknights campus.
In your first year you’ll experiment with a wide range of media through a series of practical projects, while exploring current and historical art practices.
You will consider painting, sculpture, photography, architecture and the decorative arts across a range of periods through a framework of lectures, projects, and museum and gallery visits.
As your course progresses, you’ll develop your own art project in the studio, guided by individual skill training and building up your expertise through increasingly independent art practice.
At the same time, you’ll identify and investigate different themes in historical and contemporary art, developing your writing and research skills.
You might have the opportunity to undertake a placement forming all or part of an optional module.
Explore the past, present and future of museums in a global context.
You'll examine the origins of museums, collecting histories, and the role of audiences in curation, as well as the central ethical debates around social justice, repatriation, decolonisation and inclusivity.
Examine the role of museums in society by observing and evaluating museum learning resources and events.
With input from museum-based professionals, you'll explore learning theory, programme and event management, resource design, evaluation and visitor research.
Interactive lectures, seminars and museum visits will enable you to contextualise and apply your learning.
Explore the methods used by museum professionals to store, catalogue, research and display objects, and how they communicate their meaning to the general public.
Gain a hands-on introduction to curatorship and collections management, with the opportunity to research and interpret an object chosen from the University's collections.
The University of Reading offers a wonderful range of subjects.
I am a joint honours student and there's a fantastic selection of joint degrees in Art.
The Department is very contemporary in its teaching and allows students to work within a wide range of media.
The scope of modules in History of Art also means students can tailor their degree.
There's excellent pastoral care.
I am very glad to have an academic tutor; I feel supported and my tutors truly care about my education and success.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-philosophy:
Develop your independent practice and understand the theories and ideas behind contemporary art, with our BA Art and Philosophy degree.
This unique University of Reading four-year programme will help you become a skilful creator and scholar, bringing together creative practice in art with academic knowledge of philosophy.
Supported by staff from Reading School of Art and the Department of Philosophy , you’ll engage in sustained experimentation and creative enquiry in practical studio and art history modules alongside complementary philosophy studies.
At Reading School of Art, you'll have access to a dedicated studio space, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, where you’ll work with a range of specialist tutors and technicians to develop your individual and professional practice, which you will share in regular exhibitions and events.
Our new School of Art building opened in September 2023 with bespoke workshops and studios near the centre of the university’s Whiteknights campus.
Our teaching staff are all artists, and curators highly connected with the creative world beyond the University, and strongly encourage regular exhibitions and open debate.
In philosophy, you will be taught by leading experts with a wide variety of research expertise, especially including moral philosophy and philosophy of mind and language.
You will be exposed to a range of philosophical traditions, from the ancient through to the contemporary, and from Western analytic philosophy through to non-Western schools of thought (such as Buddhist, Confucian, and Native American philosophy).
You will be taught using a combination of lectures and seminars, and will engage in a range of learning activities including debates, group discussion, and class presentations.
Studying philosophy alongside art allows you to consider the medium from a range of perspectives.
During your first year, you’ll be introduced to a range of art making approaches and current discourses through a series of practical projects in different media.
At the same time, you’ll explore the core topics and the basic concepts and methods of critical thinking, basic logic, and the psychology of reasoning.
As your course progresses, you’ll continue receiving further technical training and academic guidance while developing your own art project in studio.
You’ll delve deeper into art historical issues, while honing your independent research, critical reflection, production and presentation skills.
In philosophy, you’ll investigate further the thought of current philosophers and the different conceptions of what counts as philosophy.
You’ll be encouraged to develop independent learning, building on your skills of argument and presentation, personal effectiveness and self-awareness, culminating in a written dissertation.
Our Art and Philosophy course plays a vital role in connecting how people understand and shape the world.
Explore arguments in different contexts such as newspaper opinions, social media spats and philosophical treaties.
You’ll develop critical thinking and logic to evaluate claims and arguments.
You’ll delve into the most important philosophical works, considering the significance of each text and analysing the arguments within them to sharpen your critical skills.
Question your assumptions and beliefs by exploring radical philosophical claims.
You’ll compare and contrast different ways of doing philosophy, such as phenomenology and deconstruction.
Seek answers to the most important philosophical question.
You’ll explore different perspectives on the matter to develop and explain your own judgement and defend your position.
Develop the skills needed to produce persuasive and nuanced academic arguments, research, and referencing.
You’ll learn how to identify limitations and advantages of philosophical writing.
You'll develop your capacity for self-criticism through informed debate alongside your confidence and the ability to present exhibitions.
Participate in cross-cultural conversations about global issues such as gender, race, social identities, and death.
You will be introduced to and taught how to analyse a range of concepts, including Buddhist, Jain, and African American critical theories, performative theories, and phenomenological theories.
You'll visit major museums, galleries, and collections as you enhance your understanding of art history beyond an academic context.
You'll consider how Art History shapes and is shaped as you develop your research and communication skills and reflect critically on the different purposes of art writing.
Explore the concerns of society by asking questions within contemporary political philosophy.
You’ll enhance your ability to think reflectively and critically about the role of fairness in society.
Consider questions such as How can there be minds in a physical world?
How does a mental state (like a memory or a perceptual experience) come to represent the world?
What role does consciousness play in the mind?
Discuss and analyse some of the core arguments in philosophy of mind, including with historical reference to the figures who originally formulated those arguments.
Explore topics that are central to philosophical aesthetics including beauty, definitions of art and truth in literature.
This will enable you to develop critical understanding of philosophical problems raised by art and aesthetic experience.
Develop your knowledge and skills by considering arguments in moral philosophy and contribute to debate by learning how to argue in a charitable but critical way.
Investigate the concept of knowledge and analyse and evaluate some of the core arguments in contemporary epistemology.
You will learn about the different theories of knowledge and explore famous works from Ernest Sosa, Alvin Goldman, David Lewis, Edward Craig, and Miranda Fricker.
Investigate the concepts of freedom and responsibility using philosophical thinking and by applying approaches from different cultures.
Engage with questions concerning meaning, language and communication.
To address these, you'll engage with foundational texts in linguistics, psychology and anthropology and research informed by developments in the cognitive sciences.
Explore current debates in ethics, roughly focusing on material published in the last 20 years.
These debates could be totally new, or they could be current takes and debates about much older issues (such as Aristotle's ethics).
Learn about leading contemporary theories of fairness, including the relation of fairness to impartiality, equality, proportionality, need, desert, and free-riding.
You'll address conflicts between fairness and other values, while developing your skills in dealing with abstract moral concepts and normative arguments.
Explore and debate critical issues in business ethics from a moral, practical and, sometimes, political perspective.
You will learn about topics such as the morality of sweatshop labour, the ethics behind advertising, and the corporate obligation to do what is right.
Study the classic works in Ancient Greek political philosophy, including some or all of Aristotle's Politics and Rhetoric and Plato's Republic and Gorgias.
You'll look at the philosophers' conceptions of politics, society, and government, and examine their relevance to modern concerns and issues.
Study the role films play in our cultural lives.
Explore film in relation to reality, the human condition, philosophy and art.
Explore the ideas of two great philosophers, David Hume and Ludwig Wittgenstein, and learn about their distinct philosophical approaches.
You will focus on their respective conceptions of philosophy  - about science  - and their respective philosophy of mind.
Discuss the foundations of speech act theory and examine ways that it has been applied to philosophical problems in feminist theory and political and social theory.
Explore lies and bullshit, and what (if anything) is wrong with these uses of language.
And we will discuss the nature of propaganda and 'fake news' and how to resist its effects.
Explore some of the great contemporary and historical paradoxes in philosophy, and their proposed solutions.
Philosophy is full of paradoxes – logical, semantic, metaphysical, epistemological, ethical, and others, which shed light on big philosophical issues.
Discover metaphysics, one of the foundation stones of philosophy, and how the way we deal with metaphysical problems affects our approach to problems in many other areas of philosophy, such as philosophy of mind and epistemology.
Explore the central topics within analytic philosophy of religion, examining both contemporary ideas and their historical origins.
Through lectures and seminars, you will evaluate these concepts and consider their significance and validity.
You'll also choose one of the following:
Engage in original and independent research to produce an extended essay that focuses on a philosophical topic of your choice.
You’ll also submit an assessed research proposal and give a presentation.
Choose a philosophical topic that fascinates you to form the basis of an extended essay.
This will enhance your independent learning skills, self-awareness and ability to reflect on your progress and strengths.
As well as the practical experience gained on this degree, you’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills, such as self-motivation, time management, strategic thinking, logical analysis, and the critical assessment of argument.
Such skills are greatly valued in a variety of professional careers such as law, politics, management and marketing.
These include several famous alumni, such as Turner Prize-nominated artists, and PhD students who are award-winning artists and curators at influential museums.
Other graduates have found employment in galleries, education, research, art therapy, and film and video production.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/art-ug/ba-art-and-psychology:
Join our BA Art and Psychology programme, accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), and develop your creative practice while gaining your first qualification towards training as a professional psychologist.
At the University of Reading, you'll learn through sustained experimentation and creative enquiry in practical studio modules alongside complementary studies to introduce, develop and master skills and knowledge of art and psychology.
Led by internationally excellent staff from Reading School of Art and the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences , you’ll take part in a wide variety of exhibitions, and learn how to conduct laboratory research.
The School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences houses state-of-the-art facilities to support research and learning, including eye-tracking and specialist equipment for electrophysiology and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).
Additionally, we have various in-house NHS clinics, including:
You’ll learn from tutors and lecturers who are at the forefront of ground-breaking research for psychology and conduct internationally leading research in human development and ageing, clinical disorders, neuroscience, multilingualism, virtual reality, and behaviour change.
This degree is structured to build on your skills and develop your expertise both as an artist and as a psychology researcher.
Your studies in art will include set practical projects, supported by group and one-to-one feedback, weekly seminars, and guidance from your academic tutor.
Regular field trips to national and international museums, art institutions, exhibitions and galleries will give you the chance to consider the diverse conditions in which art is created, displayed and received.
Following your first year, your learning will be increasingly self-directed, while you’ll continue receiving further training and academic guidance to help you grow as an artist and deepen your expertise.
You’ll consolidate your learning, mastering your skills and knowledge through a choice of complementary modules, a comprehensive exhibition, and written dissertation.
In psychology, you’ll be taught through a variety of lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops, and lab classes.
Research methods teaching is supported by interactive workshops, practicals, and specialist drop-in sessions.
Throughout the programme, you’ll complete practical research work, ranging from large groups as you start out, to smaller groups and individual work.
In your fourth year, you’ll design and implement your own empirical project.
In art, our practice-based assessment methods provide inclusive and diverse combinations that enable you to demonstrate your skills and knowledge relevant to your individual creative practice and strengths.
This will culminate in a written dissertation and an end-of-year group exhibition of your artwork.
In psychology, modules are typically assessed by a mixture of coursework and formal examination, with some modules entirely assessed by coursework.
Coursework includes:
You’ll be encouraged to undertake placements in both art and psychology settings.
Past art opportunities included internships at Studio Voltaire and Frieze Art Fair, performances at the ICA, taking part in an Arts Council-supported film project at the Museum of English Rural Life, and participating in an international exhibition at the Seoul Institute of Arts in South Korea.
Psychology students have undertaken placements at charities, at one of our three in-house NHS clinics, and at the world-renowned Charlie Waller Institute for Evidence-Based Psychological Treatments.
There’s also the opportunity to volunteer as a research assistant on a range of projects within the School.
Develop an understanding of learning and memory and use this knowledge to reflect on their own learning.
You’ll gain knowledge on the nature of learning and the theoretical models underpinning these processes.
Build a broad understanding of psychology and its fundamental concepts and theories.
You’ll gain knowledge on key principles of organisation of systems while covering topics such as neural and hormonal function, genetic contributions to behaviour, personality, and group dynamics.
Explore quantitative and qualitative research methods, and develop skills in planning, data gathering and dissemination stages of psychology-related research.
Explore key current and historical issues in clinical psychology and develop your understanding of psychological disorders, their assessment and current evidence-based interventions.
Develop an understanding of biopsychology and cognition, perception and neuroscience through the study of topics such as attention and consciousness, object and face recognition, multisensory integration, pain, and cognitive control.
Extend your knowledge of quantitative and qualitative research methods in psychology, examine methods of conducting and analysing quantitative and qualitative research, and enhance your data analysis and critical evaluation skills.
Deepen your knowledge and understanding of the complex interplay between social psychology, typical social phenomena and individual differences.
Discover how individuals change and develop from the neonatal period, throughout childhood, into adolescence and old age.
Explore theories and research in typical and neurodivergent development and enhance your knowledge about observational methods.
Discover and understand diverse methodologies, dissect, criticise and propose empirical research, and navigate the challenges in studying clinical populations.
You will not only uncover the secrets of atypical human functioning but also develop practical insights and research skills essential for addressing real-world clinical challenges.
Enhance your understanding of the science of emotion and motivation as you study historical perspectives and current theory related to topics such as emotional expression and regulation, brain-body interaction, and behaviour change.
You’ll learn by engaging with conceptual and historical issues, social and biological psychology, individual differences and key research methods of the past and present.
Draw on current and past research to understand theoretical models and brain mechanisms implicated in neurodegenerative disorders, which affect up to one billion people worldwide.
Critically evaluate research findings and clinical management options within the field of pain.
You’ll explore how emotions, motivations, thoughts, and social factors can influence pain, and the stigma surrounding chronic pain.
Apply your previously gained knowledge and skills to conduct an independent piece of original research that involves literature review, planning, ethical considerations, data collection, data analysis, and a final written project report.
As well as the practical experience gained on this degree, you’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills, such as self-motivation, time management, strategic thinking, and the ability to think and analyse scientifically.
As a BA Art and Psychology graduate, you’ll be qualified for further training as a professional psychologist.
Our BSc Psychology is accredited by the British Psychological Society and provides you with the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership.
You could go on to work for organisations such as the NHS, civil service, schools, or charities.
BA Art and Psychology podcast
On this episode of the University of Reading's "Things I Wish I'd Known..." podcast, current student Sumaya talks about her experience of studying BA Art and Psychology.
Listen on Spotify

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/art/undergraduate/undergraduate-stories/ajay-pabial-story:
“I think as an art school we have to constantly be looking towards our alumni to gauge the fast-changing climate of opportunities within the arts.
“Ajay’s experience really shows how art education gives you the tools for lateral thinking.
To also involve his peers from Reading and build networks with Reading School of Art, Ajay is showing his passion and drive towards the arts.
“It’s important to have early career voices for students – it means they can see the opportunities available to them closer to graduation, as it is not always a linear path.”
And if further confirmation was needed of Ajay’s close collaboration with Reading, Professor Garfield is now one of the directors of Ajay’s company.
“Art Clubbers CIC provides a stepping stone from creative higher education, to a fast-paced creative industry.
It is a community of budding creatives, mostly recent graduates, but also some non-graduates from across creative industries.
"Typically, the age bracket is 18-30 but we acknowledge that there are creatives outside of these age brackets who are trying to access the creative industry, and we support their talent too.”
With an ever-growing number of aspiring creatives in the talent pool, Art Clubbers CIC provides work experience through live creative briefs based on different industries.
Typically, the projects are cultural, creative initiatives within communities.
One recent project, Poplar Paints , involved commissioning an international award-winning artist to get young people involved in the process of creative street art, culminating in the creation of a mural using spray paint.
As with many of Ajay’s projects, partnerships were crucial to this initiative with Foundation for Future London, City of London Corporation, Spotlight, Poplar Works and Poplar HARCA all supporting the exhibition.
“Being in education is a safe space and it’s a good time to experiment, volunteer, network, try new things and be a sponge for knowledge.
Take responsibility for your own development.
“Pick up extra business modules if you have the time, work across different departments if you can, and try to find ways to develop a commercial savviness to complement your creative studies.
“Fundamentally, I’ve been able to set up Art Clubbers CIC based on the experience I gained from volunteering.”
“Our project, Skills Youth Network Create (S.Y.N.C.), was awarded the grant as it meets many of the fund’s themes and priorities.
These include Creative Learning, Collaboration, Participation, Diverse Employment, Training, Engagement and Partnerships.
“The project also focuses on young people and Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) participants, which are some of the marginalised beneficiaries we want to reach.”
“It is through our great working relationship with Foundations of Future London and their understanding of supporting a diverse voice that I was approached to be one of the faces for the new Westfield East Bank Creative Futures Fund.
“It's very exciting being one of the faces for this new grant scheme – definitely a proud moment.”
The grant has allowed Art Clubbers CIC to continue to do what they do best – lend a helping hand to those marginalised from the sector and have or are experiencing difficulties in accessing opportunities.
As a culturally diverse and LGBT+ led organisation of a team of young creatives, the grant supports them to further amplify the voices and talent they work with and support.
“Being Managing Director of my own not-for-profit arts organisation, I've learned to understand the power of funding.
With it, we can make positive changes within our communities, supporting and inspiring others.” Unfortunately, statistics show that individuals from culturally diverse, LGBT+, female and disabled backgrounds are less likely to be offered funding.
I pride myself as a gay south Asian young person to continuously pushing these boundaries.
“Representation matters.
I'm proud I can represent those from these intersections in a professional context and that you too can break down the barriers, prejudices and difficulties that come with navigating the creative industry and have your voice be heard!”
Reading School of Art
Part of the School of Arts & Communication Design

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/urop:
RIS offers undergraduates the opportunity to undertake short-term, paid internships with charities, external organisations, as well as internal University of Reading schools and departments.
The scheme runs throughout the academic year (part-time during the semester and full-time or part-time during summer) advertising a wide range of internship opportunities including research, marketing, finance, charity work, project management, data analysis, and much more.
All RIS internships are advertised on MyJobsOnline on a rolling basis as and when we get them from our employer partners.
If you’d like to find out more about the Reading Internship Scheme, visit our webpages or log into MyJobsOnline with your student credentials and filter by Reading Internship Scheme to view opportunities.
Academic departments are still able to take on students as research interns but this will go through the Reading Internship Scheme.
Key items to consider:
To find out more about RIS, visit our webpages or get in touch with the team on ris@reading.ac,uk
Reading Internship Scheme - Students
Reading Internship Scheme - Employers
MyJobsOnline
ris@reading.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biochemistry:
Learn about the molecular foundations of life itself with our BSc Biochemistry course.
Molecules are at the centre of all life from the smallest virus to the largest animal.
Biochemists seek to understand how molecular processes control life at various levels; how do molecules make cells work, how do these cells coordinate in an organ and finally, how do these organs signal and work together for life to function?
Biochemistry is at the forefront of understanding how molecules control and affect life, and an appreciation of these concepts allows biochemists to answer life’s fundamental questions and contribute to resolving critical biological problems such as designing drugs to treat cancer or even bacteria that can clean up an oil spill.
All our students will undertake a Research Project during their final year either in one of our research laboratories or as a data-based projects for students to gain experience in analysing large biochemical and biomedical datasets.
You also have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement between your second and final year.
You also have the opportunity to undertake an internship as part of the Reading Internship Scheme (RIS) .
We have secured ring-fenced industrial and summer placements to several prestigious providers such as Diamond Light Source (the UK’s national synchrotron), Public Health England, GSK, AstraZeneca and Covance.
You can also choose to spend a year abroad.
Our Department has a dedicated member of staff in charge of placements, who can provide you with advice and support.
For more information, please visit the School of Biological Sciences website .
Our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building is the home of the School of Biological Sciences.
It offers state-of-the-art research and teaching laboratories, seminar rooms, and plenty of study and social space, including a café.
The building also houses the Cole Museum of Zoology.
The collection, featuring more than 3,500 natural history specimens, provides a fantastic resource for biological scientists and the wider community.
You'll have the opportunity to study your subject in a layered approach where you will focus on the molecular and cellular concepts of biochemistry in Part 1, followed by discussions of the organ and organism effects of these biochemical processes in Part 2.
Finally, in Part 3 you will study topics at the forefront of biochemistry from cutting-edge research to human disease and structural biology.
In addition to compulsory modules, you will be able to choose optional modules to tailor your degree to your interests.
The academic year is divided into 2 semesters, each with 12 weeks of teaching and 3 weeks of assessments.
You will have approximately 12 contact hours each week with a significant amount in laboratory-based practicals.
In your final year, you will have less taught contact hours, but will be expected to spend a minimum of 8 hours each week working on your research project.
Outside of the contact hours you’ll be expected to carry out independent study, including online learning, reading, and preparing coursework.
Our teaching is delivered by active researchers, ensuring everything you learn is up-to-date and relevant to employers.
Teaching will be delivered through a combination of:
Each module is assessed by coursework, such as practical reports, online tests and essays, and end of semesters examinations.
The final-year research project is assessed with a poster presentation and a detailed written report.
24 points, including  HL4 in Chemistry AND one other science subject at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Further Maths, Statistics, Psychology, Geography, Environmental Studies, Applied Science, Geology, Computer Science.
Gain a foundation in microbiology, covering the biology, diversity, structure, genetics, ecology, and evolution of bacteria, archaea, protists, fungi, and viruses.
You’ll discover their impact on environment and society, and how they cause infections or develop antimicrobial resistance, while exploring  different methods of diagnosis, treatment and prevention.
Explore how organs work to support life.
You will be introduced to the basics of the anatomy of some of the major systems of the human body, and to the physiological processes taking part within and between them.
Gain an understanding of key biochemical concepts such as enzyme kinetics, metabolic pathways, metabolic regulation, and pathological metabolism.
Learn about the structure and organisation of cells, with a focus on the common features found in all life.
You’ll also discover how the differences between cells are essential for creating the diversity of life on the planet.
Understand how the chemical reactions that occur in living systems follow the same principles and mechanisms as those that take place in the laboratory.
Designed specifically for students in the life sciences, this module covers the fundamental chemical concepts for the molecular sciences, including core ideas in physical, inorganic, and organic chemistry.
Learn about the mechanisms of evolution, the diverse approaches for the study of genetic and phenotypic evolution, and discover how evolutionary perspective is fundamental and improves understanding of diverse areas of modern biology.
Gain an understanding of the development of life on our planet.
You’ll cover the major events and processes that shaped life on Earth, including climate change and mass extinctions, evolution of plants on land and when vertebrates stepped out of the water.
Gain solid theoretical and practical knowledge and essential skills to understand the role of pathology in human disease diagnosis in biomedical research or healthcare.
Expand your understanding of the processes underlying cellular function, and explore at the molecular level the mechanisms by which cells work and how these mechanisms are regulated.
Through a combination of lectures, workshops, academic tutor-led sessions and group activities, you’ll develop and refine your ability to critically evaluate scientific literature, effectively communicate ideas, handle data and apply appropriate quantitative approaches.
Understand how genetic defects at the molecular level impact on pathophysiology and influence disease risk, progression and severity.
You’ll study aetiology of major medical diseases, with a focus on both mendelian and complex polygenic disorders.
Build on what you’ve learned in previous modules and explore in depth the biochemistry of cellular pathways in both healthy and disease states.
You’ll  explore how changes in these pathways can dictate physiological outcomes and contribute to disease development and progression.
Learn the key concepts of bioinformatics and computational biology, including the basics of algorithms, machine learning, and agent-based systems.
You'll gain the necessary programming and computational skills required for a successful career in modern biology..
Learn about microbial genetics and evolution, including the mechanisms of horizontal gene transfer.
You’ll also learn how bacteria protect the integrity of their genomes against DNA damage, discover they sense and respond to environmental stress, and how they regulate their cell cycle and control the replication of their genomes.
Explore the infectious diseases afflicting the various systems of the human body, and the pathogens that cause them.
You’ll gain a deep understanding of their transmission, dissemination, pathogenesis, detection, and the development of therapies and prevention methods.
Discover the fundamental principles and concepts that underpin haematology and immunology.
You’ll explore topics such as the production, structure and function of blood cells, the techniques used within hospital haematology laboratories to investigate and diagnose disease, the main forms of immunopathology, and how vaccines are produced.
Learn about the basics of the anatomy of some of the major systems of the human body and the physiological processes taking part within and between them.
Gain hands-on experience in independent research, applying, and expanding, what you’ve learned while working with an academic supervisor on experiments, data analysis, and science communication.
Discover the diverse uses of biochemistry in biotechnology, medicine, and agriculture.
and explore its role in diagnosing diseases, microbiology, and microbial processes.
Discover the tools and techniques that have transformed modern life science research by enabling scientists to examine proteins with increasing precision.
You’ll learn the strengths and limitations of techniques used in genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics, as well as how to interpret the diverse data sets produced in modern biology.
Learn about the evolution, ecology, biochemistry, mechanisms, and toxicology principles of venomous creatures, poisonous plants, and fungi.
You’ll explore how venoms and poisons are used for medicinal purposes, and develop a greater understanding of the principles of pharmacology.
Learn field-based sampling techniques and about the changing microbial biodiversity in the Arctic.
Delve into zoonotic diseases, their hosts, symptoms, and effects on human health and the economy, and learn about disease control, co-evolution, and the use of epidemiological modelling for effective management.
Learn the core principles of biology applied to criminology, and see how modern science helps solve complex crimes.
You’ll cover topics such as forensic pathology, anthropology, entomology, and acarology.
Discover how some of the most important medical problems of our time have been shaped by our evolutionary history.
You’ll study relevant evolutionary processes across the animal kingdom and the Tree of Life, and you’ll explore the implications of evolutionary biology to human health and disease.
Gain an introduction to neuroscience, focusing on the structure and function of the central nervous system.
You’ll learn healthy brain function and how it changes in disease and neurodivergent conditions, covering different topics such as learning, memory, and neuroanatomy.
Discover how bacteria and viruses can cause diseases by interacting with host organisms, and study real-life examples of how different factors affect pathogenesis, impacting on human health, agriculture, and protein disorders.
You’ll also cover opportunistic pathogens and the molecular basis of emerging infectious diseases with epidemic potential.
Develop your understanding of the medical, agricultural, environmental, and industrial applications of microbes and microbial biotechnology, and how advances in this field can help tackle global challenges.
Explore the connection between cellular signalling and cancer development and learn how lab and computer modelling studies have enhanced our grasp of receptors and signal transduction's role in cell function.
Learn the latest insights into the causes of heart attacks and strokes, and how drugs, can be used to treat them.
You’ll also discover how cardiovascular disease is affected by our genetic makeup and how it can be lessened by changes to lifestyle and diet.
Explore how scientific ideas become real-world products, with a focus on medicines, medical devices, and cosmetics.
You’ll work in teams to develop a business plan for novel scientific and technical products, gaining skills in innovation, product development, and business strategy.
This programme has been accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB) following an independent and rigorous assessment.
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge and establish a profile of key skills that bioscience employers can recognise in accredited graduates, including technical and transferable skills.
This course will prepare you for a range of science-related careers, including research, laboratory work, science sales and management,  data analysis, science communication and patenting, as well as provide transferable skills for many areas of industry.
Past graduates BSc Biochemistry at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as AstraZeneca,GSK, IQVIA, Oncologica and Thames Valley Police (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Biochemistry responders).
Overall, 90% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biochemistry-with-professional-experience:
Learn about the molecular foundations of life itself with BSc Biochemistry and Professional Experience.
You'll gain the necessary programming and computational skills required for a successful career in modern biology.
Explore case studies of real product innovations and concepts, and learn about the innovation process from science to product development, focusing on medicines, medical devices, and cosmetics.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biochemistry-with-foundation:
Learn about the molecular foundations of life itself with BSc Biochemistry with Foundation.
Our BSc Biochemistry with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
24 points with Chemistry and one other science subject at higher level
Discover the chemical principles that provide the foundations for many scientific disciplines.
Learn how to predict the properties of molecules from their structures and gain an understanding of how and why reactions happen.
You can also r egister your details with us to receive information about your course of interest and study and life at the University of Reading.
You’ll discover their impact on environment and society, and how they cause infections or develop antimicrobial resistance, while exploring  different methods of diagnosis, treatment and prevention
Optional modules
Expand your understanding of the processes underlying cellular function, andexplore at the molecular level the mechanisms by which cells work and how these mechanisms are regulated.
You’ll explore how venoms and poisons are used for medicinal purposes, and develop a greater understanding of the principles of pharmacology..

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-biochemistry:
Learn about the molecular foundations of life itself and gain advanced biosciences knowledge and skills on this integrated MSci Biochemistry course.
Molecules are at the centre of all life, from the smallest virus to the largest animal.
Biochemists seek to understand how molecular processes control life at various levels.
How do molecules make cells work?
How do these cells coordinate in an organ?
How do these organs signal and work together for life to function?
Biochemistry is at the forefront of understanding how molecules control and affect life.
An appreciation of these concepts allows biochemists to answer life’s fundamental questions and contribute to resolving critical biological problems, such as designing drugs to treat cancer or even bacteria that can clean up an oil spill.
The MSci follows the standard undergraduate curriculum but with an additional year of study and a master's level qualification.
In your first year, you will gain a broad introduction to biochemistry taught in core modules.
You will cover the fundamental aspects of biochemistry, including:
Your first year also focuses on developing your essential laboratory skills, data handling/interpretation and other key transferable skills.
You will explore more specialist areas in your second and third year, taking your knowledge of  biochemistry to a greater depth, with the opportunity to choose from a range of optional modules.
The third year of the programme places a strong emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills.
Ready for your fourth year where you will gain advanced scientific and technical skills to solve complex research questions.
In your fourth year will undertake an Advanced Research Project during your final year, working alongside academics on cutting-edge medical research.
This will provide you with the opportunity to independently plan, execute, analyse and communicate a research project in a specialised area of biochemistry.
Our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building is the home of the School of Biological Sciences .
You will have the opportunity to get hands-on experience using our state-of-the-art equipment and facilities including:
We will support you if you choose to undertake a summer placement or a paid vacation studentship.
Such placements and studentships will be funded by external organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Biochemical Society or the University of Reading via the Reading Internship Scheme .
You can also choose to carry out a year-long industrial placement on our MSci Biochemistry with Professional Experience .
On all our biochemistry degrees, we have secured ring-fenced industrial and summer placements with several prestigious providers, such as Diamond Light Source (the UK’s national synchrotron), Public Health England, GSK, AstraZeneca, and Covance.
Y
Our Department has a dedicated member of staff in charge of placements who can provide you with advice and support.
Acquire specialist research techniques and expertise in your chosen area of biomedical science.
You’ll be provided with a solid theoretical grounding of important concepts, and trained to undertake practical and theoretical research and database searching skills
Understanding scientific literature is an essential skill for a successful career in research.
Learn how to critically evaluate research and how to develop your own conclusions from the data presented.
Learn how to research the background, plan and design experiments and execute a research project successfully.
Develop a range of key biomedical research techniques  - used in both academic and commercial applications of biomedical science, and learn the most appropriate methods to use when conducting your own research.
Accredited degree programmes contain a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge and establish a profile of key skills, including technical and transferable skills, that bioscience employers can recognise in accredited graduates.
Graduates from this programme will be highly competitive in the job market, equipped with advanced knowledge and skills that are highly valued by employers and well-positioned for further academic study.
An MSci Biochemistry will prepare you for various science-related careers, including research, laboratory work, science sales and management, data analysis, science communication, and patenting.
It will also provide transferable skills for many areas of industry.
Our past BSc Biochemistry graduates have gone on to work for employers such as AstraZeneca, GSK, IQVIA, Oncologica and Thames Valley Police (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Biochemistry responders).
Overall, 91.4% of School of Biological Sciences graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, which includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-biochemistry-with-professional-experience:
Learn about the molecular foundations of life itself and gain advanced biosciences knowledge and skills on this integrated MSci Biochemistry with Professional Experience course.
In your first year, you will develop your essential laboratory skills, data handling/interpretation and other key transferable skills, and cover the fundamental aspects of biochemistry, including:
Advanced subjects you may explore include:
Enhance your employability and put your practical skills to the test with an integrated year-long industrial placement between your second and final year.
We have secured ring-fenced industrial and summer placements with several prestigious providers, such as Diamond Light Source (the UK’s national synchrotron), Public Health England, GSK, AstraZeneca, and Covance.
We also offer a four-year version of this degree, MSci Biochemistry , that does not include an integrated placement year.
Discover what it is like to work in a professional setting while further developing your skills, expanding your network and enhancing your career prospects.
As part of your placement reflection, you'll be required to prepare and deliver a presentation and submit a written report detailing your experience and what you’ve learned.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students: £9,535 per year for 2025/26 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your course
An MSci Biochemistry course will prepare you for various science-related careers, including research, laboratory work, science sales and management, data analysis, science communication, and patenting.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biological-sciences:
This BSc Biological Sciences course is ideal for anyone who is passionate about all aspects of biology, and can be tailored to match your interests.
The majority of modules in BSc Biological Sciences are optional, giving you the opportunity to cover a broad range of topics or specialise in a particular area such as ecology and wildlife or human biology.
You will be taught by experts in their fields and have access to a range of research facilities.
91% of BSc Biological Sciences students said the course has developed the knowledge and skills they think they will need for their future (National Student Survey 2025, 91.3% of responders from BSc Biological Sciences).
Within environmental biology options you will develop an understanding of ecology, conservation biology and humankind's impact on biodiversity.
The University of Reading’s award-winning campus is home to over 1,000 different animal species and is extremely useful for learning fieldwork skills.
It also features the Cole Museum of Zoology and a herbarium, which house vast collections and offer volunteering opportunities.
Additionally, you will have the chance to apply your scientific knowledge to a range of other habitats through our optional field courses.
These normally last around two weeks and take place in locations such as Devon, Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands, Iceland, Spain and Colombia.
Within biomedical subjects you will develop an understanding of human physiology and the basis of disease.
The course has a strong practical element, and you will gain valuable experience of laboratory work and learn key molecular genetic and cell biology techniques.
During your final year will have the chance to spend 11 weeks working on an original research project using cutting edge facilities and equipment.
Previous topics include gene therapy of muscular dystrophy, emerging viral infections, the regulation of the stress response, stem cell biology, the spread of cancer and the control of blood clotting.
All of our Biological Sciences graduates are eligible for membership of The Royal Society of Biology and can apply for Chartered Biologist status.
You will have the opportunity to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Nuffield Foundation.
These can take place over six weeks during the summer break, or be carried out part-time over a longer period.
During studentships you will typically work on a set project and benefit from valuable training in techniques, experimental design and the interpretation of data.
You can can also choose to take a work placement module.
Our department has a dedicated academic in charge of placements, who can provide you with advice and support.
Alternatively, you can opt to take the four-year version of this course, incorporating a year in industry.
24 points, including  HL4 in Biology AND one other science subject at higher level
Learn about ecological concepts and how they can be applied in the field and in the laboratory.
Discover how ecological questions can be used to understand and address conservation problems.
Explore vertebrate life through a range of theoretical and practical activities and learn about the functional anatomy, physiology, and phylogenetic diversity of vertebrates.
You’ll gain advanced hands-on practical knowledge using our Cole Museum of Zoology teaching collection, and receive training in dissection skills.
Enhance your appreciation for British wildlife and gain experience in survey techniques that are vital for careers in ecology, zoology and wildlife conservation.
You’ll learn to survey, identify and study birds, mammals, invertebrates and plants in a range of habitats from coastal vegetation to ancient woodland.
Deepen your understanding of the patterns and processes in ecological systems.
You’ll learn about the form and function of communities, ecosystems, and biomes, covering topics such as biochemical cycles and the role of microbes in ecological processes, food webs, ecosystem services, and macroecological and biogeographical rules.
Discover the range of marine habitats, environments and associated biodiversity present within the biosphere, and the major physical and chemical mechanisms underpinning oceanicprocesses.
You’ll learn key aspects of the biology, ecology and environmental physiology of marine organisms across several domains and major phyla of life.
Discover the significance of invertebrate life and how they impact our society's economic, social, and scientific accomplishments.
You'll learn how to identify them, about their life cycle and ecology, and about their special adaptations to carry out physiological activities.
Learn about the principles of palaeontology and palaeoecology, and attend lectures covering diverse related topics.
You’ll participate to field trips to nearby palaeobiological sites and develop critical skills, such as mapping, excavation, fossil preparation and extraction, fossil identification, specimen curation, and modern analytical techniques.
Learn the scientific method used to study animal behaviour and its underlying principle theories.
You’ll discover how facts about behaviour are established and how experiments are designed and results analysed and interpreted
Explore the conflicts and challenges associated with nature conservation and learn how data-driven conclusions can generate conservation solutions.
Additionally, you’ll gain an understanding of the realities faced by conservation practitioners in complex modern settings.
Discover the basics of protein structure and its impact on life science research.
Spend two weeks undertaking an intensive research-focused field course in Canada's Badlands.
Guided by top dinosaur palaeontology experts, you’ll  participate to surveys, prospecting, identification, bonebed mapping, and fossil excavation, gaining both practical and academical skills.
Enhance your biodiversity survey skills and practical marine conservation knowledge through snorkelling or SCUBA diving.
You'll learn ecological assessment methods and gain advanced insights into various marine habitats.
Learn about the global concept of urban areas and how these change over time in different parts of the world.
You’ll examine issues relating to the impacts of the urban environment on human health and how both nature-based and technological-based approaches could be used to create significant benefits for individuals and society.
During the course, emphasis is placed on developing transferable skills such as computer literacy, information retrieval, data handling and communication skills.
You could find employment in a wide range of roles across sectors including healthcare, agriculture, commercial manufacturing, environmental management and publishing.
You may also decide to take up a research career or move into further study.
Past BSc Biological Sciences graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as GSK, IQVIA, NHS, Sanofi and WSP (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Biological Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biological-sciences-with-professional-experience:
This BSc Biological Sciences with Professional Experience course enables you to develop your knowledge of biology around your specific interests, whilst gaining valuable industry experience.
The majority of modules on this course are optional, giving you the opportunity to cover a broad range of topics or specialise in a particular area such as ecology and wildlife or human biology.
Your third year will consist of a work placement, which you can choose based on your career goals.
Our £60m Health and Life Sciences building is the home of the School of Biological Sciences.
You will spend your third year in an industrial business, a research institute or an environmental organisation.
Most opportunities are available within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
In recent years students have carried out placements at Diamond Light Source, Kew Gardens, Public Health England, and GSK.
You can also choose to spend the year abroad, typically carrying out research in an academic laboratory.
There is also the opportunity to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Nuffield Foundation.
Explore the conflicts and challenges associated with nature conservation and  learn how data-driven conclusions can generate conservation solutions.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biological-sciences-with-foundation:
This BSc Biological Sciences with Foundation course is ideal for anyone who is passionate about all aspects of biology, and can be tailored to match your interests.
Our BSc Biological Sciences with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
The University of Reading’s award-winning campus is home to more than 1,000 different animal species and is extremely useful for learning fieldwork skills.
These normally last around two weeks and take place in locations such as Devon, Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands, Iceland, Spain and Colombia.
During your final year you will have the chance to spend 11 weeks working on an original research project using cutting edge facilities and equipment.
Alternatively, you can opt to take the four-year version of this course (plus the additional foundational year), incorporating a year in industry.
24 points with Biology and one other science subject at higher level
Gain the basic mathematical knowledge and skills required for a successful transition to degrees related to Chemical and Biological Sciences.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biomedical-science:
With our BSc Biomedical Science course, learn about the inner workings of the human body and take part in world-class research with this strongly practical course.
Our BSc Biomedical Science course is IBMS accredited and developed in partnership with practising NHS laboratory scientists.
This degree is specifically geared towards becoming a biomedical scientist, working in hospital and private clinical labs to help doctors diagnose and treat diseases.
To work as a biomedical scientist in the UK, you'll need to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
92% of BSc Biomedical Science students of our students said the course often challenges them to achieve their best work (National Student Survey 2025, 91.7% of responders from BSc Biomedical Sciences).
You will learn about the systems that underpin all living organisms from a cellular, tissue, organ and whole body perspective.
From this basis, you will study the diseases that affect each area and the mechanisms that the body uses to combat them.
The course has a strong practical basis, and you will learn key cellular, molecular and biochemical techniques, including live cell microscopy, and DNA and protein technology.
You will benefit from our long-standing links with the Royal Berkshire Hospital – some teaching is delivered by practising NHS laboratory scientists.
During your final year will have the chance to spend 11 weeks working in a lab on a biomedical research project, on topics as diverse as SARS, HIV, influenza, heart disease, cancer neurodegeneration and obesity.
You will have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement between your second and final year.
Undertaking your placement in an accredited NHS training lab allows you to work towards the IBMS Certificate of Competence and the Registration Training Portfolio during your degree.
Or you could choose to undertake a more broad placement to prepare you for a wider range of careers.
Students in previous years have worked at NHS training labs as well as Public Health England, GSK, and Covance.
You can also choose to spend a year abroad, typically carrying out research in an academic laboratory.
You will have the opportunity to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust.
You’ll discover their impact on environment and society, and how they cause infections or develop antimicrobial resistance, while exploring different methods of diagnosis, treatment and prevention.
An in-depth exploration of the human life journey, spanning from pre-fertilization through birth to aging.
Gain a comprehensive understanding human reproduction, embryonic development, and the complexities of reproductive health and diseases.
Encompassing the entire human life cycle, you’ll get to examine variations arising from genetic, environmental, and endocrine factors and the way these can be managed.
You’ll explore how changes in these pathways can dictate physiological outcomes and contribute to disease development and progression.
Delve into the study of homeostatic control, hormones, their functions, and the associated glands, comprehending the intricate mechanisms that maintain hormonal balance.
Gain a comprehensive knowledge of endocrine disorders and their management, as well as understanding the interplay between different hormonal systems.
This skills-focussed module aims to provide you with an opportunity to enhance and demonstrate clinical and scientific skills gained from previous years.
You will go beyond clinical care at a patient level and discuss how healthcare provision at a community, local and national levels are undertaken, including with input from local and national governments and NGOs.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), which means that on successful completion of your studies, you’ll have the academic requirements needed to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
You will also need at least one year’s experience in an NHS approved lab where you will work towards the IBMS Certificate of Competence and the Registration Training Portfolio, this can be undertaken as a placement year or undertaken after you graduate.
Once you have achieved both the IBMS Certificate of Competence and graduated you can register with the HCPC.
This programme is also accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB) following an independent and rigorous assessment.
As well as working as a Biomedical Scientist, you will also have the skills to work in areas such as  biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and forensic science.
You may also decide to study for higher research degrees or commence a medical, dentistry or veterinary degree course.
Past BSc Biomedical Sciences graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as Abbot Laboratories, GSK, NHS, Thames Water and Civil Service (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Biomedical Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biomedical-science-with-foundation:
Study BSc Biomedical Sciences with Foundation and learn about the inner workings of the human body and take part in world-class research through this strongly practical course.
The BSc Biomedical Sciences with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
This course was developed in partnership with practising NHS laboratory scientists.
The flexible nature of the course will then allow you to pick specialist modules that match your interests.
You will also have the chance to carry out a year-long industrial placement or a paid vacation studentship in order to gain valuable work and research experience.
During your final year will have the chance to spend 11 weeks working in a lab on a biomedical research project.
Past projects have investigated coronary heart disease, gene therapy for muscular dystrophies, and the role of cell movement in the spread of cancer.
Our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building will open in 2020.
As the new home of the School of Biological Sciences, it will offer state-of-the-art research and teaching laboratories, seminar rooms, and plenty of study and social space, including a café.
The building will also house the Cole Museum of Zoology .
You will have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement between your third and final year.
Student in previous years have worked at Diamond Light Source, Public Health England, GSK, and Covance.
You will have the opportunity to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust.
Additionally, you can choose to take a work placement module.
Acquire fundamental knowledge about diagnosing and treating human health issues, which will serve as a foundation for more specialised clinical modules in the future.
Understand the anatomy and physiology of the eye, the ear, the brain and the wide range of instrumentation functions to diagnose common conditions.
Study various imaging techniques like X-rays, ultrasound, CT, PET, and SPECT.
You'll also discover radiotherapy planning, equipment operation, and radiopharmaceutical production.
Gain an in-depth knowledge of gut microbiota, including how this community of microorganisms can be manipulated and can impact on health.
You'll review evidence to critically evaluate trials published in this area, learn how gut microbiota interacts with host systems, and how this field links to existing and potential health claims.
You could work in pharmaceutical or academic laboratories, scientific publishing or clinical trials.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-biomedical-science-with-professional-experience:
Learn about the inner workings of the human body and take part in world-class research through our practical BSc Biomedical Sciences with Professional Experience course.
Our BSc Biomedical Sciences course was developed in partnership with practising NHS laboratory scientists.
Past projects have investigated coronary heart disease, gene therapy for muscular dystrophies, and the role of cell movement in the spread of cancer.
You will carry out a year-long industrial placement between your second and final year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-biomedical-science:
Learn about the inner workings of the human body and take part in world-class research on this multidisciplinary, research-led MSci Biomedical Science course.
Biomedical science is one of the fastest-growing fields of study and is at the forefront of modern science.
Learn about the systems that underpin all living organisms from a cellular, tissue, organ and whole-body perspective.
This highly practical MSci is specifically geared towards becoming a biomedical scientist, working in hospital and private clinical labs to help doctors diagnose and treat diseases.
To work as a biomedical scientist in the UK, you must register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
The course has a strong practical basis.
You will learn key cellular, molecular and biochemical techniques, including live cell microscopy, and DNA and protein technology.
We work closely with the Royal Berkshire Hospital and will benefit from teaching delivered by practising NHS laboratory scientists.
In your first year, you will learn about the biochemical, molecular and cell biology basis of life, and study the fundamentals of microbiology.
Your practical lessons start here and you'll learn the basic laboratory techniques.
Your teaching in the second year, will focus on core biomedical subjects, including medical genetics, haematology, immunology, clinical biochemistry and infectious diseases.
The third year of the programme places a strong emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills, preparing you for your final year of study.
You will undertake an Advanced Research Project during your fourth year, working in biomedical research laboratories alongside academics on cutting-edge research.
Some students choose to complete our MSci Biomedical Science with Professional Experience course , and take a year-long placement between the second and third year.
Undertaking a placement in an accredited NHS training lab could allow you to work towards the IBMS Certificate of Competence and the Registration Training Portfolio during your degree.
Alternatively, you could prepare for a wider range of careers by undertaking a broader placement.
In previous years, students have worked at NHS training labs, Public Health England, GSK, and Covance.
You can also choose to spend a year abroad, typically conducting research in an academic laboratory.
You will also be able to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust .
These can take place over six weeks during the summer break or be carried out part-time over a longer period.
During studentships, you will typically work on a set project and benefit from valuable training in techniques, experimental design, and data interpretation.
For more information, please visit the School of Biomedical Sciences website .
Gain a comprehensive understanding of human reproduction, embryonic development, and the complexities of reproductive health and diseases.
Gain hands-on experience in independent research, applying and expanding what you’ve learned while working with an academic supervisor on experiments, data analysis, and science communication.
Undertake a significant, independent research project, working alongside experienced academics on cutting-edge medical research.
Develop a range of key biomedical research techniques used in both academic and commercial applications of biomedical science, and learn the most appropriate methods to use when conducting your own research.
This degree equips you with the skills to become a biomedical scientist, working in hospital and private clinical labs to help doctors diagnose and treat diseases.
In addition to working as a biomedical scientist, you will have the skills to work in biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and forensic science.
Past graduates of our BSc Biomedical Science have gone on to work for employers such as Abbot Laboratories, GSK, NHS, Thames Water and Civil Service (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Biomedical Sciences responders).
Overall, 91% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-biomedical-science-with-professional-experience:
Learn about the inner workings of the human body and take part in world-class research on this multidisciplinary, research-led MSci Biomedical Science with Professional Experience course.
Enhance your employability and put your practical skills to the test with an integrated year-long industrial placement between your second and third years.
You could work towards the IBMS Certificate of Competence and the Registration Training Portfolio and undertake a placement in an accredited NHS training lab during your degree.
Once you have achieved the IBMS Certificate of Competence and graduated, you can register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) .
We also offer a four-year version of this degree, MSci Biomedical Science, that does not include an integrated placement year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-medical-science:
Train to work at the forefront of modern medicine with our BSc Medical Science course.
Focus on the science that underpins medicine, and how medical science can lead to new ways of diagnosing and treating disease.
This course covers topics such as biomedical laboratory research and frontline clinical care in order to improve patients’ lives.
Led by the School of Biological Sciences , you will be taught by academics whose research is aimed at understanding:
Everyone who teaches you has on-the-ground experience.
This course offers the flexibility to explore a variety of topics, ranging from molecular, genetic and cellular levels through to diagnostics, treatments and interventions.
You will have the opportunity to study the link between biomedical science and human anatomy and physiology in the healthy and diseased state and determine how it informs disease understanding, diagnosis and treatment.
You will learn to learn about a wide range of diagnostic equipment used to detect and monitor diseases, assess injuries, and evaluate overall health.
You will have the opportunity to explore a range of diseases and their treatments, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, pathological infections and neurological disorders – all of which present major challenges to global health.
Discover the world of functional prosthetics, robotics, exoskeletons and medical equipment used for medical and rehabilitation applications.
You'll learn about the mechanical and engineering design principles needed to create new devices, robots and orthotics, and gain a basic understanding of the principles of forces, torques and joints applied to humans, animals and mechanisms.
Expand your understanding of the processes underlying cellular function and explore at the molecular level the mechanisms by which cells work and how these mechanisms are regulated.
You’ll explore how changes in these pathways can dictate physiological outcomes and contribute to disease development and progression.
You’ll also learn how bacteria protect the integrity of their genomes against DNA damage, discover how they sense and respond to environmental stress, and how they regulate their cell cycle and control the replication of their genomes.
Understand how science is used to create and administer medicines in the gastrointestinal tract.
Using an integrated learning approach, you’ll research specific health conditions and consider holistic care requirements for a patient.
Explore an essential part of modern biology to develop your programming and computational skills.
You'll cover basic algorithms, machine learning, and agent-based systems to demonstrate how bioinformatics enhance research in biology.
You'll review evidence to critically evaluate trials published in this area, learn how gut microbiota interact with host systems, and how this field links to existing and potential health claims.
Learn the latest insights into the causes of heart attacks and strokes, and how drugs can be used to treat them.
Understand techniques and processes that create a visual representation of the interior body for clinical analysis and medical intervention.
Focusing on MRI, CT, and ultrasound imaging techniques, you'll learn how to view, process, and analyse human fMRI data.
Explore case studies of real product innovations and concepts and learn about the innovation process from science to product development, focusing on medicines, medical devices, and cosmetics.
This degree offers a broad curriculum that allows you to move into careers within the NHS and its supporting industries, as well as adjacent areas such as public health.
Overall, 91% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (Based on our HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/2021, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-medical-science-with-foundation:
Train to work at the forefront of modern medicine with our BSc Medical Science with Foundation course.
This four-year programme includes a foundation year that leads directly into the three-year course.
Led by the School of Biological Sciences and the School of Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy, your learning is enhanced by:
Graduate well prepared to work in the NHS or a variety of other healthcare settings.
The aim of the foundation year is to prepare you for your medical science degree.
As you progress, each stage builds on your prior learning.
Following the foundation year, tailored pathway options allow you to specialise in topical, cutting edge areas of medical science:
You can gain hands-on experience during multiple short placements in clinical settings, depending on your chosen pathway.
Our well-established network of clinical partners includes the Royal Berkshire Hospital, Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust, and others in the region.
These placements offer you excellent opportunities to gain practical experience, from the very first year of your degree.
This degree is geared towards careers within the NHS and its supporting industries.
Our Clinical and Medical Sciences pathway has been designed specifically to provide a foundation for graduate-entry medical school.
You could also enter a career in the pharmaceutical industry, or pursue further medical study.
All pathways allow you to work in hospital, pharmaceutical or research laboratories.
You may also decide to study for higher research degrees.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-medical-science-with-professional-experience:
Train to work at the forefront of modern medicine with our BSc Medical Science with Professional Experience course.
This course includes a year of professional experience, built into your degree.
It offers a fantastic opportunity to gain valuable, real-life experience and develop your skills and knowledge in clinical practice.
Tailored pathway options allow you to specialise in topical, cutting edge areas of medical science:
Gain hands-on experience during a professional placement year in a clinical setting.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/msci-medical-science:
Gain the knowledge, research and practical experience to work at the forefront of modern medicine on this integrated MSci Medical Science course.
This course flexibility allows you to explore a variety of topics, ranging from molecular, genetic and cellular levels through to diagnostics, treatments and interventions.
With a strong emphasis on research and practical, this flexible course explores a wide variety of topics.
In your first year, you cover the core subjects on which your future studies will be based.
You will learn about biochemical, molecular and cell biology basis of life, and study the fundamentals of microbiology.
In your second year, while continuing to enhance your practical skills, you will shape your studies to suit your interests and career aspirations.
You can expand focus on medical science subjects ranging from haematology to biochemistry, or dive into the fundamental principles of physics for medicine.
Then in your final year, you'll undertake a research-intensive project in biomedical research laboratories.
You'll engage in cutting edge research and develop your ability to work independently.
Between your second and third year, you will have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement, see our MSci Medical Science with Professional Experience course .
Students in previous years have worked at Diamond Light Source, Public Health England, GSK, and Covance.
Paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust are available.
For more information, please visit the School of Biomedical Sciences website.
This degree offers a broad curriculum preparing you for a career in medical research, clinical trials, drug development, public health, with opportunities to pursue further studies in clinical or biomedical fields.
You will also develop  valuable transferable skills ensuring you are highly desirable in a wide variety of careers.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/msci-medical-science-with-professional-experience:
Gain the knowledge, research and practical experience to work at the forefront of modern medicine on this integrated MSci Medical Science with Professional Experience course.
You can focus on medical science subjects ranging from haematology to biochemistry, or dive into the fundamental principles of physics for medicine.
You will undertake an Advanced Research Project during your final year, working alongside academics on cutting-edge medical research.
Between your second and third year, you will have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement.
We also offer a four-year version of this degree, MSci Medical Science , that does not include an integrated placement year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-microbiology:
Expand your knowledge of some of the planet's most dominant life forms, and take part in research projects with a global impact on this BSc Microbiology course.
As part of the UK's oldest microbiology department you can develop laboratory skills in purpose-built microbiology facilities and be taught by world-leading experts, with particular strengths in virology and bacteriology.
92% of School of Biological Sciences students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 92.3% of responders).
You'll benefit from membership of the Microbiology Society and our strong links with industry.
Our graduates are also eligible for membership of The Royal Society of Biology and can apply for Chartered Biologist status.
Through the course, you will learn about the fundamental properties, genetics and physiology of diverse microbes.
Options will then allow you to focus on areas that most interest you, including medical, environmental or food microbiology.
BSc Microbiology has a strong practical basis, and you will learn a wide variety of techniques such as microbial genetics, biochemistry and propagation.
During your final year you will have the chance to spend three months working on an original research project of your choice.
Recent projects have included the molecular engineering of viruses, and the mechanisms of bacterial pathogenicity and host colonisation.
Student in previous years have worked at Public Health England’s Porton Down and Colindale laboratories, GSK, AstraZeneca and Covance.
You will be able to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Microbiology Society.
Additionally, you can take a work placement module.
Learn about ecological concepts and how they can be applied in the field and the laboratory.
You’ll learn about how species interact with each other and their environment, how biodiversity assembles in communities and forms entire ecosystems and biomes, and how human activities are influencing many ecological processes.
Discover the range of marine habitats, environments and associated biodiversity present within the biosphere, and the major physical and chemical mechanisms underpinning oceanic processes.
Deepen your knowledge and understanding of the patterns and processes in ecological systems.
Through both lectures and practical sessions, you’ll discover some of the latest methodologies and the new insights they have provided to ecology.
Gain an understanding of the sources of microbial contamination of food and the factors that determine which types of microbes grow and cause spoilage in foods during storage.
You’ll also examine different preservation methods that prevent or slow down microbial growth, and learn about the nature and importance of foodborne illnesses and microbiological hazards in the food industry.
BSc Microbiology graduates have a range of transferable skills that make them highly employable in both scientific and non-scientific job sectors.
Additionally, graduates can become members of the Society of Biology and apply for Chartered Biologist status.
You can move on to a career as a researcher or scientist.
You may also decide to move on to further study or a research studentship at a British or international university.
Past BSc Microbiology graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as Abbot Laboratories, Oxford Biomedica, NHS, Thermo Fisher Scientific, and Civil Service (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Microbiology responders).
I had this amazing opportunity that my lecturer nominated me for - attending the Gatsby Plant Science summer school in York, with senior plant scientists.
It was fun, the scenery was amazing and the people were all really nice.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-microbiology-with-professional-experience:
Expand your knowledge of some of the planet's most dominant life forms, and take part in research projects with a global impact on this BSc Microbiology with Professional Experience course.
You'll benefit from membership of the Society for General Microbiology and strong links with industry.
You will be able to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Society for General Microbiology.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/bsc-microbiology-with-foundation:
Expand your knowledge of some of the planet's most dominant life forms, and take part in research projects with a global impact on this BSc Microbiology with Foundation course.
BSc Microbiology with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
As part of the UK's oldest microbiology department you can develop laboratory skills in purpose-built microbiology facilities and be taught by world-leading experts, with particular strengths in virology and bacteriology.
Through the course, you will learn about the fundamental properties, genetics and physiology of diverse microbes.
You'll benefit from membership of the Microbiology Society and strong links with industry.
BSc Microbiology has a strong practical basis, and you will learn a wide variety of techniques such as microbial genetics, biochemistry and propagation.
During your final year you will have the chance to spend three months working on an original research project of your choice.
You will be able to undertake paid vacation studentships funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Microbiology Society.
You can move on to a career as a researcher or scientist.
You may also decide to move on to further study or a research studentship at a British or international university.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-microbiology:
Expand your knowledge of some of the planet's smallest life forms.
Contribute to research projects with global impact on this integrated MSci Microbiology course.
Take a look at the fascinating world of microbes and their crucial roles in the biosphere.
Choose optional modules and focus your studies on areas that most interest you, including medical, environmental or food microbiology.
This course has a strong practical basis, and you will learn a wide variety of techniques such as microbial genetics, biochemistry and propagation.
In your first year, you will learn about the structure and function of microbes (viruses, bacteria, archaea, fungi and protists), and the interrelationships between microbes, other organisms and the environment.
You will also focus on developing your essential laboratory skills, data handling/interpretation and other key transferable skills.
In your second year, enhance your knowledge of how microbes function and gain a deeper understanding of infectious diseases and the pathogens that cause them, including the mechanisms of treatment and prevention.
Ready for your final year, where you will have the chance to spend three months working on an Advanced Research Project, working alongside academics on cutting-edge medical research.
This will provide you with the opportunity to independently plan, execute, analyse and communicate a research project in a specialised area of microbiology.
Get hands-on experience using our state-of-the-art equipment and facilities including:
We also offer a MSci Microbiology with Professional Experience , where you have the opportunity to carry out a year-long industrial placement between your second and third years We have contacts with numerous microbiology-related companies/organisations within the UK and abroad, ranging from government health agencies and pharmaceuticals to water treatment and biotechnology.
In the past, students have worked at Public Health England’s Porton Down and Colindale laboratories, GSK, AstraZeneca and Covance.
Opportunities also include a paid vacation studentship funded by organisations such as the Wellcome Trust and the Microbiology Society .
During the summer break, you can work on a set project and benefit from valuable training in techniques, experimental design and the interpretation of data.
You’ll be provided with a solid theoretical grounding of important concepts, and trained to undertake practical and theoretical research and database searching skills.
Develop a range of key biomedical research techniques - used in both academic and commercial applications of biomedical science, and learn the most appropriate methods to use when conducting your own research.
Your MSci Microbiology will prepare you for either professional or academic success in the field of microbiology, and the transferable skills you gain will ensure you are highly employable in both scientific and non-scientific job sectors.
Additionally, you can become a member of the Society of Biology and apply for Chartered Biologist status.
Past BSc Microbiology graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as Abbot Laboratories, Oxford Biomedica, NHS, Thermo Fisher Scientific, and Civil Service (Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Microbiology responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biological-sciences-ug/msci-microbiology-with-professional-experience:
Contribute to research projects with global impact on this integrated MSci Microbiology with Professional Experience course.
In your second year, enhance your knowledge of how microbes function and gain a deeper understanding of infectious diseases, including treatment and prevention.
Enhance your employability and put your practical skills to the test with a year-long industrial placement between your second and third years.
We have contacts with numerous microbiology-related companies/organisations within the UK and abroad, ranging from government health agencies and pharmaceuticals to water treatment and biotechnology.
We also offer a four-year version of this degree, MSci Microbiology , that does not include an integrated placement year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ecology-ug/bsc-ecology-and-wildlife-conservation:
Learn about the ways in which living things interact with their environment and apply this knowledge to tackling the biggest challenges facing the world today.
This course will equip you with the skills you need for a career in ecology or wildlife conservation through a combination of classroom learning and hands-on experience in the field.
You will learn to apply knowledge of ecosystems to environmental issues such as habitat conservation, the biological control of diseases, and the protection of the world's rarest plants and creatures.
Most of our staff are actively engaged in research, and our work on wildlife ecology and conservation feeds into undergraduate teaching.
You will also have the opportunity to take part in original research with a potentially global impact.
All graduates are eligible for membership of The Royal Society of Biology and can apply for Chartered Biologist status.
The University of Reading’s award-winning campus is home to over a thousand different animal species and is extremely useful for learning fieldwork skills.
It offers multiple habitats for study, including lakes, hay meadows and woodlands, and allows you to step straight from the laboratory to the field.
Additionally, the University owns a number of large farms, which can be used as sites for final year projects.
You will also be able to practise species identification and ecology skills through field trips to Spain and the tropics.
Furthermore, you can carry out a year-long industrial placement between the second and final years, in order to gain valuable industrial experience.
You can also choose to do a short placement module.
We have strong links with a number of ecological organisations including the RSPB, Environment Agency, and a range of wildlife trusts.
Students in previous years have worked at the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust, RSPB and Environment Agency.
You can also choose to spend a year abroad, typically carrying out research for an academic institute.
24 points, including  HL4 in one acceptable science subject at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Statistics, Psychology, Geography, Environmental Science, Applied Science, Geology, Computer Science.
Gain hands-on understanding of the interactions between organisms, their environment and human activity.
You’ll learn to recognise the diversity and structure of different ecological systems and learn how we monitor and identify organisms.
As you study, you’ll gain practical skills from field visits and biodiversity sampling techniques.
Study the major changes undergoing our planet that have been brought on by anthropogenic activities.
You’ll consider the impact they have on biodiversity, including our soils, rivers, and oceans, and the threats currently posed to land masses and sea levels.
Critically review past, present and future strategies aimed at solving conservation and sustainability challenges.
Learn about ecological concepts and how they are applied in both the field and laboratory.
Explore how species interact with each other and their environment, how biodiversity assembles in communities and forms entire ecosystems and biomes, and how human activities are influencing many ecological processes.
Embark on a journey through the development of our planet – from the early appearance of bacteria to the explosion of marine life in the Cambrian and Ordovician eras and then to land.
You’ll be introduced to the main bacterial, protozoan, plant and animal groups, investigating the innovations that led to their success.
Gain an overview of evolution as you study the fundamental concepts in biology that cause species to change over time.
You’ll consider the impact of forces such as genetic variation and natural selection as well as the major patterns that can be seen throughout evolution.
Study how ecology has evolved rapidly in the age of big data, molecular biology, and citizen science.
Deepen your understanding of the patterns and processes in ecological systems as you discuss the latest methodologies and new insights they have provided.
You’ll explore topics including biochemical cycles and the role of microbes in ecological processes, food webs, ecosystem services, and more.
Study the world of conservation science using examples from the field, gaining an understanding of the inherent conflicts and challenges associated with nature conservation and developing effective tools and methods to address these challenges.
Learn how to handle, analyse, visualise, and interpret diverse types of data.
You’ll apply quantitative (statistical) approaches and present results using various visualisation tools, from graphs to maps based on GIS data.
Study nature in a hotspot of biodiversity.
Visit areas and sites of conservation and biodiversity on this two-week residential summer field course - currently in South Africa, but locations can vary.
Learn about species and ecosystems, the challenges and successes of conservation, and the culture of local communities.
Explore different species of plants and vertebrates and become familiar with different approaches to surveying.
During the trip, you will complete a research project, and learn to collect, analyse and present your data.
Take part in a one-week residential field course that provides an immersive introduction to essential biodiversity field skills.
You’ll enhance your appreciation for British wildlife and learn survey techniques vital for a career in ecology, zoology, or wildlife conservation.
Discover the diversity behind how animal form and function evolved – from small, simple organisms to our familiar modern vertebrates.
You’ll embark on an intensive journey, exploring vertebrate life through a range of theoretical and practical activities and gaining hands-on practical knowledge in the Cole Museum of Zoology.
Uncover a range of marine habitats, environments and associated biodiversity as you study marine environments that range from dark, mysterious and deep trenches to colourful coral reefs.
You’ll study the major physical and chemical mechanisms underpinning oceanic processes, the key aspects of biology and ecology on ocean life, and the ecological impacts of human activities.
Study concepts drawn from geology and biology that provide you with valuable context for the study of modern organisms and ecosystems.
Discover the world of invertebrates that inhabit every corner of the planet.
You will learn of their significance to the entire planetary ecosystem as you explore the weird and wonderful animals that are often overlooked.
You will learn how to identify invertebrates in the Phylum Arthropoda, most commonly insect, and gain a deep understanding of their life cycle and ecology and the significant impact they have on economic, social and scientific discoveries of human society.
Why do animals behave the way they do?
Study the underlying science and principle theories related to animal behaviour.
You’ll focus on nature versus nurture, the theory of the selfish gene, and learn why animals fight or help each other.
Gain an in-depth introduction to the study of paleontology and paleoecology and hands-on practical field research in Dinosaur Provincial Park, Canada.
This physically demanding and unique trip is jointly hosted by Reading, the University of New England (Australia), and the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology (Canada).
You will spend two intensive weeks in the Badlands of Alberta learning about surveys, prospecting, identification, bonebed mapping, and fossil excavation.
You will also benefit from excellent practical and academic skills training with world experts in dinosaur paleontology.
Develop biodiversity skills and practical conversation related to the marine environment.
Using breath-hold, snorkelling or SCUBA diving, you’ll learn the internationally recognised ecological assessment methods and gain an advanced understanding of diverse marine habitats such as rocky coral reef and kelp forest communities.
Gain a comprehensive overview of venoms and poisons and how they are used for defence or predation.
Study a series of animals, plants, and fungi as you learn about the evolution and ecology of them and how they may be used for medicinal purposes.
Discover the range of diseases that can be transmitted to humans from animals, originating from wildlife, livestock, and companion animals.
You’ll study a range of zoonotic disease-causing organisms, their hosts and vectors, the symptoms associated with zoonoses, and the impact they have on human health and the economy.
Example diseases include COVID-19, Lyme disease, Ebola, and rabies.
Examine the scientific basis for crime-scene analysis and the application of scientific techniques, approaches and knowledge needed for solving crimes.
You’ll study key principles and processes of biological sciences through the perspective of criminology and discover how cutting-edge science has been used to solve some of the most complex criminal cases in history.
Study the explosion of urban life and the negative impacts it has had on global flora and fauna.
You’ll consider the impact urban life has had on different species – from those that have not survived it, to those that have exploited them and actively thrive in these novel habitats.
Gain an understanding of the science of conservation biology and its use in the sustainable management of genes, species, communities and habitats.
You’ll learn about the principles and philosophy of conservation, and how it sits within socio-economic reality.
During the course you will develop your communication, information handling, numeracy and problem-solving skills.
Additionally, you can become a member of the Society of Biology and apply for Chartered Biologist status following graduation.
You can go on to work as a trainee in a non-governmental conservation organisation or ecological consultancy.
Alternatively, you could find a role within the government or a government-funded agency, in an area such as pollution mitigation.
You may also decide to become a conservation biologist and typically carry out practical conservation, management or fundraising for local wildlife trusts.
Specialist expertise gained from the course can also apply to a career in the media.
Finally, you will be well-placed to move into research or academia, or pursue further studies.
Past BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as AECOM Game, Wildlife Conservation Trust, Natural England, WSP, and Lidl (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ecology-ug/bsc-ecology-and-wildlife-conservation-with-professional-experience:
With BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation with Professional Experience you will learn about the ways in which living things interact with their environment and apply this knowledge to tackling the biggest challenges facing the world today.
This course will equip you with the skills you need for a career in ecology or wildlife conservation through a combination of classroom learning and hands-on experience in the field.
You will learn to apply knowledge of ecosystems to environmental issues such as habitat conservation, the biological control of diseases, and the protection of the world's rarest plants and creatures.
Additionally, the University owns a number of large farms, which can be used as sites for final-year projects.
Furthermore, you will undertake a year-long industrial placement in your third year to gain valuable industrial experience.
Additionally, you can become a member of the Society of Biology and apply for Chartered Biologist status following graduation.
Alternatively, you could find a role within the government or a government-funded agency, in an area such as pollution mitigation.
Specialist expertise gained from the course can also apply to a career in the media.
Finally, you will be well-placed to move into research or academia, or pursue further studies.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/ecology-ug/bsc-ecology-and-wildlife-conservation-with-foundation:
With BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation with Foundation you will learn about the ways in which living things interact with their environment and apply this knowledge to tackling the biggest challenges facing the world today.
BSc Ecology and Wildlife Conservation with Foundation is a four-year programme that includes a year of foundational study and leads directly into the three-year course.
The University of Reading’s award-winning campus is home to more than a thousand different animal species and is extremely useful for learning fieldwork skills.
Furthermore, you can carry out a year-long industrial placement between the third and final years, in order to gain valuable industrial experience.
You can also choose to do a short summer placement module.
24 points with one acceptable science subject at higher level
You can also register your detail s with us to receive information about your course of interest and study and life at the University of Reading.
Your practical and scientific knowledge, combined with teamwork, communication skills, numeracy, problem-solving ability, and the ability to adapt to changing circumstances, will make you highly desirable to a wide range of employers.
Career options related to your degree include environmental protection, renewable energy, sustainable transport, water, environmental consultancy, conservation biology, geological consultancy, or even applying your specialist expertise within the media.
Our graduates have gone on to work for a range of major organisations including the Environment Agency, Sustrans, Thames Water and the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
You will also have opportunities to take part in original research with a potentially global impact.
There are also plenty of opportunities to get involved with local wildlife and conservation groups including Conserve Reading on Wednesdays (CROW) and the Berks, Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust (BBOWT).
You can become a member of the Society of Biology and can apply for Chartered Biologist status following graduation.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/zoology-ug/bsc-zoology:
Study animals in their natural habitat – gaining expertise in evolution, physiology, behaviour and conservation – with our BSc Zoology degree.
Not many degrees give you the opportunity to get your hands on a lion’s skull at the University’s own museum, but with our three-year BSc Zoology course, that’s just a tiny part of what’s on offer.
Zoology is the science of animals: whether you’re passionate about one particular group of animals, or interested in the subject as a whole, we’ll help you get the most out of your degree.
Many other universities offer a one-size-fits-all, shared first year to all students – from ecologists to biochemists – but, at Reading, you’ll study animals from day one.
Enthusiastic academics from the School of Biological Sciences will teach you about animal life at all levels, from the simplest forms through to birds and mammals.
Your zoology studies will explore the breadth of the animal world, including:
Our wide range of optional modules enables you to follow your specific interests in this vast, fascinating area of study.
96% of BSc Zoology students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 95.5% of responders from BSc Zoology).
In your second year, our field courses could take you to a variety of locations across Europe and beyond.
For example, our Tropical Zoology Field Course module has allowed students to learn first-hand about the amazing wildlife, biodiversity, and conservation efforts in locations such as:
In your final year, you can complete a field or lab-based research project under expert supervision – an opportunity no longer offered in many universities.
Our projects have ranged from studying urban mammals such as hedgehogs, foxes and red kites, to insects and pond or fresh-water animals, to animals in zoos.
Your studies will be based in our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building .
This space features:
The building is also home to the Cole Museum of Zoology .
The collection, comprising more than 3,500 natural specimens, provides a fantastic resource for biological scientists and the wider community.
The Museum will feature extensively in your zoology studies, offering unique opportunities to develop hands-on skills in taxonomy and natural history conservation.
As a student, you can also volunteer at the museum and receive training in curation.
Our degree offers placement opportunities, either as a one-year option with our BSc Zoology with Professional Experience , or as a short summer module.
Placements are available across the UK and around the world – past students have travelled to regions as diverse as Canada, New Zealand, the Azores, and Iceland.
Recent placements have included:
You’ll receive advice and support to find your ideal placement.
For more information, visit our Zoology placement webpages .
As part of your degree, you can apply to study for a year abroad at one of our partner universities across the world.
Visit the Study Abroad website for more information.
Study the structure and organisation of cells as you discover the common features found in all life.
You will focus on the differences between cells that are essential for creating diversity and explore major concepts in cell biology and genetics.
You will explore key processes such as repairing damage and cell division, discovering how these processes are coordinated as cells work together to form multicellular life.
Discover the structural and physiological diversity of animal life.
You will develop your understanding of physiological systems across a diverse range of taxonomic groups.
As you study, you will explore the basic underlying body plans and structural organisation of animals, including their development and growth, to understand how structure, function and environment allow animals to survive and thrive.
Explore the major changes our planet is facing as a result of anthopogenic activities, industrial activity and worldwide development that is impacting our atmosphere, soils, rivers and oceans.
You will study the major threats affecting ecosystems and biodiversity and consider how conservation science, nature-based and technological solutions, and sustainability can counterbalance them.
Gain an overview of evolution as you study the fundamental processes related to species change over time.
You will consider factors that force and hinder change in the evolutionary process, focussing on genetic variation and natural selection, to develop an advanced understanding of diverse areas of modern biology.
Learn about ecological concepts and how they can be applied both in the field and in the lab.
You will learn how species interact with each other and their environment, how biodiversity assembles in communities and forms entire ecosystems, and how human activity influences ecological processes.
Learn how life on our planet develops as you gain a broad understanding of the diversity and evolutionary history that has shaped the world today.
You will look at the key groups of organisms in water and on land, and at the impact of major events such as climate change and mass extinction.
Embark on an intensive journey exploring vertebrate life.
You will focus on functional anatomy, physiology, and phylogenetic diversity of vertebrates, and gain advanced hands-on knowledge via the Cole Museum of Zoology teaching collection and training in dissection skills.
Learn key skills for managing, handling, analysing, visualising and interpreting diverse types of data.
You will learn to apply quantitative (statistical) approaches and how to present results using various visualisation tools, from graphs to maps based on GIS data.
Embark on a one-week residential field course that will provide you with an immersive introduction to essential biodiversity field skills.
You will gain an enhanced appreciation for British wildlife and learn survey techniques that are vital for carers in ecology, zoology and wildlife conservation.
Study the structure and function of cells and the macromolecules that define them.
You will expand your understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which cells work and how they are regulated as you explore complex processes such as cell division, signalling, differentiation and movement.
Deepen your understanding of the patterns and processes in the ecological system as you study the latest methodologies and the insights they have provided to ecology.
You will learn about the form and function of communities, ecosystems and biomes as you cover topics such as biochemical cycles and the role of microbes in ecological processes, food webs and ecosystem services.
Explore the range of marine habitats, environments and associated biodiversity present within the biosphere.
You will gain an overview of the major physical and chemical mechanisms unpinning oceanic processes and learn key aspects of biology, ecology and environment physiology of marine organisms, and how we manage and conserve these ecosystems.
Learn the scientific methods and principle theories used to study animal behaviour.
You will focus on topics such as nature vs nurture, the theory of the selfish gene, why animals fight, and why and when they help each other.
Gain context on the studies of modern organisms and ecosystems as you learn the principles of palaeontology and paleoecology.
You will cover diverse topics including palaeoclimate archives and proxies, taphonomy, palaeobiodiversity, stratigraphy, paleobiogeography, life histories and biology of extinct species, macroevolution, extinction, the fossil record and earth history.
Discover the world of conservation science and how it works in practice as you explore the inherent conflicts and challenges associated with nature conservation.
You will develop effective tools and methods to accept and address these challenges, and learn how data-driven conclusions can generate conservation solutions in our modern world.
Study the key concepts of bioformatics and computational biology.
You will learn bioinformatic techniques that will assist with vital programming and computation skills, covering the basics of algorithms such as machine learning and agent-based systems.
You will use practical examples to demonstrate the power of bioinformatics for enhancing research in ecology, zoology, biomedicine, biochemistry and pharmacy.
Research Project
Embrace an exciting and unique opportunity to develop biodiversity survey skills and learn about practical conservation of the marine environment.
Using breath-hold, snorkelling or SCUBA diving, the course will teach you internationally recognized ecological assessment methods and give you advanced understanding of diverse marine habitats.
Gain a comprehensive overview of venoms and poisons, focussing on those from animals, plants and fungi.
You will learn about the evolution and ecology of venoms and poisons, the main principles of pharmacology, and consider how venoms and poisons may be useful for medicinal purposes.
Study diseases originating from wildlife or livestock and the issues they pose for the health and well-being of people, companion animals, live stock and wild animals.
You will study disease-causing organisms, their hosts, vectors and symptoms, and how they can be controlled.
Learn the scientific basis for crime scene analysis and the application of scientific techniques, approaches and knowledge to the solving of crimes.
You will study key principles and processes of biological sciences through the perspective of criminology and cover topics including forensic pathology, forensic anthropology, forensic entomology, and forensic acarology.
Explore the concept of urban areas and how they have, and continue to, change over time in different parts of the world.
You will critically evaluate how different factors affect interactions between human residents and wildlife as you consider population dynamics, reproductive output, and behaviour of urban species and communities.
Apply evolutionary principles to understand the causes of modern medical conditions.
Gain an appreciation of how our evolutionary history has shaped some of the most important medical problems of our time, such as infectious diseases, obesity, aging, and mental health disorders.
Through studying relevant evolutionary processes, you will understand the implications of evolutionary biology for human health and disease.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students:
            The University of Reading will charge undergraduate home tuition fees at the upper limit as set by the UK government for the relevant academic year.
The fee cap for 2026/27 hasn't been confirmed yet.
Please check the fees and funding webpage for the latest information.
The annual fee for 2025/26 is £9,535.
New international students: £30,650 per year for 2026/27 then fixed per year at this fee for the standard duration of your course.
Overall, 90% of graduates from the School of Biological Sciences are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all School of Biological Sciences responders).
Past BSc Zoology graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as ECUS, Jacobs, Macquarie Group, RSK Group and Civil Service (based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2022/23; includes BSc Zoology responders).
As a numerate scientist, you will graduate with transferable skills for a wide range of animal-based or biological sciences-based career.
Our BSc Zoology graduates enter a variety of careers, including:
If you’re interested in postgraduate study, we offer a number of zoology master’s courses .

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/zoology-ug/bsc-zoology-with-professional-experience:
Study animals in their natural habitat – gaining expertise in evolution, physiology, behaviour and conservation – with our BSc Zoology with Professional Experience degree.
Not many degrees give you the opportunity to get your hands on a lion’s skull at the University’s own museum, but with our four-year BSc Zoology with Professional Experience course, that’s just a tiny part of what’s on offer.
This degree includes an integrated year-long work placement, between your second and final year.
Your studies will be based in our £60m Health and Life Sciences building .
These are the modules that we currently offer for 2026/2027 entry.
You will gain an enhanced appreciation for British wildlife and learn survey techniques that are vital for careers in ecology, zoology and wildlife conservation.
Visit areas and sites of conservation and biodiversity on this two-week residential summer field course, currently travelling to South Africa, but locations can vary.
You will gain an appreciation of how our evolutionary history has shaped some of the most important medical problems of our time, such as infectious diseases, obesity, aging, and mental health disorders.
New UK/Republic of Ireland students:
            the University of Reading will charge undergraduate home tuition fees at the upper limit as set by the UK government for the relevant academic year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/zoology-ug/bsc-zoology-with-foundation:
Study animals in their natural habitat – gaining expertise in evolution, physiology, behaviour and conservation – and develop core academic skills with our BSc Zoology with Foundation degree.
This four-year programme includes a foundation year that leads directly into the three-year BSc Zoology course.
After successful completion of your foundation year, you’ll progress onto our three-year BSc Zoology degree.
Not many degrees give you the opportunity to get your hands on a lion’s skull at the University’s own museum, but with our BSc Zoology course, that’s just a tiny part of what’s on offer.
The costs of these trips are not included, although all are subsidised.
Visit areas and sites of conservation and biodiversity on this two-week residential summer field course, currently travelling to South Africa - locations can vary.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biomedical-engineering-ug/beng-biomedical-engineering:
On our BEng Biomedical Engineering course you will study with expert academics, develop your transferable skills, and learn how to diagnose, prevent and treat disease in this new and emerging field.
Do you have an innate curiosity for human physiology and a keen understanding of mathematics?
Learn how the brain works, what techniques exist to monitor different tissues in the human body and to diagnose, prevent and treat disease and restore bodily functions.
You will engage in practical lab-based classes enhancing different practical skills.
You'll also experience techniques such as immuno-fluorescent labelling, microscopy, DNA and protein analysis, EEG recordings, cell culture and aseptic technique and analytical methods.
We are conducting world-renowned research in the fields of neural engineering, rehabilitation and medical technology.
During your degree you will have the opportunity to undertake original research in the above fields, while completing your final-year project.
Our new £60m Health and Life Sciences building opened in 2020.
As the new home of the School of Biological Sciences, it offers state-of-the-art research and teaching laboratories, seminar rooms, and plenty of study and social space, including a café.
You could also opt for the four-year variant of this course, BEng Biomedical Engineering with Professional Experience , that include a one-year placement within the industry between your second and final years of study.
It is possible to start the three-year BEng programme without a year in industry and still undertake a placement, should you decide to do so - the decision on the placement can be postponed until the start of your second year.
The School of Biological Sciences has excellent relationships with a number of organisations in the world of biomedical engineering, including GSK and Microchip Ltd.
24 points, including  HL4 in Maths/Physics AND one other science at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Statistics, Psychology, Geography, Environmental Science, Applied Science, Geology, Computer Science
Analyse engineering problems using the techniques of series, complex numbers, differentiation, integration, differential equations, statistics, vectors, and matrix algebra.
Gain practical programming skills in developing and writing your own programs.
By the end of the module, you will be able to predict the outputs a segment of code will produce.
Discover the different types of sensors used for biomedical application areas, their characteristics and principles of operation.
You’ll learn how to choose appropriate sensors and transducers for a given application and be able to calculate how the output signals they produce are related to the quantities they are sensing.
Discover the fundamentals of processing biomedical signals, including analysing signals in both the time and the frequency domain.
Acquire an understanding of the concepts, practice and management associated with developing a technological solution from initial problem statement to delivery for a given biomedical problem.
Enhance your ability to critically evaluate scientific literature, effectively communicate ideas, handle data and apply appropriate quantitative approaches and use a combination of lectures, workshops, academic tutor led sessions and group activities to help you to develop and refine these skills.
Gain fundamental knowledge in biomechanics, soft robotics, and material science applications.
You’ll explore topics like flexible electrodes, advanced soft robotics, and assistive robotics.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of assistive technology (AT).
You'll learn the design principles, gain hands-on experience, demonstrate the equipment, and code the signal of an assistive technology, brain-computer interface (BCI).
Learn how to create medical images for clinical analysis and treatment.
Through lectures and practical sessions, you’ll explore the fundamentals, operation, design and application of MRI, CT, and ultrasound imaging systems.
Explore the intriguing fields of materials science, synthetic biology, and tissue engineering.
You'll gain an understanding of synthetic biology and its initial focus on the cellular level, as well as the more recent focus on tissue engineering, which involves the development of implantable devices and tissue replacement to restore lost organs and their function.
You'll learn how the principles underpinning synthetic biology and the synthetic biology design cycle.
This degree is geared towards a career in the biomedical sector.
You will learn how to design and execute experiments, work in teams, use statistics and computing to interpret data and write essays and reports.
You will also develop transferable skills that are highly valued by employers, giving you the advantage in a competitive job market.
Students studying biomedical engineering have pursued careers in a range of fields, including research, pharmaceutical development, clinical engineering, and software development.
Find out more about the Department
See our Facebook page.
Check out our Instagram page.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/biomedical-engineering-ug/beng-biomedical-engineering-with-professional-experience:
On our BEng Biomedical Engineering with Placement Experience course you will study with expert academics to develop your transferable skills, and put them into practice during a year-long placement in industry.
Between your second and final year of study, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a one-year placement within the industry.
This will allow you to gain valuable experience in the field and build a network of colleagues.
During your placement year, you will still be a student of the University of Reading and will have regular contact with an academic overseeing placements.
We also offer a variation of this course, BEng Biomedical Engineering , a three-year long course without the placement year.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/biological-sciences:
Biological sciences is the investigation of the web of life, from cellular processes to whole organisms, including how they interact with one other and the environment.
The opportunities for research and study in the School of Biological Sciences are wide-ranging in scope.
Whether you're interested in a career at the forefront of biomedical discovery, or are keen to preserve fragile habitats and threatened wildlife, this is the place for you.
Our School is split into three sections: Biomedical Sciences, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and Biomedical Engineering.
We cover biochemistry, medical science, microbiology, molecular science and more, aiming to extend life, ease pain, combat diseases and enhance the healthy state.
We teach and research in exciting fields such as phylogenetics, bioinformatics, protein structure, evolution and population biology.
We investigate the living world at all scales, aiming to change the way people think about, and study, ecology and evolution.
Our award-winning Whiteknights campus is a rich, biodiverse environment, allowing our staff and students to use it as their laboratory.
We bring the power of engineering to the field of healthcare, designing technology to manage diseases and improve health.
We work towards discoveries in biomedical engineering, brain computer interface, neurorehabilitation, assistive technology, neuroscience, biomaterial, robotics and electrical engineering.
We conduct high-impact research in areas of great relevance to the challenges faced by society and the planet as a whole.
Our wide-ranging research seeks to understand and combat human disease and uncover new ways to protect the natural world.
The School of Biological Sciences is a demographically and culturally diverse place to work and study.
We hold the Athena SWAN Silver Award, which recognises the steps taken to advance gender equality at all levels of our School.
Our community of staff includes internationally renowned academics, recognised for the excellence of their teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-pharmacology:
Develop the knowledge and skills to work as a pharmacologist within the pharmaceutical or life sciences industries with our new BSc Pharmacology.
This course has been designed to align with the British Pharmacological Society's core curricula and was developed with the needs of the pharmaceutical industry in mind.
You'll work with academics across our Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy , Biological Sciences , and Mathematical, Physical and Computation Sciences schools.
Reading is one of the UK's top 10 universities for pharmacy and pharmacology (Daily Mail University Guide, 2025), and we have experts in pharmacology, pharmaceutical chemistry and pharmacy practice, as well as biomedical science and mathematics, who are all working on different aspects of drug research.
91% of BSc Pharmacology students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2025, 90.8% of responders from BSc Psychology).
On this course you will also have the option of spending a year in industry with our four-year BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry.
Facilities
During your studies, you'll use our purpose-built suite of teaching laboratories and have access to our research facility.
You'll also study in our new £60m Health and Life Sciences Building, which offers state-of-the-art research and teaching laboratories, seminar rooms, and plenty of study and social space.
MPharm
Our BSc Pharmacology course will not result in qualification to work as a pharmacist.
24 points, including  HL4 in Chemistry and Biology at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Chemistry, Biology
Expand your knowledge of human physiology to understand the normal function of the human body.
You’ll cover the structure of mammalian cells and cellular functions which are often targeted therapeutically and biochemical pathways that underpin these processes.
Understand how medicines are sourced, developed, and manufactured.
You’ll discover how quality is assured for patient safety and consider the use of natural and synthetic products.
Discover the effects of drugs on the human body and how to effectively explain drug action to different audiences.
You'll explore how drugs are discovered, designed, developed, and delivered.
Gain an overview of basic mathematical and statistical concepts in pharmacology, which will ensure that you have the skills to succeed in this field of study.
Through simulated and hands-on experiments, you’ll develop expert knowledge of core laboratory and generic study skills that will help you to conduct pharmacological research and solve problems.
To prepare you for your placement, you’ll be provided with mentoring, feedback, and advice on the application process, along with employment related skills such as CV writing and peer support.
Apply pharmacology and physiological systems from molecule to patient.
This will focus on the different classes of molecular drug targets in treating renal, respiratory, and cardiovascular diseases.
Consider how chemical structure impacts activity and stability, using quantitative methods to collect, process, analyse, and present research findings.
This involves using in vivo, ex-vivo and in vitro techniques via simulated and hands-on experimentation.
This module will further explore the complex and fascinating systems of the human body, focusing on the endocrine system, skin, reproduction, ear, nose, and throat.
We will use a systems-based approach where you will explore the functional requirements that drive the structure of the whole body and its functional capabilities.
We will emphasise on the clinical relevance of the topics covered and their importance in understanding and diagnosing various medical conditions.
You’ll use mathematical and statistical approaches to gain understanding of the modelling process.
Learning how to interrogate data, you’ll draw inferences from data and formulate, solve, and investigate systems using mechanistic modelling.
Gain insight on your career direction with mentoring and feedback on the application process for placement.
This will increase your knowledge and confidence of psychometric and video testing, interview, and assessment centre techniques.
Under the direction of an academic supervisor, you’ll lead a laboratory-based research project.
This original research will form the basis of a project write-up, poster session and final project viva.
Advance your knowledge of drug action in various contexts, from treating cancer and pain to the misuse of ‘lifestyle’ drugs.
You’ll consider healthcare guidelines for medicines, adverse effects on embryonic development, and ethical principles of research.
Participate in a lab-based experiment on the measurement of electrical activity in brain slices, collecting data to prepare a formative report.
This will provide you with knowledge of brain function and drug-related alterations.
BSc Pharmacology is ideal for aspiring pharmacologists.
The UK is a world leader in pharmaceuticals, contributing nearly £14m to the UK economy and investing large sums into research and development.
As well as initial drug discovery, expertise in pharmacology can also be used in areas such as clinical trials, manufacturing, regulatory affairs, patenting, and sales and marketing.
Overall, 96% of graduates from Reading  School of Pharmacy are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data (c) HESA 2025, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23, includes all Reading School of Pharmacy responders).
BSc Pharmacology is also excellent preparation for further study at master's and PhD level.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-pharmacology-with-year-in-industry:
Develop the knowledge and skills to work as a pharmacologist within the pharmaceutical or life sciences industries with our new BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry.
Reading is one of the UK's top 10 universities for pharmacy and pharmacology (the Daily Mail University Guide, 2025), and we have experts in pharmacology, pharmaceutical chemistry and pharmacy practice, as well as biomedical science and mathematics, who are all working on different aspects of drug research.
Your year in industry
Gain key graduate employability skills and experience during your third year, when you’ll participate in a placement with one of our industry partners.
According to the Institute for Fiscal Studies, pharmacology has, on average, the fifth biggest impact on lifetime earnings of any degree subject.
A specialist degree like pharmacology allows you to explore exciting career paths such as drug discovery, development and marketing, regulatory affairs, product registration, and clinical trials, setting it apart from general biomedical science courses.
Britton, J et al.,2020, The impact of undergraduate degrees on lifetime earnings .
During your studies, you’ll use our purpose-built suite of teaching laboratories and have access to our research facility.
Our BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry course will not result in qualification to work as a pharmacist.
BSc Pharmacology is also excellent preparation for further study at master’s and PhD level.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/bsc-pharmacology-with-foundation:
Develop the knowledge and skills to work as a pharmacologist within the pharmaceutical or life sciences industries with our new BSc Pharmacology with Foundation.
Reading is one of the UK's top 10 universities for pharmacy and pharmacology (the Daily Mail University Guide, 2025) and we have experts in pharmacology, pharmaceutical chemistry and pharmacy practice, as well as biomedical science and mathematics, who are all working on different aspects of drug research.
On this course you will also have the option of spending a year in industry with our four-year BSc Pharmacology with a Year in Industry .
Our BSc Pharmacology with Foundation course will not result in qualification to work as a pharmacist.
24 points, including  HL3 in Biology and Chemistry at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry
BTEC
BSc Pharmacology with Foundation is ideal for aspiring pharmacologists.
The UK is a world leader in pharmaceuticals, contributing nearly £14 million to the UK economy and investing large sums into research and development.
BSc Pharmacology with Foundation is also excellent preparation for further study at master's and PhD level.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/medical-sciences-ug/mpas-physician-associate-studies:
Train to become a fully qualified physician associate with our MPAS Physician Associate Studies programme.
Gain the skills and knowledge to become a physician associate: a healthcare professional trained in the medical model, being developed across the NHS.
As a member of a medical team, you'll work under the supervision of doctors in hospitals and GP practices, supporting the diagnosis and treatment of patients.
Taught by experts from the School of Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy and the School of Biological Sciences , this course offers:
This course is approved by the General Medical Council.
The first two years will equip you with a strong biological science base, and the ability to apply this learning to inform medical practice.
These two years align with our BSc Medical Science degree.
Alongside your scientific learning, you will also acquire:
During the final two years of the programme, your learning will mirror our established MSc Physician Associate Studies .
Complete placements within many areas of medical practice, across a variety of hospital and community settings.
In the first two years, you will undertake mini work-shadowing placements to understand the working environment of the NHS.
During your third year, you will undertake longer periods of placement in primary/secondary healthcare settings.
In your final year this will increase so that you are on placement four to five days most weeks, rotating around multiple healthcare settings to ensure that you are well prepared to practise anywhere as a physician associate upon qualification.
The responsibility for education, training and professional standards for physician associates sits with the General Medical Council (GMC).
Graduates who pass the Reading MSc programme must then pass the Physician Associate Registration Assessment (PARA) and will then be able to register with the GMC.
30 points, including  HL5 in Biology, plus minimum C (HL4) in Chemistry at higher level
Address key questions related to your future career.
You’ll develop and refine the skills required of a healthcare professional such as communication, reflection, numeracy, statistics, and sourcing and interpreting scientific literature.
Discover the basics of nutrition, food, diet, and the impacts of these on health.
You’ll consider how to promote healthy living choices for patients and study wider concepts in lifestyle, health, and disease.
Putting your learning into practice, you’ll complete placements in hospital and simulated environments, learning from healthcare professionals to develop reflective practice, communication, and problem-solving skills.
Collate and apply concepts in anatomy and physiology to selected pathologies, deepening your understanding of how the body works and what is unhealthy, as well as how we treat disease.
The topics of cancer, neurodegeneration and musculoskeletal  disorders will form the basis of the module through which you will apply these concepts.
Gain the skills required for continuing professional development by exercising personal responsibility and decision-making on clinical placement.
Placement experience is combined with classroom discussion to reflect on your experience.
This will support you in exercising personal responsibility, decision-making and continuing professional development.
Develop research skills and methods for clinical practice.
You’ll understand how to conduct independent, defined research tasks using spreadsheets to capture information and how statistical approaches are used to sample and collect data.
Complete clinical placements in general practice and secondary care to integrate your academic learning with practice.
Exercising initiative and personal responsibility, you’ll make decisions in complex and unpredictable situations.
A Physician Associate (PA) is a healthcare professional trained in the medical model who works as a member of a medical team under the supervision of a doctor or surgeon in a wide variety of workplaces (including GP practices, community health services and all types of hospital care).
PAs support doctors in the diagnosis and management of patients and are trained to perform a number of roles including:
The PA role is flexible and is being developed across the NHS to meet major staffing strategies.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/apd/facilities/cedar:
The Centre for Dairy Research (CEDAR) is a unique, world-renowned facility for applied and strategic animal research, situated at the University of Reading's Hall Farm at Arborfield.
Research at CEDAR addresses many of the key issues for the sustainability of animal production systems, such as environmental impacts, milk and meat composition and consumer health, antimicrobial resistance, and animal behaviour and welfare.
The extensive research capabilities at CEDAR include capacity for individually feeding up to 200 cows with different diets in a commercial environment.
Our applied facilities offer the opportunity to undertake dairy cattle research while the animals remain under typical commercial farm management.
This is essential to ensure that research findings are applicable to real world scenarios.
Recently refurbished digestion and metabolism facilities enable more detailed studies of cattle or sheep, allowing us to study digestive physiology and the effects of diet on methane and nitrogen emissions.
Here, we can measure how efficiently nutrients are used by individual animals and the resulting emissions that are produced.
Using these facilities, we find solutions that improve the sustainability of food production.
Our flexible housing facilities allow us to undertake research ranging from observations of behaviour and welfare to supporting nano-body and vaccine research using a range of species, including beef cattle, sheep, poultry, and llamas.
Our Meat and Growth Research Unit enables us to not only monitor the growth of a range of species but also assess the nutritional and compositional quality of the products they produce.
Recent studies include research on feed efficiency and gut health, gut microbiology, vaccine development, and behaviour research.
Working with colleagues in Food and Nutritional Sciences, we also assess eating quality and undertake taste testing and impacts on consumer preference.
The DiverseForages Project was a five-year study (2016 to 2020) funded by the Sustainable Agriculture Research and Innovation club (SARIC), led by the University of Reading in collaboration with Duchy College, Rothamsted North Wyke, and Cotswold Seeds Ltd.
The project compared the performance of more diverse, multiple species pastures with conventional fertilised ryegrass pasture within ruminant grazing systems.
Results from the study have shown that for established non-fertilised diverse pastures (or 'herbal leys') biomass yield was the same (or sometimes better) than the nitrogen fertilised ryegrass control, and that the cattle grazing on them grew at the same rate as cattle grazing the control nitrogen fertilized sward.
As well as the environmental and economic benefits gained from reduced nitrogen fertiliser use, the diverse forages also gave resilience to extreme weather and provided ecosystem services such as improved biodiversity.
The project has gained substantial interest from farmers, environmental organisations, and policy makers due to the potential for more diverse forages to be an extremely sustainable feed source for grazing ruminants.
Visit the Diverse Forages Project YouTube channel
Funded by DEFRA and AHDB Dairy, this project is a collaborative study led by the University of Reading to investigate the long-term implications of feeding lower protein diets to improve protein efficiency in dairy production systems.
At CEDAR, 215 cows have been followed for up to three full lactations to assess the effects of feeding differing levels of protein in their diets.
This six-and-a-half year project is one of the most comprehensive protein feeding studies in dairy cows that has been performed to date, and is unprecedented in its scale and duration.
The vast data set includes measurements of milk yield and composition, diet intake, nitrogen metabolism, health and fertility.
In general, results suggest some reductions to dietary protein are possible without negative impacts on animal health and fertility and that individual animals vary in their protein use efficiency.
This suggests the possibility to select for more efficient and therefore more sustainable animals in the future.
The effect of drinking milk on human health has been the subject of much debate in recent years.
Professor Ian Givens has led a number of critically acclaimed research projects in this area and in 2015 was awarded the prestigious Innovator of the Year Award for his most recent collaborative project in this field: the MRC-funded RESET study.
During this study, cows at CEDAR were fed a diet that was formulated to reduce the proportion of saturated fatty acids (SFA) produced in their milk and replace them with beneficial mono-unsaturated fatty acids (MUFA).
This modified milk was made into butter, cheese and UHT milk, which was then included in the diet of a cohort of volunteers who were assessed for effects of the reduced-SFA dairy products on indicators of cardiovascular and metabolic health.
In 2017, CEDAR was successful in a bid to become a LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming) innovation centre.
The Centre for Dairy Research joins a select group of prestigious educational organisations aligned with LEAF's mission of sustainable farming.
The aim of LEAF Innovation Centres is to provide robust scientific data on how to minimise the environmental impact of both livestock and arable farming while maintaining high levels of quality food production that can be disseminated through LEAF to the agricultural community.
LEAF is also well known for organising Open Farm Sunday, a yearly event that sees thousands of farms across the UK open their doors to the general public for an afternoon of educational farm tours and activities.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/foundation-programmes-ug/bsc-bioveterinary-sciences-with-foundation:
Gain the expertise to succeed in an animal-related career with our BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Foundation degree.
This four-year programme includes a foundation year that leads directly into our three-year BSc Bioveterinary Sciences course.
The foundation year will provide you with the skills and knowledge you need to succeed at university.
You’ll develop core skills in academic study, writing, mathematics, and research, as well as subject-specific skills in biology, ecology and sustainability.
Bioveterinary scientists play a vital role in addressing the challenges facing our society by:
At Reading, you’ll develop the specialist knowledge, research expertise, and laboratory skills to tackle these global challenges.
92% of students said teaching staff are good at explaining things, 100% said the course challenged them to achieve their best work, and 100% said the course developed the knowledge and skills that they think they will need for their future.
71% of final year students from Reading's Department of Animal Sciences responded (National Student Survey 2024).
You’ll gain a solid grounding in biosciences and an understanding of animal function from molecular to whole-animal level.
Your studies will cover:
You will learn how to apply this knowledge in the management of animal health and welfare in a range of settings, including farms, zoos, and domestic households.
You’ll also gain vital transferable skills – including team-working, problem-solving, data-handling and statistical analysis skills – which are highly regarded and sought after by employers.
Studying bioveterinary sciences at the University of Reading will enable you to make a difference to the health and wellbeing of animals in an ever-changing world.
Our academics employ a variety of teaching methods – including lectures, tutorials, practical classes and lab work – and provide one-to-one support to help you get the most from your studies.
Throughout your degree, we’ll help you develop essential employability skills.
You’ll benefit from dedicated careers curiosity and skills sessions, exploring the possible jobs you could do and building the communication skills needed for successful applications and interviews.
You can also gain hands-on professional experience and networking opportunities with a placement year, or complete a mini placement in your final year.
If you haven’t decided on your future career, our flexible degree will help you discover new areas of interest, and enable you to adapt and specialise as you learn.
Our specialist research and teaching facilities, including laboratories and University-owned farms, offer excellent opportunities for practical research projects.
Unique facilities such as the Centre for Dairy Research (CEDAR) , with its dairy herd of 550 cows and other livestock species, are used to enhance your learning experience.
The University also has strong connections with local equine centres, veterinary clinics, small animal facilities and zoos, providing further opportunities for field visits and practical work.
You can opt for a 35-hour mini work placement as part of your degree, or gain in-depth insight into the animal or veterinary industries with a year-long work placement leading to our BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Placement Year degree, a five-year version of this course with an integrated work placement between your third and final year.
We have a dedicated placements team who can provide advice and support in finding a suitable placement, as well as developing your CV and interview skills.
You’ll benefit from our links with the animal and bioveterinary science community, including leading organisations and companies in the sector.
Past students have undertaken placements at Danisco Animal Nutrition (DuPont), Paignton, Chester and Jersey Zoos, and the RSPCA.
As part of your degree, you could choose to spend time abroad.
We'll help you to decide where to go and for how long, guide you through the application process, and support you while you're abroad.
To find out more about the benefits of studying abroad, and discover where you could go, visit the Study Abroad website .
24 points, including  HL3 in Biology, plus one other science at higher level
Develop a fundamental understanding of how animals function (and malfunction) as integrated biological systems.
You will study the main organ systems including cardiovascular, respiratory and locomotory systems in the main domestic species.
You will gain key skills in comparative biology as you learn to link examples of animal health, ill health and behaviour to underlying physiology.
Discover key concepts related to animal ethics, behaviour and welfare.
You will consider the functions, evolution, causes and development of normal and abnormal behaviour in animals alongside the concept of sentience.
You will also study the main ethical frameworks and policies designed to protect animal welfare.
Meet people practicing bioveterinary science and develop an understanding of its scope.
You will be introduced to scientific research and develop numeracy and statistical skills, including data handling and computing, as you undertake small research projects.
Learn the science behind how animals feed and develop.
You will study the fundamental nutrition requirements for certain animals, as well as factors that affect feed, and intake and how nutritional values of animal feed can be determined.
You will also study the anatomy and physiology of reproduction in the male and female – from puberty and conception to birth, lactation, rearing and growth of offspring.
Plan and undertake a bioveterinary science research project within a team.
You will learn new experimental techniques, analyse data and report your findings as you enhance your existing skillset, expand your employability and explore career prospects.
Explore the principles of experimental design, data management and visualisation as well as common statistical methods for analysing datasets.
You will gain the ability to collect data in a rigorous way, process that data, analyse and interpret it, and communicate the results.
Develop fundamental knowledge in animal health biology, including immunology and epidemiology.
You will examine the role people play in managing the environment, minimising pathogens and maximising animal defences, while also exploring disease challenges and appropriate disease management strategies.
Develop a detailed understanding of the underlying factors that influence the management of food producing animals.
You will explore a range of livestock production systems (dairy and beef cattle, sheep, pigs and poultry) and investigate how nutrition and management interact with welfare and other factors to determine the long-term sustainability of animal production.
Explore the scientific underpinnings of the management practices of exotic animals, including how animal health and welfare is maintained and what the behaviour of zoo animals or exotic pets can tell us about their needs.
You will study exotic mammals, reptiles, birds and fish and carry out a small-scale behavioural research project.
Build on the skills, knowledge and experiences you have developed throughout your degree in an independent research project.
You will identify a suitable topic, develop a hypothesis, and plan and conduct your project.
Develop an advanced understanding of the factors and processes which affect the composition and eating quality of meat, and the quality and profitability of milk production.
You will develop a series of farm to fork strategies that can be employed by the meat and dairy industry to optimise the organoleptic quality of meat and the environmental impact of milk production.
Study the major contemporary issues impacting the animal sector today, including why they matter and how science and technology research can help address them.
You will focus on the latest methodology in animal welfare research, emerging issues affecting global animal health, and how keeping animals for food production and leisure are impacting our environment.
Consider the scientific evidence that underpins how we manage the most popular companion animals in society, such as domestic dogs, cats and rabbits.
You will study the science behind animal nutrition, including factors that affect their health and welfare and reproductive physiology and behaviour.
Learn about the continuing centrality of horses, ponies and donkeys to leisure, sport and in rural businesses.
You will develop a deeper understanding of equine health, nutrition, welfare and breeding as you consider their specific dietary, behavioural and health needs.
Build on your networking and recruitment skills as you identify, apply for and undertake a short work experience placement (70 hours) related to bioveterinary sciences.
You’ll deepen your self-awareness and engagement with critical self-reflection in the context of career planning and employability.
Study diseases originating from wildlife or livestock and the issues they pose for the health and well-being of people, companion animals, livestock and wild animals.
You will study disease-causing organisms, their hosts, vectors, and symptoms, and how they can be controlled.
Your BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Foundation degree will provide numerical, laboratory, scientific and research skills that offer a route into any animal-based career, whether in industry, research or education.
You could enter scientific, technical and management positions in the agriculture, food and veterinary sectors.
Opportunities are also available in animal health, nutrition or welfare in farm, companion or zoo animal health, nutrition or welfare as well as in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors.
Alternatively, you could use your degree as a stepping stone to a further bachelor’s degree in veterinary medicine or veterinary science, or a postgraduate programme in a specialist aspect of bioveterinary science.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/bioveterinary-sciences-ug/bsc-bioveterinary-sciences-with-placement-year:
Gain the expertise to succeed in an animal-related career, as well as vital industry experience, with our BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Placement Year degree.
You'll gain a solid grounding in biosciences and an understanding of animal function from molecular to whole-animal level.
You'll also gain vital transferable skills – including team-working, problem-solving, data-handling and statistical analysis skills – which are highly regarded by employers.
This four-year course includes an integrated placement year between your second and final year, enabling you to gain in-depth insight into the animal or veterinary industries.
24 points, including  HL4 in Biology and one other science subject at higher level
Acceptable subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Further Maths, Statistics, Psychology, Geography, Environmental Science, Applied Science, Geology, Computer Science, ICT.
You’ll discover their impact on environment and society, and how they cause infections or develop antimicrobial resistance, while exploring different methods of diagnosis, treatment and prevention
Your BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Placement Year degree will provide numerical, laboratory, scientific and research skills that offer a route into any animal-based career, whether in industry, research or education.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/bioveterinary-sciences-ug/bsc-bioveterinary-sciences:
Gain the expertise to succeed in an animal-related career with our BSc Bioveterinary Sciences degree.
92% of students said teaching staff are good at explaining things, 100% said the course challenged them to achieve their best work, and 100% said the course developed the knowledge and skills that they think they will need for their future.
You can opt for a mini work placement as part of your degree, or gain in-depth insight into the animal or veterinary industries with our BSc Bioveterinary Sciences with Placement Year degree, a four-year version of this course with an integrated work placement between your second and final year.
Your BSc Bioveterinary Sciences degree will provide numerical, laboratory, scientific and research skills that offer a route into any animal-based career, whether in industry, research or education.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/surveying-and-construction-management-ug/bsc-building-surveying:
With BSc Building Surveying you will analyse building performance and material lifecycles to establish the cause and effect of building defects.
This course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in building surveying.
You will benefit from the Department's strong links with industry and the surveying profession.
Additionally, the degree is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the Chartered Institute of Building.
(Accreditation is reviewed periodically.
Successful completion of courses accredited by CIOB and RICS satisfies the academic requirements for membership of CIOB and RICS).
As with all of our surveying and construction courses, the programme structure provides an opportunity to explore a range of construction-related disciplines prior to specialising in the final year.
You will be able to transfer onto other courses, such as BSc Quantity Surveying or BSc Construction Management, at the end of your second year if you wish to do so.
A particular emphasis is placed on transferable skills and University of Reading graduates are renowned for rapid progression to senior positions within professional firms.
100% of our research is of international standing (REF 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning) and 100% of our research impact has been classed outstanding or very considerable (REF 2021, combining 4* and 3* submissions – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning).
Many members of staff within the School are active in research and consultancy.
This ensures that the course reflects not only the very best of current practice, but also the latest developments in areas such as Building Information Modelling (BIM) and sustainability.
Your first two years are designed to develop a comprehensive understanding of the disciplines which underpin construction management and the surveying professions.
This will include subjects such as economics, law, professional practice and building technology.
Recurring themes throughout the course include the application of digital technologies, extending from working with hand-held tablets to the use of aerial drones for roof surveys.
There is an especially strong focus on project work and interdisciplinary collaboration.
Recent projects have included a school in the Gambia and another in Malawi.
Furthermore, we place a strong focus on employability and you will have the opportunity to network with industry professionals throughout the course.
You will also be encouraged to take up a placement over the summer between your second and final years, for which you will gain credits which contribute towards your degree.
Additionally, there is an option to spend a year in industry, in the UK or abroad.
(Placements and study abroad opportunities are subject to availability and eligibility guidelines).
The final year of the BSc Building Surveying course is designed to develop the technical and practical skills needed for the inspection and analysis of buildings.
You will also complete a dissertation on a research topic of your choice and a building surveying project, in which you will survey a building in need of repair and refurbishment and will produce a viable recommendation of proposed work for a client.
Additionally you can explore areas of interest through optional modules on subjects such as green innovation, historic built environments, construction contract law, and modern languages.
Between your second and final year you can carry out a paid industrial training placement, lasting a year or a shorter period.
This experience not only provides you with an insight into industry, but is also a valuable opportunity to get to know a range of industry professionals.
Placements can be located anywhere in the UK, and sometimes take place abroad in locations such as the USA, the Far East or the Caribbean.
Firms offering places to our students in the past include Deloitte, Faithful and Gould, Lambert Smith Hampton, Rider Levett Bucknall, and Savills.
You will be given advice and support in finding the ideal placement, writing a CV and interview skills, by our dedicated placements officer (Placements and study abroad opportunities are subject to availability and eligibility guidelines).
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Building Surveying course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
For more information, please visit the School of Construction Management and Engineering's website .
The Reading University Construction Society (RUCS) is our social and cultural hub.
Learn the fundamental concepts of construction science.
You’ll examine the physical properties and mechanics of construction materials, and the physical principles of heat transfer, heat loss, fluid flow, light, sound, acoustics, and electricity.
Learn the importance of information representation and communication in construction projects, and gain practical skills to support your studies.
You’ll learn tools and methods to visually communicate project-related information, and apply current approaches to digital and building information modelling through hands-on work with relevant software applications.
Develop knowledge and understanding of the various materials, technologies and systems employed in the construction of low-rise buildings, with a particular focus on the associated decision-making processes.
Gain an understanding of the economic and financial context of the development and construction of built facilities.
You’ll learn basic economic techniques related to the estimating and cost planning of a proposed project, including financial management from strategic definition and concept, through the design and production stage, to completion and occupancy.
Learn the principles of construction engineering, experimental design, measurement and technical report writing.
You’ll link this theoretical knowledge to physical applications, and learn to evaluate the strengths and limitations of knowledge that’s generated empirically.
Explore key management and strategy approaches, challenges that construction and engineering firms face in a dynamic global context, and the need for effective team performance and the upholding of professional standards of conduct.
You’ll develop your collaborative and analytical skills through teamwork and problem-solving.
Develop your analytical skills by examining various aspects of construction project management.
You’ll learn and assess existing management techniques, focusing on time, cost, quality, resources, risk, logistics and health and safety.
Develop insight into the environmental design, technologies and environmental performance of complex buildings.
You’ll also learn about key concepts related to building construction technologies and building passive and active environmental systems.
Gain hands-on experience in project-based practice, and develop your understanding of different professional roles and practices through role-play.
You’ll work in teams to propose sustainable design and construction solutions in response to client briefs, and get the opportunity to play the role of a surveying or construction professional.
Learn about the development of policies, strategies and procedures for the organisation and management of construction projects, and understand the role of contracts in the construction sector and the fundamentals of construction contract law.
Develop basic skills in the measurement and quantification of construction work.
You’ll look at how these techniques are carried out using traditional and digital technologies.
You’ll learn about the measurement of concrete framed structures for a simple residential building.
Develop a forensic understanding of the decay of buildings and the process of surveying buildings, as well as the role of professional bodies in the delivery of surveying advice.
You’ll study the importance of professional guidance and frameworks in producing technical reports that consider sustainability, ethics, and accessibility in the built environment.
Develop the necessary skills to inspect existing commercial buildings, analyse construction technology, and recommend advice to resolve immediate defects as well as medium- and long-term cost advice for maintenance.
Develop your understanding of the research process, which is essential for preparing your dissertation.
You’ll gain the key research skills required, develop your ideas, and prepare a dissertation proposal with the help of a member of the academic staff as your supervisor.
Gain knowledge of the role of the commercial surveyor, and the identification, diagnosis and remedy of defects in commercial buildings.
Gain an understanding of the business principles and strategic management concepts used in the construction industry.
You’ll learn through several case studies from the global construction market and discussions in interactive sessions.
You’ll be equipped with a strategic management framework as well as methods to develop business models and formulate competitive strategies.
Learn about aspects of construction law within the wider context of roles and contractual and statutory obligations.
You’ll consider the interpretation and application of contracts in the construction sector and the fundamentals of contract dispute resolution methods.
You’ll also develop knowledge of the statutory legal framework that construction professionals practise in, and demonstrate your knowledge of the interpretation of law.
Learn about building information modelling (BIM) as a collaborative information management process supported and shaped by a range of digital tools.
Examine the common considerations of interoperability, information exchanges and life cycle management.
You’ll be exposed to some digital tools and technologies while learning about issues related to information management and planning the process for BIM-supported project delivery.
Examine issues relating to inclusion and accessibility for commercial buildings.
Learn to recognise the diversity of disability and the obligations to provide access under existing legislation.
You’ll be equipped with the knowledge to consider the benefits of implementing more than the legal minimum from both commercial and social perspectives.
Gain an understanding of project-based management within broader political and socio-economic contexts.
You’ll acquire the knowledge and skills to consider how project-based organisations manage their projects in changing conditions such as geopolitical turbulence, globalisation and internationalisation.
Gain an appreciation and understanding of the processes and practices of human resource management and their implementation in the UK construction industry.
You’ll develop perspectives on workplace cultures, the critical role of health and safety management, and communication in construction.
You’ll be equipped with knowledge of strategies for occupational health and safety worker engagement and meaningful consultation between managers and workers.
By selecting this module, you will transfer onto our four-year BSc (Hons) Building Surveying with a Year in Industry course, completing a year-long placement between your second and final year.
Gain professional experience of working in the construction industry and cultivate a reflective approach to practice.
You’ll develop a range of career management and transferable skills, engage in professional development and your route to professional chartership, and consider your placement experience in the context of the wider construction industry.
Understand the role, practice, and application of sustainability for built environment professionals.
You’ll learn to apply the fundamentals of resource efficiency and relevant frameworks to debates and research-based learning.
You'll also discuss the role of natural systems and processes in cities, and their effect on the sustainability of urban areas.
You’ll develop your critical thinking and problem-solving skills in the context of sustainability.
Gain an understanding of the issues of environmental management and assessment, from both conceptual and applied perspectives.
Your learning will be focused on corporate environmental management, which includes drivers, tools, contrasting types and strategies, and environmental assessment, which includes economic assessment tools, environmental risk management and other current practices.
Develop your knowledge of the innovation strategies deployed by construction companies to respond to the target of becoming net zero by 2050.
You’ll learn how environmental policies, company strategies and new sustainable technologies are closely interconnected through detailed case studies.
After graduation you will be well-placed to move into either consultancy or contracting.
The vast majority of our graduates move into careers in building surveying, although some choose to move into other roles within or related to construction such as quantity surveying, project management or estate management.
Alternatively, you can choose to move on to postgraduate study.
Past BSc Building Surveying graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Building Surveying responders).
Visit the School of Construction Management and Engineering's website .
I chose the University of Reading as it has an outstanding reputation as being the leading institution for my subject.
It is documented to be a place of academic excellence which offers students first-class support and great links with industry, as well as stimulating, challenging and relevant courses.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-building-surveying-ifp-september:
Our BSc Building Surveying with International Foundation Year course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in building surveying.
If you want to study building surveying at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Building Surveying with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate building surveying degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Building Surveying degree.
You'll develop key skills and a perspective on a range of contemporary topics that will equip you for study throughout your degree.
You'll be provided with the necessary linguistic foundation for your degree as you learn to use academic sources in a written and spoken context.
You'll learn the neoclassical model of demand and supply, markets failures and the behaviour of firms.
You'll develop basic mathematical and statistical skills and apply these to economic decision making.
Study the idea of sociology as a science and consider how it might differ from the psychological and biological sciences.
You'll develop an understanding of norms and values as you focus on socialization, culture and identity.
Additionally, you'll learn how sociologists collect data as you look at qualitative and quantitative research methods and the factors that influence the choice of research topics and methods.
Advance your understanding of sociology as you look at the significance of consensus and conflict, social structure, and social order and change.
You'll analyse key concepts related to gender, ethnicity, social class, and age and consider how these can be applied to areas including social stratification, mass media, crime, and sociological theory.
You'll critique and evaluate both theoretical and actual methods used to minimise the harm caused through anthropogenic activities whilst recognise the interconnected nature of environmental problems.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-building-surveying-ifp-january:
Our BSc Building Surveying with International Foundation Year course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in building surveying.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/surveying-and-construction-management-ug/bsc-construction-management:
Develop an expertise in the planning and programming of construction operations with this BSc Construction Management course.
This course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in construction management and you will benefit from the Department’s strong links with industry.
Additionally, the degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building and by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Successful completion of courses accredited by CIOB and RICS satisfies the academic requirements for membership of CIOB and RICS.)
Flexible course options
You will be able to transfer onto other programmes, such as BSc Quantity Surveying or BSc Construction Management and Surveying, at the end of your second year if you wish to do so.
A particular emphasis is placed on transferable skills, and University of Reading graduates frequently progress into management roles within contracting firms, taking responsibility for all aspects of project management.
Research with real-world applications
Many members of staff within the School have direct industry experience and continue to be active in research and consultancy.
Your learning
These include subjects such as economics, law, industry practice and building technology.
Recurring themes throughout the course include the application of digital technologies, sustainability and internationalisation.
There is an especially strong focus on project work and on interdisciplinary collaboration.
For example, during your second year, you may work with a real client to plan a live construction project overseas.
Additionally, there is the option to spend a year in industry, in the UK or abroad.
(Placements and study abroad opportunities are subject to availability and eligibility guidelines.)
The final year of the BSc Construction Management course is designed to develop the technical knowledge and practical skills needed for the management of construction operations.
You will also complete a dissertation on a research topic of your choice and a construction management project, in which you will plan the construction operations for a building project.
This experience not only provides you with an insight into industry, but is also a valuable opportunity to get to know a range of industry professionals.
Placements can be located anywhere in the UK, and sometimes take place abroad, in locations such as the USA, the Far East or the Caribbean.
Firms offering places to our students in the past include AECOM, Kier Group, MACE, Morgan Sindall, Taylor Woodrow, and Vinci.
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Construction Management course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
You’ll examine the physical properties and mechanics of construction materials, and the physical principles of heat transfer and heat loss, fluid flow, light, sound, acoustics, and electricity.
Learn the importance of information representation and communication in the construction of building projects, and gain practical skills to support your studies.
You’ll learn tools and methods to visually communicate project-related information, and current approaches to digital and building information modelling through hands-on work with relevant software applications.
Learn the principles of construction engineering methods, experimental design, measurement and technical report writing.
Learn about the development of policies, strategies and procedures for the organisation and management of construction projects.
You'll gain an understanding of the role of contracts in the construction sector and the fundamentals of construction contract law.
You’ll specifically learn about the measurement of concrete framed structures for a simple residential building.
Apply the practical and professional competencies you have developed during the course to complete a realistic professional commission.
You'll work on the design and construction management strategy of a specified development project.
You’ll gain the key research skills required, develop your ideas and prepare a dissertation proposal with the help of a member of academic staff as your supervisor.
You’ll develop the knowledge and skills to consider how project-based organisations manage their projects in changing conditions, such as geopolitical turbulence, globalisation and internationalisation.
Your learning will be focused on corporate environmental management, which includes drivers, tools, contrasting types and strategies; and environmental assessment, which includes economic assessment tools, environmental risk management and other current practices.
You’ll learn to apply the fundamentals of resource efficiency and relevant frameworks to debates and research-based learning, and examine the role of natural systems and processes in cities, and their effect on the sustainability of urban areas.
Develop your knowledge of innovation strategies deployed by construction companies to respond to the target of becoming net zero by 2050.
Learn about the built heritage of England; building conservation principles; legislation, procedures, policy and guidance relating to heritage assets; and the management of change affecting the historic built environment.
You’ll gain experience through reading, project work and visits to buildings and areas of interest.
Gain an understanding of the business principles and strategic management concepts used in the construction industry.
You’ll learn through several case studies from the global construction market and in discussions in interactive sessions.
You’ll be equipped with a strategic management framework as well as methods to develop business models and formulate competitive strategies.
You’ll be exposed to digital tools and technologies while learning about issues related to information management and planning the process for BIM-supported project delivery.
Gain an appreciation and understanding of the processes, practices, and implications of human resource management and their implementation in the UK construction industry.
You’ll be equipped with knowledge of strategies for occupational health and safety worker engagement and meaningful consultation between managers and workers.
You’ll also develop knowledge of the statutory legal framework within which construction professionals practise, and demonstrate your knowledge of the interpretation of law.
Gain hands-on, authentic experience in a live, two-week intensive construction project, supported by a team of academics and industry professionals.
You’ll plan, schedule, cost, and finally build a scaled version of an iconic build or building.
Explore the scale and size of the international construction markets and develop an understanding of how construction projects are financed, designed, engineered, procured, and delivered.
You’ll examine the contrast between advanced industrial nations and low-income countries.
After graduation you will be well-placed to move into careers such as construction, contracting, or site, property or project management.
Past BSc Construction Management graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Construction Management responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-construction-management-ifp-september:
Our BSc Construction Management with International Foundation Year is designed to prepare you for a successful career in construction management and you will benefit from the Department’s strong links with industry.
If you want to study construction at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Construction Management with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate construction management degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Construction Management degree.
You'll develop an understanding of norms and values as you focus on socialisation, culture and identity.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-construction-management-ifp-january:
Our BSc Construction Management with International Foundation Year course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in construction management and you will benefit from the Department’s strong links with industry.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/surveying-and-construction-management-ug/bsc-construction-management-and-surveying:
With BSc Construction Management and Surveying you will develop a thorough knowledge of technical and managerial issues within the construction sector and open up a wide range of alternative career paths.
This course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in a management position within the construction sector.
You will benefit from the Department’s strong links with industry and with the surveying professions.
Additionally, the degree is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and by the Chartered Institute of Building.
Flexible course options As with all of our surveying and construction courses, the programme structure provides an opportunity to explore a range of construction-related disciplines prior to specialising in the final year.
You will be able to transfer onto other programmes such as BSc Quantity Surveying at the end of your second year if you wish to do so.
This programme will equip you with a broad knowledge of construction and surveying, and will prepare you for a wide range of roles.
A particular emphasis is placed on transferable skills and University of Reading graduates are renowned for rapid progression to senior management positions in a variety of firms within the construction sector.
You will study in an internationally-renowned department with strong industry links and an outstanding employability rating.
This will include subjects such as economics, law, and building technology.
You will also be encouraged to take up a placement over the summer between your second and final years, for which you will gain credits that contribute towards your degree.
The final year of the BSc Construction Management and Surveying course introduces you to the latest thinking in management technology and provides the opportunity to specialise.
You will also complete a dissertation on a research topic of your choice and a built environment project, in which you will prepare an environmental impact assessment for a building project.
Placements can be located anywhere in the UK, and sometimes take place abroad in in locations such as the USA, the Far East or the Caribbean.
You will be given advice and support in finding the ideal placement, writing a CV and interview skills, by our dedicated placements officer.
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Construction Management and Surveying course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
Apply your practical and professional competencies to a realistic, professional commission.
As part of this work, you'll create a design and building sustainability strategy for a specified development project.
Students must also choose one or two of the following which will constitute their third (and final) compulsory module.
Gain the knowledge and skills to understand the management of project-based organisations and projects in complex institutional settings.
You’ll examine how project-based organisations manage their projects in changing conditions such as geopolitical turbulence, globalisation and internationalisation.
Develop your quantification skills to an advanced level and further explore the costing aspect of building elements in commercial management practices.
You’ll develop an understanding of the principles and practice of measuring building work, and apply them to more advanced forms of construction including aspects of civil works.
You’ll obtain a critical understanding of measurement and documentation as key skills of the quantity surveyor.
Gain knowledge of the role of the commercial surveyor, and the identification, diagnosis and remedy of defects to commercial buildings.
After graduation you will be well-placed to move into careers within consultancy and contracting.
You could embark on a career within areas such as construction management, surveying, and project management.
Past BSc Construction Management and Surveying graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Construction Management and Surveying responders).

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-construction-management-and-surveying-ifp-september:
Our BSc Construction Management and Surveying with International Foundation Year course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in a management position within the construction sector.
If you want to study construction and surveying at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Construction Management and Surveying with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate construction management and surveying degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Construction Management and Surveying degree .
Students must also choose one of the following which will constitute their third (and final) compulsory module.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/surveying-and-construction-management-ug/bsc-quantity-surveying:
With BSc Quantity Surveying you will learn about the mechanisms that determine the cost and price of construction, and how projects can be completed on time, to specification and within budget.
This course is designed to prepare you for a successful career in quantity surveying.
You will benefit from the Department’s strong links with industry and with the surveying profession.
Additionally, the degree is accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the Chartered Institute of Building and by the Board of Quantity Surveyors Malaysia.
Successful completion of courses accredited by CIOB, RICS and BQSM satisfies the academic requirements for membership of CIOB and RICS, and eligibility for registration with BQSM.)
You will be able to transfer onto other programmes, such as BSc Building Surveying or BSc Construction Management, at the end of your second year if you wish to do so.
A particular emphasis is placed on transferable skills and University of Reading graduates are renowned for rapid progression to senior positions within the construction industry, in consultancy and contracting firms.
This knowledge will include subjects such as economics, law, industry practice and building technology.
Recurring themes throughout the course include the application of digital technologies and internationalisation.
The final year of the BSc Quantity Surveying course is designed to you will develop your specialist knowledge of construction economics and contract law, with a particular focus on managing costs throughout the project life-cycle from early design through to building completion and beyond.
You will also complete a dissertation on a research topic of your choice and a quantity surveying project, in which you will prepare a design cost plan for a project.
Additionally you can explore areas of interest through optional modules on subjects such as human resource management, historic built environment, health and safety, and modern languages.
Firms offering places to our students in the past include major consultancies and contractors including AECOM, EC Harris, Faithful and Gould, Gardiner and Theobald, Laing O’Rourke, and Turner and Townsend.
You will be given advice and support in finding the ideal placement, writing a CV and interview skills, by our dedicated Placements Officer (Placements and study abroad opportunities are subject to availability and eligibility guidelines).
As part of the cohort joining the BSc Quantity Surveying course in 2025, you will have the opportunity to secure an annual £1,000 scholarship for each of the three years of the undergraduate degree (subject to conditions).
Gain experience of the basic techniques used in current construction cost management practice, relating to the design, procurement and construction of buildings.
You’ll apply the practical and professional competencies you have developed during the course to completing a pre-construction cost plan for a specified development project, based on a realistic scenario.
You’ll learn to apply the fundamentals of resource efficiency and relevant frameworks to debates and research-based learning, and demonstrate the role of natural systems and processes in cities, and their effect on the sustainability of urban areas.
Gain hands - on , authentic experience in a live, t wo-week intensive construction project, supported by a team of academics and industry professionals.
The vast majority of our graduates move into careers in quantity surveying, although some choose to move into other construction roles such as project management, construction management or cost consultancy.
Past BSc Quantity Surveying graduates at Reading have gone on to work for employers such as:
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2020 - 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2017/18 - 2021/22; includes BSc Quantity Surveying responders).
Beyond the reputation for excellence within the construction industry, the University of Reading has a world-renowned research facility, well-structured course content informed by the latest research and industrial activities, partnership arrangements with leading firms within the industry, highly-resourceful and friendly academic staff, along with the opportunity to network with future leaders in the construction sector.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-quantity-surveying-ifp-september:
Learn about the mechanisms that determine the cost and price of construction, and how projects can be completed on time, with our BSc Quantity Surveying with International Foundation Year degree.
If you want to study quantity surveying at a British university but don’t have the correct qualifications, our four-year BSc Quantity Surveying with International Foundation Year programme enables you to undertake an undergraduate quantity surveying degree.
You will complete a foundation year (called Year 0) before progressing onto our three-year BSc Quantity Surveying degree.
Gain hands-on, authentic experience in a live, two-week intensive construction project, supported by a team of academics and industry professionals.
You’ll plan, schedule, cost, and finally build a scaled version of an iconic build or building.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/international-foundation-programme-ifp-ug/bsc-quantity-surveying-ifp-january:
Module details
Title:
Environmental Sustainability
Code:
AD0FES
Convenor:
MS Rebecca Jerrome
Summary:
Assessment Method:
Disclaimer:
The modules described on this page are what we currently offer.
Modules may change for your year of study as we regularly review our offerings to ensure they’re informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
Academic English 1
IF0AE1
MRS Leslie Lust
Academic English 2
IF0AE2
Core Mathematics
IF0CMA
DR Rehana Bari
Foundation Economics - Microeconomics
IF0EC1
DR Vee Muruko-Jaezuruka
Foundation Economics - Macroeconomics
IF0EC2
An Introduction to Business and Management
IF0IBM
DR Meiko Murayama
This module covers the fundamental theories in the domain of business and management.
Exam 50%, Report 20%, Class test 30%
Quantitative Methods
IF0QM
Foundation Statistics and Data Science
IF0SDS
DR James Appleby
Introduction to Sociology
PO0ISO
DR Dawn Clarke
Topics in Sociology
PO0TSO
These are the modules that we currently offer.
They may change for your year of study as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they’re informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
Construction Science
CE1CCS
DR Mehdi Shahrestani
This module introduces the fundamental concepts of Construction Science through an examination of the physical properties and mechanics of construction materials and the physics of heat, fluids, light sound and electricity.
The application of these concepts is described in the CE1CCT Construction Technology Module delivered in the Autumn Term and the concepts are reinforced through the experimental elements of the CE1CES Empirical Science Module which is delivered in the Spring Term.
This integrated approach enables the theories and concepts learnt in CE1CCS to be used in other modules, thus helping to reinforce knowledge and understanding and develop critical analysis.
Exam 80%, Set exercise 20%
Construction Technology
CE1CCT
PROF Tabarak Ballal
This is a core technology module in which students explore alternative construction materials and technologies used for low-rise built facilities.
It is designed to enable students to comprehend the impact of choice of construction methods and materials on important issues including health and safety, sustainability and the environment.
Project 60%, Class test 40%
Introduction to Economics and Law
CE1CEL
DR Martin Green
Information and Communication
CE1CIC2
DR Ruth Dowsett
This module is designed for the students to learn the importance of information representation, communication and digital technologies in the construction of building projects, providing practical skills to support the studies whilst at the University of Reading.
The module focuses on the principles, tools and methods to graphically represent and visually communicate project-related information, which can be applied in related building technology modules and in a later practice.
Set exercise 10%, Project 90%
Empirical Studies and Site Engineering
CE1ESE
DR Mate Janos Lorincz
Introduction to Management and Projects
CE1IMP
DR Amna Shibeika
Building Pathology and Surveying Practice
CE2BPS
MR Adrian Tagg
Projects and Digitalisation
CE2CPD
Introduction to Quantification and Computerised Taking Off
CE2CTQ
MR Ekpo Ekpenyong
Building Environment Systems and Technology
CE2EST
DR Alba Fuertes Casals
Management of Construction Projects 1
CE2MCP
DR Shabnam Kabiri
Construction Procurement and Contract Law
CE2PCL
DR Ariana Darvish
Project QS
CE3CPQ
DR Upeksha Madanayake
This module is designed to give students a practical experience in the basic techniques related to current practice of construction cost management related to the design, procurement and construction of buildings.
The module is an individual student project consisting of pre-construction costing activities (including the relevant documentation) of a specified development project.
Project 100%
Quantification and Costing: Buildings and Civil Works
CE3QBC
Research Skills and Dissertation
CE3RSD
DR Michael Peters
Business Organisation and Management
CE3BOM
PROFESSOR Irem Dikmen
Inclusive Environments
CE3CE1
Historic Built Environment
CE3CHB
MR Henry Russell
Construction Live Project
CE3CLP1
DR Timothy Lees
Construction Contract Management
CE3CM1
DR Ronan Champion
Digital Technology use in Construction
CE3DCT
DR Dragana Nikolic
Environmental Management and Assessment
CE3EVA
PROF Jacopo Torriti
Green Innovation in Construction
CE3GCO
DR Shu-Ling Lu
International Construction
CE3INT
Human Resource and Health and Safety Management
CE3RHS
DR Florence Phua
Sustainable Built Environments
CE3SBE
DR Eugene Mohareb
Commercial Surveying Practices and Advanced Building Pathology
CE3SBP

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/languages-and-cultures-ug/ba-modern-languages-and-business:
Study a modern language, and examine business challenges in a global context, with our BA Modern Languages and Business degree.
This highly flexible degree enables you to study a modern language – choosing from our core languages of French, German, Italian and Spanish – alongside your studies in business.
Taught by experts from the Department of Languages and Cultures and Henley Business School , you’ll acquire transferable skills with an international focus.
In the latest National Student Survey, 98% of our students said teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024, 97.87% of responders from the Department of Languages and Cultures).
Throughout, you'll be encouraged to follow your interests as they develop and tailor your learning to your career goals.
In your third year, you will go abroad to enhance your language learning and undertake a placement at the same time.
At the University of Reading, you’ll join a lively, multilingual community and study alongside students from all over the world.
Learn from internationally recognised researchers whose wide-ranging expertise includes migration, literature, history, cinema, linguistics, publishing, and translation.
100% of our research is of international standing (Research Excellence Framework 2021, combining 4*, 3* and 2* submissions – Modern Languages and Linguistics).
Choose to study one of our four core languages:
These languages are offered at beginner’s, intermediate or advanced level, depending on your experience.
You’ll learn through a combination of lectures, seminars, practical workshops, and self-guided study.
This will provide the opportunity to discuss subject materials in an in-depth way with your lecturers and fellow students.
Our flexible, supportive teaching style will enable you to become confident and highly skilled in your chosen core language.
You will master the fundamentals of the language – both written and spoken – graduating with a high level of proficiency.
Direct access to our staff for help and feedback ensures you develop your language skills to the best of your ability.
The study of language includes cultural modules that develop your understanding of the cultures of the countries in which the language is spoken, from their literary and cinematic traditions to their history, politics and linguistics.
As well as complementing your joint studies, this enables you to develop as a specialist with an international, comparative approach.
Optional modules also include introductory study of one of the following languages (subject to approval and availability):
Year Abroad
On the Year Abroad, you expand your linguistic skills and intercultural understanding in the language you study while doing a work placement , studying at a partner university or working as a language teaching assistant .
The Year Abroad is organised by the Department of Languages and Cultures which runs preparation sessions throughout Part 2 and supports your preparation process as well as your stay abroad.
For more information, visit the website for the Department of Languages and Cultures .
Develop the key skills and competences you need to thrive in your studies and career, for instance communication, business writing and time management skills.
You will also learn other key career and employability skills to help you with internships, placements or graduate position applications.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a foundation in business and management practices and theories.
These provide the necessary context when students specialise in their later studies.
The aim of this module is to provide students with a foundation in how businesses use accounting information.
It will introduce students to management accounting and financial accounting, and it will provide the necessary foundation in accounting to allow them to specialise in their later studies.
Acquiring, managing, and analysing data is an important business activity that allows organisations to make strategic use of their data assets.
You'll also take at least one of the following:
If you have no experience of the language, this module will develop your skills to a level comparable to level A2 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
You’ll learn the basics and gain the proficiency needed to undertake a degree in or involving the language.
If you have a good GCSE grade or AS level in the language, this module will develop your skills to a level comparable to B1 of the Common European Framework for Reference.
You’ll learn the speaking and writing skills required to study the language to honours degree level.
If you’ve achieved an A level in the language, this module will develop your skills to a level comparable to level B1.2/B2.1 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
You’ll advance your written and spoken skills, enabling you to study the language to honours degree level.
Further compulsory modules will depend on your chosen core language(s):
Gain a foundation in the history, culture, literature and ideas of France and the Francophone world, helping you to understand key ideas and developments that shaped the concept and perception of ‘Frenchness’.
You’ll analyse and assess social and political developments in Germany since 1945, interacting films, official documents, media discourse, documentaries, national symbols, and song lyrics to identify themes of the historical period.
Explore the history and culture of modern Italy, from unification to the present.
You’ll consider what and who contributed to the birth of Italy, including how they shaped the political landscape of the Fascist regime and the Republic.
Using short stories, poetry, documentaries, films, and popular music from Spain and Latin America, you’ll analyse culture in the Hispanophone world, identifying themes of national identity, resistance, cultural and social revolution, power, and religion.
Taught in two halves, the first half of this module introduces the concept of competitive advantage, why it's important, and how it can be achieved through business strategies.
The second half of the module focuses on operations management: how an organisation manages its resources to create and deliver services and products.
You'll gain insight into how different functions work together to develop and sustain competitive advantage.
Examine the main concepts, principles and practices in the management of work and people in organisations.
You'll explore the observable, practical elements of people management, as well as the underlying theories of organisational behaviour and management studies.
Develop your language skills and advance your proficiency to undertake your final year.
Upon successful completion, you’ll have achieved the equivalent of level B1 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
Develop your language skills to a level comparable to level B1.2/B2.1 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
Further develop your speaking and writing skills to achieve the language level required to your final year.
Upon successful completion, you’ll achieve the equivalent of level B1.2/B2.1 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
Further compulsory modules will depend on your chosen core language(s), for example:
Strengthen the links between the linguistic and cultural study of French language and achieve ‘thinking in French’.
You’ll focus on French rhetoric and style and how writing and thinking are taught within the French education system.
You’ll also explore the way ideas about the French have developed and have been debated over time.
Cinema has become a site of identity discourse for many Germans.
You’ll analyse and assess films produced between the First World War and unification, relating these to changing political regimes and the wider cultural context of Germany.
You’ll examine how French, Hispanic, Italian, and German literary traditions have impacted global fantastic literature, considering the usage of Gothic, grotesque, supernatural and uncanny elements in selected key texts.
Discover the birth of modern humanity in late 18th-century Europe and the revolutionary changes that Enlightenment and Romanticism intellectual movements brought in all spheres of thought and social life.
You’ll also explore how different European nations contributed to innovation, how modernity diffused beyond the Western world, the transformations brought by non-European influences, and the leading role of art in the modernisation process.
Discover how modern ideas of nation, national identity, the nation-state and nationalism have shaped modern Europe and the rest of the world from the 18th century to the present day.
You’ll examine the impact of the idea of the nation and the persistence and profound significance of regionalist tendencies across Europe.
You’ll also explore the dynamic relationship between nationalism and other ideologies of community and identity.
Gain an understanding of the techniques, principles and underlying concepts of management accounting.
You'll explore how organisations use financial information in decision-making, planning, control, and performance evaluation.
Explore different sales approaches and sales models, with a specific focus on direct and online sales.
You'll gain an understanding of how sales activities can influence decisions related to marketing, logistics, manufacturing, finance, and resource capability.
This practical, interactive module will teach you key entrepreneurial concepts, such as design thinking, business model creation, entrepreneurial finance, and marketing.
Working in a team, you'll identify and develop a new business opportunity, and then test your idea through ‘lean start-up’ experiments.
Explore case studies of climate discourse and activism from around the world.
You’ll gain the skills needed to think critically about environmental issues and discourses and their wider implications.
Build on the knowledge and skills acquired in the Year 1 module "Business in Practice: Accounting for managers".
This module offers an integrated perspective on the role of nations and firms in the global economy and serves as an introduction to international business and economics.
It revolves around the key questions of why and how firms go abroad and what are the consequences of international business activity for the nations, firms and people of the global economy.
Study and debate the ethical issues that corporate decision-makers face in developing policies about employees, shareholders, customers and broader stakeholders.
You’ll utilise both theory and case study as you focus on topics such as ethical theory, buyer/supplied relationships, and the ethics of globalisation and financial issues.
Become acquainted with the management of business Information Systems (IS) and learn the interplay between management, organisational, and information technology IS dimensions.
As you learn their capabilities and limitations, you’ll gain a conceptual foundation to different information systems and consider their purpose from a business perspective.
Develop the skills and knowledge required to manage and analyse data.
You will study key computing concepts, learn to design and implement different types of databases, and critically evaluate the usability and user experience of applications.
On the Year Abroad, you expand your linguistic skills and intercultural understanding in the language you study while doing a work placement at a company or studying at a partner university.
Explore genre features, contexts, and aesthetic genesis of science-fiction films from different traditions and periods.
You’ll analyse formal and thematic features of the films and identify central ethical questions they raise, evaluating each film in its specific cultural, political, and social context.
Explore the diversification, evolution and fluidity of definitions of modern notions of race, gender, and how individual and collective identities have been redefined by intellectuals and ideologies.
You’ll be encouraged to engage with competing and conflicting visions and values both through set case studies and group projects.
Language is a powerful tool that can construe reality, challenge power, harm and discriminate individuals and foster social cohesion.
You’ll investigate a range of genres, discourse, and theoretical approaches to disclose a text’s underlying ideological stance.
Increase your competence in spoken and written language.
Consolidate your language skills and achieve the equivalent of level B2.2 of the Common European Framework of Reference upon successful completion.
Advance the spoken and written language skills you developed during your year abroad to express yourself fluently.
Upon successful completion, you’ll achieve the equivalent of level C1/C2 of the Common European Framework of Reference.
Discover themes and events that have contributed to change in modern Italian society.
You’ll examine how moments of crisis engendered long-lasting change whilst fostering opportunity in terms of identity, citizenship, and nationhood.
Investigate the history of the Colombian armed conflicts, from the 1940s civil war to the present day war on drugs.
Through the analysis of interdisciplinary historical and cultural texts, including essays, fiction, films and new media, you’ll explore the role stories play in both justifying conflict and creating the possibilities for peace.
An introduction to digital marketing and the increasingly important role of technology in both marketing practice and society.
You will learn to implement digital marketing approaches, understand the key strategic drivers behind the growth of the digital economy, and gain practical experience of digital platforms used to implement marketing strategies.
Develop further understanding of the role of management accounting in organisational decision making, planning, control and performance management.
Explore how entrepreneurial digital companies develop their products, compete in hyper-competitive markets, and monetise their products.
You'll examine the marketing methods used by digital entrepreneurs, approaches to customer development, and data-driven decision making processes.
You’ll be provided with theoretical and practical grounding  to work within service organisations or service business units within manufacturing organisations.
Develop your awareness of contemporary debates and practices of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as you consider challenges such as reducing poverty, protection vulnerable ecosystems and facing up to global climate change.
You’ll consider the wider role of business in society and global sustainable development and focus on specific areas of corporate responsibility.
Become acquainted with the various forms of financing for entrepreneurship including debt, equity financing, non-for-profit and alternative financing.
You will gain an in depth understanding of the entrepreneurial ecosystem approach and develop skills of cost-benefit analysis of a project and a financial appraisal of new ventures.
Become familiarised with private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) fund raising and investment processes.
You’ll develop an appreciation of the practical aspects of investing by PE and VC firms and understand the dynamics between venture capital investors and the entrepreneur.
Gain an in depth understanding of the structure and function of information processed and presented by IT systems in organisations.
You’ll acquire the ability to plan and develop information system solutions to support digital transformation of organisations with the awareness of social and technological changes and advances.
Explore the conflicts, controversies and moral challenges in the world of marketing – and challenge the way you think about the subject.
You'll examine the effects of marketing on consumers’ physical and mental well-being, as well as the alleged exploitation of vulnerable consumers.
This module combines marketing with other subject areas, including science, nutrition and law.
This interactive module offers an experiential introduction to social entrepreneurship.
You’ll embark on a journey exploring social enterprise from conception through to design and delivery.
Additionally, you’ll explore opportunities and challenges surrounding social enterprises and the impact of various stakeholders on the development, survival, and growth of such organisations.
Gain an understanding of corporate strategy and how practical business strategists create advantages and differentiate themselves from competitors.
Learn how choices of diversification, vertical integration, acquisitions, and the allocation of resources can make businesses competitive.
Additionally, you will craft and evaluate the overarching strategy of a multi-business firm to improve its long-run performance.
Develop your ability to address complex business problems involving the use of technology and identify appropriate options and formulate recommendations.
You’ll have the opportunity to work closely with a group of peers to apply technology advisory practices to a contemporary business case and gain business and academic skills applicable to different areas of advisory practice.
Study how fairness shapes our understanding of justice and morality as you delve into different theories that ask the importance and relationship of fairness to concepts such as justice, impartiality, need, and deservingness.
You’ll examine real word examples such as global poverty, climate change, and the intersection of fairness and moral demandingness.
Gain an in-depth knowledge on the law of copyright, performers’ rights, trademarks and passing off.
You’ll identify and explore rationales of intellectual property protection and learn to assess their practical, day-to-day implementation to  understand the interface between legal rules and physical realities.
Study the fundamental principles of commercial law through a critical examination of relevant case law, legislation, business practice, academic work, historical influence and public policy.
You’ll primarily focus on the law surrounding contracts for the sale of goods, with particular reference to commercial transactions in England and Wales.
Discover the fundamental principles of company law in England and Wales as you consider the formation, structure, operation and activities of companies.
You’ll consider the regulation of companies and engage deeply with case law, legislation and legal reform.
In the latest Graduate Outcomes Survey, 96% of graduates from Languages and Cultures are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (based on our analysis of HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes first degree Languages and Cultures responders).
Recent modern languages graduates have found careers in translation, teaching, business and finance, the arts, and marketing.
(Based on HESA data © HESA 2024, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22; includes past graduates who studied modern languages at Reading).
Your business skills will help to prepare you for a career in both the public and private sectors.
The skills and knowledge you acquire will be applicable to, and provide a route into, many areas.
In the Daily Mail University Guide 2025 , we are ranked 1st in the UK for Career on track, and 2nd for High-skilled job in Business Studies.
I have experienced the subject as a perfect balance of a more theoretical subject such as Business and a language that complements elements of literature, history and of course the language itself.
This also allowed me to develop a broader set of skills as I am taught different types of writing, and different ways of approaching a task.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/philosophy-ug/ba-philosophy-business-ethics:
Think deeply and critically about the big ideas behind the behaviours and values of people and organisations with our three-year BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics degree.
This course is offered jointly by the triple-accredited Henley Business School and the University of Reading’s Department of Philosophy .
With a strong focus on business ethics, the programme will help you apply your knowledge to real-world scenarios, and its versatility will enhance your employability and help prepare you for your career after graduation.
During this course, you will:
The study of ethics forms an integral component of both the philosophical and business sides of the programme, preparing you to think through the ethical and commercial dilemmas that real-world decision-makers face.
About Henley Business School
Part of the University of Reading, Henley is one of the oldest business schools in the UK.
It is among an exclusive group of business schools worldwide that hold triple accreditations for the quality of its teaching and research.
About the Department of Philosophy
Reading’s Department of Philosophy is in the top 125 in the world for History, Philosophy and Theology (Times Higher Education World University Rankings by Subject, 2023).
Your learning environment
Your studies will include lectures, seminars, and practical workshops, and you’ll be assessed through a variety of coursework, examinations and class tests.
Examples of coursework include essays and written reports.
During your first year, you’ll learn core philosophical ideas and the basic concepts and methods of critical thinking, basic logic, and the psychology of reasoning.
Meanwhile, your business modules will provide a strong foundation in strategy, marketing, and organisational behaviour as well as either accounting or data analytics.
As you progress through the course, you’ll gain a deeper awareness of philosophical thinking, the skills of argument and presentation, and the methodology of philosophy.
You’ll also explore the nature, origin and limits of human knowledge.
You’ll study business ethics in depth, and have the opportunity to select from a range of other modules offered by Henley Business School.
You’ll also work with organisations on live projects – for example, projects linked to social responsibility.
And in addition to your focus on philosophy, business, and ethics, you’ll have the flexibility to choose from a wide range of optional modules outside of your core subject areas.
Opportunities for study abroad and placements
You can choose to study this degree over four years, allowing you to spend your third year on a work placement or studying at one of our partner universities abroad.
Shorter placements and study abroad trips may also be available.
Develop a foundation in business and management practices and theories, which will give you the necessary context when you specialise in your later studies.
You'll learn about the competitive environment, markets, strategy, marketing, operations, organisational behaviour and entrepreneurship.
Discover the graduate and placement recruitment process from the perspective of recruiter and organisations.
Learn to understand the role of recruitment, the context of different organisations and implications for different talent management strategies and needs, the rationale for employing certain process and procedures to secure a high-performing and engaged workforce.
Discover global perspectives on justice and freedom, from the Buddha to Christian female mystics, to acquire new insights and question your own beliefs and ideas.
Develop a foundation in how businesses use accounting information.
Learn about management accounting and financial accounting, which will provide the necessary foundation to allow you to specialise in your later studies.
Discover key concepts in data analytics by learning about two stages of data analytics (a) descriptive analytics and (b) predictive analytics, as well as visualisation techniques for qualitatively summarising data.
From Plato and Marx to contemporaries like Judith Butler, Slavoj Zizek, and Catharine MacKinnon, there is a long tradition of radicalism in philosophy.
Discover how radical philosophy can usefully question our deepest assumptions and challenge our deepest beliefs.
Apply knowledge and experience gained during the course to a contemporary management problem or issue related to social purpose of the business and 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Develop your awareness and understanding of the ethical issues in business and management, focusing on the ethical issues facing multinationals and global companies.
You’ll engage with a range of ideas and theories from classic texts that mark some of the most important and influential ideas in philosophy, from Socrates to the present day.
Discusses and analyses marketing theories, as well as strategic marketing tools and techniques used in the business world.
You'll be encouraged to engage actively and critically with the theoretical and empirical contents of the module through weekly pre recorded lectures, live interactive sessions with guest speakers and small-group tutorials.
Discover the concept of competitive advantage, why this is important for organisations, and how this can be achieved through the development and application of business strategies.
Focus on operations management, the function of the organisation that manages the resources that are devoted to the creation and delivery of services and products that create value for the organisation's customers.
Develop leadership skills with regard to leadership concepts and knowledge and understanding leadership for individuals, teams and organisations.
Take part in face-to-face workshops, small group work, transfer to individual programme member context, personal reflection and self-study.
Gain insight into the practical application of accountancy and/or business management skills.
You'll gain relevant work experience in order to provide a practical context for the academic material studied in the first, second and final year.
You'll also enhance your employability by being able to demonstrate 12 months relevant work experience.
A non-credit module that will give you an opportunity to apply the knowledge and learning you gained in your first one or two years in a business context, enhancing your understanding and skills of working in a business environment, and reflecting on this experience to enhance awareness of the graduate employment market.
Deepen your understanding of the history of philosophy.
You’ll focus on early Chinese philosophy to include the Confucian and daoist traditions, as well as moral, social, and political philosophy.
Explore the world of business ethics and discover a range of philosophical questions to challenge your thinking.
These include the morality of sweatshop labour, the ethics behind advertising, and the corporate obligation to do what is right.
Discover how metaphysics is one of the foundation stones of philosophy, and how the way we deal with metaphysical problems affects our approach to problems in many other areas of philosophy, such as philosophy of mind and epistemology.
Explore central topics within the philosophy of religion.
You’ll examine contemporary ideas and their historical origins, evaluating their significance and validity.
Gain a comprehensive view on personal leadership development and learn how to plan your own leadership skills strategy.
You will explore the different approaches for leadership development planning and action, including developing self-awareness, contextual awareness and how to design a learning agenda.
Learn about the growing recognition of the role business and market-based solutions can play in tackling complex ‘wicked’ global sustainable development challenges, including reducing poverty, protecting vulnerable ecosystems, and facing up to global climate change.
Explore the conflicting, controversial and moral challenges facing marketing, and investigate its effects on consumers’ health (both physical and mental well-being) and the alleged exploitation of vulnerable consumers.
You will look at current issues and use your marketing skills to help resolve some practical consumer and societal problems.
Discover how marketing communications work including advertising, direct marketing, and sales promotion.
You’ll learn how to design, manage, and assess marketing communication efforts to best reach and engage the intended audience.
Careers for BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics graduates
This programme has a strong focus on employability.
In a changing and uncertain world, we believe that a critical philosophical grounding, together with business-oriented and personal skills, will equip you for future success.
Business graduates from the University of Reading are successful in the job market and in their career aspirations.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/philosophy-ug/ba-philosophy-business-ethics-with-placement:
Think deeply and critically about the behaviours and values of people and organisations, and examine how these play out in a professional setting,
with our BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics with Placement Experience degree.
This four-year degree includes an integrated, year-long work placement between your second and final year of study.
Supported by our dedicated placement team, you'll gain real-world experience and a range of transferable skills that are highly valued in the workplace.
Your placement will enable you to put your newly acquired knowledge and skills into practice, and also provide opportunities for you to build your network.
We have excellent links with a diverse range of employers from industry, the public sector and the charity sector, meaning that we can help you find placements for a variety of career paths.
Over the years, students in the Department of Philosophy have completed a wide range of placements.
Roles have included:
Students have worked at organisations such as the House of Commons, the University of Reading, Microsoft, and Enterprise Mobility.
Recent placements have also enabled students to examine philosophical issues in the workplace – for example, working at a zoo to learn more about the ethical treatment of animals.
If you would prefer to study this course without a placement year, you can choose our three-year BA Philosophy, Business and Ethics course .
Our dedicated placement co-ordinator will support you throughout securing a placement, during the placement, and while transitioning back to university life.
From your first year, we will guide you through the career planning process and support you in identifying paid placements suited to your individual career interests.
We'll also review your CV and application forms, build your confidence for interviews, tests and assessment centres, and help you prepare for receiving feedback.
Your placement will provide you with experience of applying for roles and a year’s worth of valuable work experience to help you stand out.
Many students in the School of Philosophy, Politics and Economics are offered jobs from their placement providers after they have completed their placement.
In addition, our Careers team will support you with:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-data-analytics-and-digital-business:
Gain a thorough understanding of technology and big data in a wider business context, with our BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) degree.
This flexible course, taught by academics from Henley Business School , equips you with the expertise to develop and implement technology and data-driven solutions for business.
You’ll study the underlying theories and concepts of digital business, and learn how to apply them in the real world.
Your core modules will cover:
You’ll also study the core disciplines that underpin business – including economics, psychology and sociology – and explore topics such as:
Throughout your studies, you will:
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
Alternatively, you could transfer onto the more general BSc Business and Management where you’ll be offered a wide range of options in your second and final years – allowing you to tailor your learning to your individual interests.
All of our degrees are available as four-year options, with either a Placement Year or Study Year Abroad in the third year.
We are passionate about developing your personal skills alongside your business acumen.
Our focus on self-development aims to prepare you for the external market – from internships and placements to full-time employment.
The skills required to secure, and succeed, in future roles are embedded into the curriculum.
For example, you will undertake a short, guided project in your second year focusing on social responsibility in action.
Working with local communities, you’ll have the opportunity to put your skills into practice, gain new experiences, and open yourself up to new ways of thinking.
Examine key ideas and debates in business and management, including the intellectual foundations on which many well-known management frameworks are built.
You'll consider business decisions from different academic perspectives and come to recognise the value of competing viewpoints.
Explore the concepts that underpin markets, strategy, marketing, operations, organisational behaviour and entrepreneurship -- and gain an understanding of the inter-relationship between them.
You'll examine key theories and frameworks, and apply them to current scenarios in the business world.
Explore how businesses use accounting information in reporting, internal decision-making and planning.
You'll gain an understanding of management accounting and financial accounting, as well as the necessary foundation in accounting to allow you to specialise in your later studies.
Study key concepts in data analytics, including descriptive analytics and predictive analytics, and explore visualisation techniques for qualitatively summarising data.
Develop in-depth understanding of the structure and function of digital information and IT systems.
You'll gain the ability to plan and develop information system solutions to support digital transformation in business, with an awareness of relevant social and technological advances.
Example modules include (please note that all modules are subject to change):
Develop your awareness of global approaches to ethics and gain a critical understanding of the key approaches to ethical theories from different cultures and national contexts.
You’ll consider the global issues in relationships between business and society from different ethical perspectives relying on ethical theory and case study.
Discuss marketing communication theories to understand how intended audiences are targeted and engaged with.
You’ll learn how marketing communications work in practice as you consider both traditional and digital strategies associated with advertisement, sales promotion, design, and management.
Develop financial acumen for a career in marketing.
You’ll evaluate financial statements, apply relevant marketing metrics, assess marketing costs, and monitor marketing performance results.
In this module, you’ll develop financial acumen through reading, evaluating and analysing real companies published financial statements as you consider key financial rations and performances.
You’ll expand on oral communication skills as you plan and give a presentation that integrates your knowledge and creative ideas.
Consider the corporate strategies of companies with a single primary line of business to the strategies of multi-business firms.
You’ll consider choices related to corporate strategy such as those concerning diversification, vertical integration, acquisitions, and the allocation of resources.
As you embark on this module, you’ll develop a sense of what strategists must do to improve firms long-run performance.
Cement your knowledge of digital marketing and learn its role in achieving business goals.
You’ll learn how to consult organisations of different sizes on the most appropriate digital marketing approaches sing a range of skills and gain practical experience of digital platforms used to implement marketing strategies.
Examine time-dependent phenomena in business & management and learn how evolutionary processes can lead to radically different outcomes to those predicted by neoclassical economics.
You will consider the impact of time-dependent business phenomena on firm survival, growth, domination, or extinction.
Learn to conduct an in-depth examination of a chosen topic through guided independent research to produce a 10,000-word dissertation.
Your degree in business and management will prepare you for a career in both the public and private sectors.
The skills and knowledge you acquire will be applicable to, and provide a route into, many areas:

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-data-analytics-and-digital-business-with-placement-year:
Explore technology and big data in a wider business context – and gain valuable real-world experience – with our BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Placement Year degree.
This flexible, four-year course, taught by academics from Henley Business School , equips you with the expertise to develop and implement technology and data-driven solutions for business.
An integrated Placement Year provides a fantastic opportunity to put your skills into practice in preparation for your future career.
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) , a three-year course without a Placement Year; and BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Study Year Abroad , a four-year course with a year studying overseas instead of on placement.
In your third year, you’ll have the opportunity to gain valuable experience in a real-world setting with our Work Placement module.
We will support you to find and secure a placement that’s right for you.
As well as enriching your studies, an industry placement can be an excellent way to:
In addition to your Placement Year, we work hard to ensure that the personal skills required to secure, and succeed in, future roles are embedded into the curriculum.
Alongside your business acumen, our focus on self-development aims to prepare you for the external market – from internships and placements to full-time employment.
Working with local communities, you'll have the opportunity to put your skills into practice, gain new experiences, and open yourself up to new ways of thinking.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-data-analytics-and-digital-business-with-study-year-abroad:
Explore technology and big data in a wider business context – and broaden your skills and experience by studying overseas – with our BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Study Year Abroad degree.
You’ll enrich this learning and broaden your life experience with an integrated Study Year Abroad.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Study Abroad degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) , a three-year course; and BSc Business and Management (Data Analytics and Digital Business) with Placement Year , a four-year course with a year spent on work placement instead of abroad.
In your third year, you’ll have the opportunity to continue your studies at one of our overseas partner universities.
We’ll help you decide where to go and for how long, guide you through the application process, and support you when you’re abroad.
In addition to having a year abroad on your CV, we work hard to ensure that the personal skills required to secure, and succeed in, future roles are embedded into the curriculum.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-entrepreneurship:
Develop the skills to become a successful entrepreneur, and prepare for a career in the rapidly changing world of business, with our BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) degree.
This programme, taught by experts from Henley Business School , combines the rigour of a management degree with the creative spirit of entrepreneurship.
You’ll gain the expertise to embark on your own business venture, with modules covering opportunity recognition and evaluation, financing, “growth-hacking”, and resource management.
Your studies will provide:
In your final year, you will also have the option to run your own business with support and mentorship from the Henley Centre for Entrepreneurship .
Throughout your degree, you will also study the core disciplines that underpin business – including economics, psychology and sociology – and explore theories and concepts such as:
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We are passionate about developing the personal, professional and entrepreneurial skills you need to succeed in a rapidly changing environment.
At the end of your degree, you’ll be well-equipped to start your own venture, or be in an excellent position to pursue a managerial career in a start-up or fast-growing business.
The skills required to succeed in these roles are embedded into the curriculum.
You’ll also be encouraged to enhance your knowledge and skills through a variety of extra-curricular opportunities, offered by the Henley Centre for Entrepreneurship and the Student Entrepreneurship Society .
Explore the principles of corporate social responsibility, including sustainability, diversity and ethical behaviour.
You'll study the United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals, including the "Principles for Responsible Management Education", and apply the knowledge you've gained during your studies to a real-world management problem.
This module will introduce you to key concepts of business start-up as you identify and develop a new business opportunity and test your idea through ‘lean start-up' experiments.
You’ll gain entrepreneurial management skills such as design thinking, business model creation, and entrepreneurial finance and marketing.
Learn the characteristics of the sales channel as you explore sales through a practitioner-oriented view.
You’ll consider different approaches and sales models, focussing on direct and online sales, and explore the modern concept of sales as a philosophy, culture, process and strategic business development role for companies.
Gain a comprehensive view on personal leadership development and learn how to plain your own leadership skills strategy.
You’ll examine concepts, theories, and evidence needed to develop your understanding and competencies associated with leadership development and demonstrate contextual and self-awareness.
Working on your own unique business idea, you’ll learn the experienced realities of entrepreneurship and business start up.
Whether setting up a company or developing a prototype product or service, you’ll develop practical skills that enable you to be effective in developing your venture and reflecting on personal and business performance.
Explore effective communication traits in both written and spoken forms.
You’ll learn to present data persuasively and delve into rhetorical theory for critical analysis of various texts, including social media communications.
You’ll create informative and persuasive documents and reflect upon your own use of language in the workplace and beyond.
Careers for BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) graduates

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-entrepreneurship-with-placement-year:
Develop the skills to become a successful entrepreneur in the rapidly changing world of business – and gain valuable real-world experience – with our BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Placement Year degree.
This four-year programme, taught by experts from Henley Business School , combines the rigour of a management degree with the creative spirit of entrepreneurship.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Placement Year degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) , a three-year course without a Placement Year, and BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Study Year Abroad , a four-year course with a year studying overseas instead of on placement.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-entrepreneurship-with-study-year-abroad:
Develop the skills to become a successful entrepreneur in the rapidly changing world of business – and broaden your skills and experience by studying overseas – with our BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Study Year Abroad degree.
In your final year, you will also have the option to run your own business with support and mentorship from the Henley Centre for Entrepreneurship.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Study Year Abroad degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) , a three-year course, and BSc Business and Management (Entrepreneurship and Innovation) with Placement Year , a four-year course with a year spent on work placement instead of abroad.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-human-resources:
Develop the skills and knowledge to prepare for a role in human resources management on the BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour), and help shape the workforce of tomorrow.
This flexible course offers you the opportunity to specialise in the area of Human Resources Management and Organisational Behaviour.
People are at the heart of every organisation.
On this course, we will introduce the current workplace trends and issues that are relevant to people management, and ensure you are equipped to shape and drive the workforce of tomorrow.
You will be taught by world-class scholars and practitioners in the field, including the World of Work Institute, and Henley Business School members and directors.
Your modules will cover:
Alongside these, you will also study the core disciplines that underpin business – including economics, psychology and sociology – and explore theories and concepts such as:
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Marketing) degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) with Placement Year , a four-year course with a placement year; and BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Management) with Year Abroad , a four-year course with a year studying overseas instead of on placement.
Examine how companies manage people at work and study the relationships between strategy, HRM and performance.
You’ll consider the priorities and objectives of organisations and how these are managed while accommodating the needs and expectations of employees.
Gain deeper understanding of leadership models and concepts as you explore different leadership styles and the ethical challenges associated with it.
You’ll consider potential obstacles for leaders and learn how they can develop their leadership capabilities to deal with them.
This module focusses on data-driven processes that are used in industry and business applications to provide recommendations, make predictions, or extract knowledge.
You’ll focus on the importance of machine learning for strategic use and gain experience building predictive models that can lead to data-driven solutions.
Study the psychological and sociological factors that influence consumer behaviour before, during and after purchase.
Focussing on consumption in contemporary consumer markets, you’ll discuss the effective engagement and handling of business customers and explore consumer and business customer buying behaviour models.
They may be subject to change as we regularly review our module offerings to ensure they are informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
;
Study the increasingly important role of technology in both marketing practice and society.
You’ll learn to apply a range of skills to implement digital marketing approaches and study key strategic drivers behind the growth of the digital economy.
Following on from the module Marketing Essentials, this module introduces cross-cultural marketing based on the recognition of diversity in different markets of the world and local and global consumers.
You’ll embark on a group project that provides you with the opportunity to apply concepts and tools in a creative and challenging team task that addresses cross-cultural marketing issues.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-human-resources-with-placement-year:
Develop the skills and knowledge to prepare for a role in human resources management on the on the BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) with Placement Year, and gain real-world experience on a placement.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Management) , a three-year course without Placement Year; and BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Management) with Year Abroad , a four-year course with a year studying overseas instead of on placement.
You'll consider the priorities and objectives of organisations and how these are managed while accommodating the needs and expectations of employees.
You'll consider potential obstacles for leaders and learn how they can develop their leadership capabilities to deal with them.
You'll gain entrepreneurial management skills such as design thinking, business model creation, and entrepreneurial finance and marketing.
You'll focus on the importance of machine learning for strategic use and gain experience building predictive models that can lead to data-driven solutions.
You'll utilise both theory and case study as you focus on topics such as ethical theory, buyer/supplied relationships, and the ethics of globalisation and financial issues.
Focussing on consumption in contemporary consumer markets, you'll discuss the effective engagement and handling of business customers and explore consumer and business customer buying behaviour models.
You'll examine concepts, theories, and evidence needed to develop your understanding and competencies associated with leadership development and demonstrate contextual and self-awareness.
You'll learn to apply a range of skills to implement digital marketing approaches and study key strategic drivers behind the growth of the digital economy.
You'll examine factors that influence the development and the competitive positioning of MNEs and gain an understanding of both the external business environment and internal nature of the firm and its strategy.
You'll gain understanding as to how managers can address challenges of different national institutions in product markets, labour markets and financial markets in the face of competition.
You'll be provided with theoretical and practical grounding to work within service organisations or service business units within manufacturing organisations.
You'll consider the wider role of business in society and global sustainable development and focus on specific areas of corporate responsibility.
You'll learn how marketing communications work in practice as you consider both traditional and digital strategies associated with advertisement, sales promotion, design, and management.
You'll embark on a group project that provides you with the opportunity to apply concepts and tools in a creative and challenging team task that addresses cross-cultural marketing issues.
You'll evaluate financial statements, apply relevant marketing metrics, assess marketing costs, and monitor marketing performance results.
In this module, you'll develop financial acumen through reading, evaluating and analysing real companies published financial statements as you consider key financial rations and performances.
You'll expand on oral communication skills as you plan and give a presentation that integrates your knowledge and creative ideas.
You'll develop an appreciation of the practical aspects of investing by PE and VC firms and understand the dynamics between venture capital investors and the entrepreneur.
You'll acquire the ability to plan and develop information system solutions to support digital transformation of organisations with the awareness of social and technological changes and advances.
Explore the conflicts, controversies and moral challenges in the world of marketing and challenge the way you think about the subject.
You'll examine the effects of marketing on consumers; physical and mental well-being, as well as the alleged exploitation of vulnerable consumers.
You'll consider the global issues in relationships between business and society from different ethical perspectives relying on ethical theory and case study.
You'll embark on a journey exploring social enterprise from conception through to design and delivery.
Additionally, you'll explore opportunities and challenges surrounding social enterprises and the impact of various stakeholders on the development, survival, and growth of such organisations.
You'll consider choices related to corporate strategy such as those concerning diversification, vertical integration, acquisitions, and the allocation of resources.
As you embark on this module, you'll develop a sense of what strategists must do to improve firms long-run performance.
You'll learn how to consult organisations of different sizes on the most appropriate digital marketing approaches sing a range of skills and gain practical experience of digital platforms used to implement marketing strategies.
Examine time-dependent phenomena in business and management and learn how evolutionary processes can lead to radically different outcomes to those predicted by neoclassical economics.
You'll examine real word examples such as global poverty, climate change, and the intersection of fairness and moral demandingness.
Gain an in-depth knowledge on the law of copyright, performers; rights, trademarks and passing off.
You'll identify and explore rationales of intellectual property protection and learn to assess their practical, day-to-day implementation to understand the interface between legal rules and physical realities.
You'll primarily focus on the law surrounding contracts for the sale of goods, with particular reference to commercial transactions in England and Wales.
You'll consider the regulation of companies and engage deeply with case law, legislation and legal reform.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-human-resources-with-year-abroad:
Develop the skills and knowledge to prepare for a role in human resources management on the BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour) with Year Abroad, and broaden your skills and experience by studying overseas.
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Management) , a three-year course with a year studying abroad; and BSc Business and Management (Human Resources and Organisational Management) with Placement Year , a four-year course with a year working on an industry placement.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-marketing:
Develop the marketing expertise to succeed in the rapidly changing world of business with our BSc Business and Management (Marketing) degree.
This flexible course, taught by experts from Henley Business School , equips you with the fundamental skills of business – from theory and practice to their real-world applications.
You’ll study marketing in the wider context of business management, gaining a firm understanding of its practice, concepts and theories.
As your studies progress, you’ll have the option to specialise in different areas of marketing that interest you most, and develop your knowledge and skill set.
Alongside this, you’ll study the core disciplines that underpin business – including economics, psychology and sociology – and explore theories and concepts such as:
ranked in the top 10 for Marketing (ranked 9th in the Daily Mail University Guide 2025 )
This module introduces students to key ideas and debates that pertain to the study of business and management.
It exposes students to the intellectual foundations on which many well-known management frameworks are built.
In doing so it requires students to consider business decisions from different disciplinary perspectives including economics, psychology, history and law, and to recognise the value of these competing viewpoints.
These provide the necessary context when students specialise in their later studies
Investigate the concept of competitive advantage and learn how both business strategy and operations management are important if a business is to build and sustain competitive advantage.
Examine the main concepts, principles and practices concerning the management of work and people in organisations.
First, you will look at the practices used by organisations to manage work and people, with a focus on human resources management, and then you’ll focus on the theories behind organisational behaviour.
Apply the knowledge and experience gained on your course to a contemporary management problem or issue related to social purpose of the business and 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Address a topic relevant to Principles for Responsible Management Education’ (PRME), United Nations-supported initiative founded in 2007.
Actively and critically engage with the main theories in Marketing.
You will gain an overview of Marketing as an academic subject, and explore marketing theories, strategic marketing tools and techniques used in the business world, and how to develop a marketing strategy.
Gain an understanding of the psychological and sociological factors that influence consumer behaviour before, during and after purchase and consumption in contemporary consumer markets.
Discuss the effective engagement and handling of business customers, and apply consumer and business customer buying behaviour models in a contemporary context.
Brands are some of the most valuable assets managed by companies today.
Following on from Marketing Essentials module, you will focus on two key issues within Marketing: Branding and the preparation of a Branding orientated project.
Apply the concepts and tools acquired in previous modules to a creative and challenging team task.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-marketing-with-placement-year:
Develop the marketing expertise to succeed in the rapidly changing world of business – and gain valuable real-world experience – with our BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Placement Year degree.
This flexible, four-year course, taught by experts from Henley Business School , equips you with the fundamental skills of business – from theory and practice to their real-world applications.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Placement Year degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
We also offer two other variations of this course: BSc Business and Management (Marketing) , a three-year course without a Placement Year; and BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Study Year Abroad , a four-year course with a year studying overseas instead of on placement.
A focus on employability with BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Placement Year
management problem or issue related to social purpose of the business and 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.

New sentences found on https://reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/study/2025/business-and-management-accounting-and-finance-ug/bsc-business-and-management-marketing-with-study-year-abroad:
Develop the marketing expertise to succeed in the rapidly changing world of business – and broaden your skills and experience by studying overseas – with our BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Study Year Abroad degree.
After the first year of your BSc Business and Management (Marketing) with Study Year Abroad degree, you will have the option to transfer to any of our other specialist pathways:
Discuss the effective engagement and handling of business customers and apply consumer and business customer buying behaviour models in a contemporary context.
Following on from the Marketing Essentials module, you will focus on two key issues within marketing: Branding and the preparation of a Branding orientated project.