# Site: https://www.rgu.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk:
Our Open Day on Thursday 28 August is your opportunity to learn more about what it’s like to be a student at RGU.
Looking to advance your career, change career direction or pursue a passion?
We will have a postgraduate degree that will help you get there.
Discover the jewel of the North-East and one of Condé Nast's 2025 'Best Places To Go' in the UK.
Recognising excellence in public engagement
Ranked 2nd in Scotland by People & Planet
Recognising our commitment to gender equality
We want you to make the most of your time studying with us, however or wherever you study.
Studying here is about the atmosphere and feeling like you are part of the RGU community.
Our world-class research reflects our expertise across eleven academic schools.
We deliver innovative research solutions for business and industry, and  provide economic, societal, environmental and cultural impact.
At RGU we support industry, government, non-profits and our wider community of learners directly in applying creativity, ideation, innovation, research, design thinking and entrepreneurship to impact society and business.
As well as being home to a diverse community of students, our University is recognised for its rankings in graduate employability, industry connections and quality of teaching.
Boasting plentiful social and cultural activities, Aberdeen offers RGU students a wonderful study, work and leisure environment.
On campus, you can take full advantage of first-class facilities as well as our beautiful green open spaces.
RGU graduates are part of an influential global community of over 80,000 that contribute to the success of the university and its worldwide alumni network.
News
Published: Monday 25 August 2025
Preparations are underway with Gray’s School of Art about to launch its Master’s Art & Design degree show at Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Published: Thursday 21 August 2025
As the offshore wind industry accelerates to meet global energy and climate goals, researchers at RGU have published a groundbreaking study aimed at supporting safety, wellbeing, and performance for wind technicians working in high-risk environments.
Published: Wednesday 20 August 2025
RGU is part of a major research project that focuses on the best ways to integrate photovoltaic (PV) technology into Scotland’s historic structures.
Robert Gordon University, Garthdee House, Garthdee Road, Aberdeen, AB10 7QB, Scotland, UK
A Scottish charity, registration No.
SC013781
2nd
2nd in Scotland for People and Planet* (The Times 2025)
Top 3
Top 3 in Scotland for Teaching Quality (The Times 2025)
Top 3 in Scotland for Student Satisfaction (CUG 2025)
Top 8
Top 8 in the UK for careers on-track (The Daily Mail 2025)
Top 10
Top 10 in the UK for teaching quality (The Times 2024)
2nd in Scotland for teaching excellence (Daily Mail 2024)
Top 10 in UK for student satisfaction (THE, NSS 2023)
2nd in Scotland for learning opportunities (NSS 2023)
Top 10 in the UK for 4 subjects (CUG 2025)
#1
Top in Scotland for employability (HESA 2022)
Top 10 in the UK for assessment satisfaction (Guardian 2025)
300+
More than 300 courses in a range of subjects
Cookie Consent
We use cookies on this website to improve your browsing experience.
Some of the cookies are used for analysis and marketing purposes.
For more details see our privacy and cookie statement .
Strictly Necessary Cookies
These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features.
You can only disable these cookies through your browser settings.
Performance & Marketing Cookies
We use cookies to collect information about how visitors use the website and to improve the user experience.
We sometimes use cookies to assist with the personalisation of marketing for courses and services, they may be used by our media partners to provide targeted media on other websites.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about:
Robert Gordon University provides industry led undergraduate and postgraduate courses leading to highly relevant awards and degrees.
Situated on one of the most beautiful campuses in the UK, the university provides facilities that will have a real influence on your capacity to learn.
Robert Gordon University is an innovative, inclusive, impactful and professionally-focused institution focused on demand-led teaching and research.
The university’s strategy has been developed to be mindful of the significant strengths which make the university distinctive within Scotland.
The University's governing body is the Board of Governors which is appointed to exercise the functions of management and control.
At an operational level, the responsibility and authority for the leadership, administration and management of the University are delegated to the Principal.
The Robert Gordon University’s two principal Committees are the Board of Governors and Academic Council.
RGU’s strategic commitment is underpinned by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development.
We have adopted these goals across our activities and strive to deliver our organisational net zero ambitions by 2045.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/staff:
Staff can access support and guidance information, online services and links for working remotely.
Some of these pages are restricted to University internal users only.
Moodle is RGU’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
It is an essential resource that you can access from any internet enabled device, such as a laptop or mobile device, both on and off campus.
Provides access to SITS/Evision for staff
RGU Research Management System.
Manage the entire lifecycle of your research and commercial activity.
Use the directory search to find anyone internal to the University, staff or student, by typing in at least the first three letters of their name.
Access all your internal university pages.
Central login for access to RGU web applications delivered to staff and students.
Robert Gordon University is committed to protecting the health, safety, welfare and wellbeing of people potentially affected by its undertakings.
Financial Services provides management and statutory financial reporting to all relevant stakeholders.
(RGyoU)
Many of our services and facilities on campus are available for the local community to use, together with our students and staff members.
The Academic Regulations apply to all educational provision offered by the University bearing credit.
Networks provide support and empower members of the RGU community.
They are a great way to get involved and contribute to our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
RGU strives towards creating a working, learning and social atmosphere which is inclusive, harmonious and respectful of diversity.
Our invention disclosure process allows innovative staff and students the ability to come up with new ideas and concepts while taking the first steps to protect their intellectual property.
Our online platform enables anonymous or named Gender Based Violence disclosures, offering direct help in complete confidence and detailed guidance & specialist support.
Find out about the programmes and schemes available to help with staff development while working at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/current-students:
Current students can access online services as well as information about a wide range of support networks and campus facilities that are available.
All the information you need to ensure that you are ready for the start of university life.
To access your individual timetable, choose one of these easy ways to help keep you on track and in the right place at the right time.
RGU monitors attendance using Attendr and absences using the Student Absence Portal.
Leaving home for the first time can be one of the most exciting things about going to university.
It’s an opportunity to live independently, meet new people and make new friends – and because Aberdeen really is a truly student-focused city, you’ll meet people from all over the world.
We have heavily invested in our support networks both on and off campus to make the experience of studying at RGU the best it can possibly be.
It is important to register with a doctor (GP) as soon as you arrive in Aberdeen.
Going to university isn’t just about getting a degree, there is an entire lifestyle that comes with being a student.
Studying is a big part of the experience, but there are also many opportunities available which will allow you to try new things, meet new people, and make the most of your free time.
Essential information for enrolled/registered research degree students at Robert Gordon University.
The IT Service Desk offers support for all your university needs.
We support students staff and visitors with everything such as IT accounts, how to connect to the wireless service, accessing and configuring email, print, copy and scan, and the location of IT labs across our campus - and lots more.
The email service is the main form of communication for all staff and students, so why not setup your account on your phone and\or tablet using our handy guides?
Access many applications including some course software, email, H drive and S drive anywhere, as if you were on campus.
The MYRGU mobile app provides an easy-to-use, personalised single access point to student systems and your information.
As part of the University's Cyber Security Initiative, a self-service password reset capability that uses multi-factor authentication to allow Students and Staff to update their passwords has been introduced.
Funding is a key consideration when thinking about university.
Find answers to your questions on finance and learn more about available scholarships.
Studying at University is an exciting and rewarding experience.
For some it also brings changes which might at times be difficult and stressful.
The Student Counselling & Wellbeing Service is here for you.
Created by students for students.
Student life can be fun, exciting, enriching or even scary and daunting at times.
We have decided we want to help by getting our students to write about their experiences, provide tips and tricks to get through university life and share amazing stories about life at RGU.
Our Employability team are committed to supporting you throughout your career, providing advice and opportunities for making the most of your time at university, individual discussions about possible career options through to decision-making and support through the application process.
Placements are an excellent opportunity for you to gain real experience and for employers to see what you have to offer.
We support students to find relevant work placement opportunities with local, national and even international organisations.
Student Ambassadors are friendly, motivated students, who are passionate about life at RGU.
Each year the RGU Student Recruitment team recruits undergraduate students from subject areas across the university who are available for work from September.
There are a number of benefits to taking a period of study or work abroad.
Although challenging, the experience can be extremely rewarding and you will develop your knowledge and skills by learning in a different social and cultural context.
Find out about opportunities for RGU students

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/contact-us:
Robert Gordon University is based in Aberdeen, Scotland, at its beautiful riverside campus.
The University has an international reputation for providing high quality education from undergraduate through to PhD level, as well as a range of commercial services and research solutions.
For general enquiries during our regular operating hours, call us on: +44 (0) 1224 262000
UK and EU Admissions admissions@rgu.ac.uk
International Admissions international@rgu.ac.uk
All Applicants
Business Services business@rgu.ac.uk
Innovation innovation@rgu.ac.uk
Our eight schools teach students on campus and online throughout the world, in hundreds of varying subjects from Physiotherapy to Law, Architecture to Engineering, Management to Art and Design, to name only a few.
The university comprises of eleven schools and a number of non-academic support departments that enhance the student experience from application to graduation and connect with businesses & the local community.
Full postal addresses and postcodes of the University are useful if travelling by car and using SatNav to find us.
Press and media enquiriers should contact the communications office for university press releases and news.
Our Emergency Response Team are on hand for genuine emergencies.
The best way to get the inside track on Robert Gordon University is to contact a Student Ambassador.
You can find out all you need to know from the students listed, and if they can’t help you, they will pass on your query to someone who can.
Our campus has has great transport links from the city or further afield.
Find out how to get here and how to park on campus if travelling by car.
Find out when our University and support buildings are open each day.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study:
Register Now
There are a number of different routes and levels of courses at RGU.
You can also progress to university from college or through our widening participation programme.
Throughout the year there are a variety of opportunities for prospective students to visit RGU, meet staff and view the facilities first hand.
We would be delighted to see you.
Coming to RGU from College?
RGU works in partnership with affiliate colleges to provide a range of guaranteed progression pathways for Scottish students.
Each year over 400 students gain advanced entry to RGU having first completed a HNC or HND at college.
Ready to apply for a place at our University and need to know what to do next?
We're here to support prospective students throughout your application process.
Event
Starts: Wednesday 10 September 2025
Are you thinking of applying to study at RGU?
Would you like some expert advice on how to make the most of your UCAS application?
Book a 1:1 appointment with a member of our team to put the finishing touches to your personal statement.
Published: Monday 29 April 2024
Students from the Scott Sutherland School of Architecture & Built Environment are building their skills with national homebuilder, Cala Homes (North), as part of a student project to design net zero carbon homes in the North East.
Published: Monday 31 July 2023
The School of Creative and Cultural Business (CCB) at RGU celebrated their end of year in style this month with a prize giving event that attracted scores of students, staff, sponsors, and friends.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu:
The Garthdee Campus sits in a wonderfully spacious parkland, adjacent to the River Dee.
Mature trees and walkways combine with striking architecture providing a beautiful backdrop for work and play.
Our sparkling city of Aberdeen, in the North East of Scotland, has been named one of the 'Best Places To Go' in the UK in 2025 by Condé Nast Traveller Magazine.
What’s it like to be a student at RGU?
Find out what university life is really like as we take you on your own personal journey through life at Robert Gordon University.
Starts: Saturday 20 September 2025
Meet RGU in person as we visit various cities in Nigeria and Ghana!
Starts: Wednesday 08 October 2025
RGU’s Grampian Community Law Centre is hosting a sponsored walk to raise funds for the Access to Justice Foundation, who ensure vulnerable people can access the legal help they need.
Published: Wednesday 04 December 2024
RGU has launched one of the largest biodiversity projects on a university campus in Scotland, aiming to transform a 55-acre site into a thriving habitat for both flora and fauna.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters:
Our alumni are truly inspiring -  finding their purpose, realising their full potential and living life to the fullest.
Read their stories.
Get in touch with the alumni and supporter teams if you have any questions or would like to update your details with the university.
Your experience, knowledge and network could provide the opportunity someone is waiting for.
Volunteer your time, experience and expertise to support the RGU community while also furthering your own personal development.
RGU is committed to changing lives.
Your donation will have an immediate and direct impact on the lives of current and future generations of RGU students.
Published: Friday 09 May 2025
Four recent Robert Gordon University (RGU) graduates have won a national award for their work on developing and hosting a hugely successful event – just 12-months after winning the same prize for a previous project.
Published: Wednesday 02 April 2025
Two stunning murals of Denis Law have now been completed in Printfield, Woodside – the area in Aberdeen where the Scottish footballing legend was born and raised – and marks a milestone in planned legacy projects in Aberdeen.
Published: Thursday 27 March 2025
Many of the region’s brightest entrepreneurs were recognised last night at Robert Gordon University’s latest Startup Accelerator Showcase.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research:
The University hosts a supportive research community based in its academic schools, providing an environment conducive to high quality student experience and achievement.
Study a research degree to fully investigate your chosen topic with supervision of world-class researchers & academics, producing new knowledge and providing new solutions to challenges within your discipline.
Are you curious about the latest and most exciting research developments and discoveries across RGU?
Our team can help you identify research funding opportunities and assist you with your funding applications.
Starts: Monday 13 October 2025
Aberdeen Business School and RGU Orkney are delighted to welcome Lisa Luken from University of Southern Maine, USA, to share her insight into Cross-cultural entrepreneurship in rural entrepreneurial ecosystems in the North Atlantic.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation:
Ensuring you and/or your workforce has the right skills is critical in a fast evolving world.
Whether you are looking for opportunities for yourself or your staff, find out what RGU can do for you.
We are passionate about working with you at RGU.
We offer several ways to support you in building your ideas and provide you with the support to take the next step with your business.
At Robert Gordon University, we pride ourselves on nurturing the best of local and international emerging talent.
Consistently ranked among the top universities in the UK for student employability and graduate employment, we offer a unique opportunity for employers to connect with our highly skilled students and graduates.
As a university, we exist to be a place of curiosity and new thinking.
We need to prepare our communities for the challenges of the future by designing new solutions.
Our Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group help drive innovation and support new enterprises to create impact and contribute to Scotland’s economic prosperity.
Starts: Tuesday 16 September 2025
Two powerhouse entrepreneurs.
One unforgettable evening.
Join us for an electrifying night of ambition, insight, and unapologetic inspiration.
Sponsored by RGU, this event brings bold conversation, straight-talking advice, and a serious shot of entrepreneurial energy.
Published: Friday 11 July 2025
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has today announced the team that will spearhead the Islands Entrepreneurship Network, an initiative led by the University designed to energise local economies and empower communities to launch and grow successful enterprises across Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles.
Published: Wednesday 16 April 2025
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has appointed a digital and start-up expert as their latest Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/course-search:
Use the course selector to find a course that interests you.
Use the filters to narrow down your search.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/visit-us/open-days:
Visit Us
Our undergraduate Open Days are your opportunity to learn more about life at one of the top universities in Scotland for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide 2025).
You will be able to speak with lecturers, student support services and current students and discover our outstanding facilities and campus.
We can’t wait to show you what’s on offer at one of our Undergraduate Open Days!
There’s lots to see and get involved with - get a taste of what being a student at RGU is really like.
We can’t wait to welcome you to our beautiful riverside campus during one of our on campus Open Days.
Being on campus is the best way for you to explore your potential study environment, get a feel for the university and speak to course leaders, student support services and current students face to face!
These events are your opportunity to:
Read the student blog to find out more about our Open Days:
Download the Open Day timetable to find out more about what to expect on the day:
RGU Undergraduate Open Day Timetable August 2025
Find out how to get on campus and available transport links from the city or further afield:
If you meet our ‘wider access’ criteria and are travelling to one of our open days from out with Aberdeen City, you can claim up to 75% of your travel costs back from us.
Check if you meet our criteria or contact access@rgu.ac.uk :
You can also experience what it is like to be an undergraduate student at RGU with one of our Discovery Days, Campus Visits or other events:
If you have any questions about the undergraduate Open Days, registration or if you wish to register your interest and receive future updates, email:
If you have any questions about the events, please contact openday@rgu.ac.uk
You can also chat to staff members of some of our support departments.
We're here to help you support your child/dependant through their university experience.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/your-time-is-now:
Study a postgraduate degree at RGU and get ready for your career to thrive .
Whether you are looking to advance your career, change career direction or pursue a passion, we will have a postgraduate degree that will help you get there.
We offer a range of demand-driven, quality assured Master’s degrees across a variety of subjects.
Many of our courses offer flexible modes of study including full-time, part-time, on campus and/or online, so you can study at a pace that best suits your lifestyle.
We know that funding is a key consideration when deciding to study a Master’s course.
Find out more about the scholarships and funding that could be available to you.
If you are studying full-time or part-time, your student fees could be divided into instalments.
The MSc helped to equip me with a wealth of knowledge and skills which can be transferred into real life.
Suzanne Thomson, MSc Public Health and Health Promotion graduate I have been able to make connections with people from all around the world, and the knowledge that I obtained has helped propel me into the next chapter of my life both professionally and personally.
Roan Ferrier, MSc International Marketing graduate The lecturers and support staff at RGU have been amazing.
They were always available to answer questions and provide support where needed.
Emma Lovie, LLM Oil, Gas, & Renewable Energy Law graduate
Get a real insight and find out what it’s like to be a postgraduate student at RGU by speaking to our current students .
If you’re not quite ready to apply to study a postgraduate degree at RGU just yet, you can register your interest in one of our courses.
Apply Now
We’re delighted you're ready to apply to study a postgraduate degree at RGU.
Apply Online Now
Applications for most Postgraduate courses are made direct to the University.
RGU offers a wide variety of postgraduate courses that will help you stand out in a competitive job market and advance your career, as well as the potential to unlock greater earning opportunities!
But it can sometimes be daunting to take a leap and pursue your studies.
Read our blog to learn more about how RGU can help you overcome the barriers that prevent you from applying for a course.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses:
Types of Study
Study at a top university for student satisfaction and employability.
Choose from over 70 undergraduate degrees, all designed to prepare you for the world of work.
Choosing where to study your undergraduate degree is an important yet exciting life decision.
There are a number of reasons why we think applying to Robert Gordon University (RGU) is the right decision for you.
We offer courses across a wide range of subject areas including Computing, Art & Design, Creative Industries, Engineering, Business and Law, the Health Professions and Architecture and the Built Environment.
Check out the course pages for more information, entry requirements and how to apply.
Get a head start in building a career in accounting and finance through our accounting and finance course which is relevant for today’s accounting profession.
Our courses are designed with the future work environment in mind, focussing on big topics such as the environment and sustainability.
Explore our Art & Design disciplines through our range of creative courses set within a stunning natural landscape and riverside campus.
Our strong industry relationships ensure our business and management courses are constantly developing in line with industry demand.
Develop specialist and transferable skills through our portfolio of highly creative and interdisciplinary courses.
Computing, information technology and the digital world are all rapidly evolving, playing a part in almost every aspect of human activity.
Study computing at RGU and get ready to shape our digital future.
Situated in the energy capital of Europe, we work closely with local, national and international companies to ensure our courses continue to meet the demands of employers and their changing industries.
Situated in the energy capital of Europe, we are committed to producing industry ready, highly employable, next generation engineers across a range of disciplines.
Our demand-driven and quality assured courses will ensure you are ready for the world of work.
Develop core management and specialist knowledge and skills in events, tourism and hospitality which will enable you to be successful within industry.
Build the skills and expertise which are necessary to pursue a career within today’s dynamic fashion environment.
Make a valuable contribution to the wellbeing of our society through a career in health and sport science.
Professionally accredited, our law degrees offer a balance of the practical and academic which can help you on your way to a career within the legal profession.
Develop the skills needed to embark on a challenging, yet rewarding, career within nursing, midwifery and paramedic practice.
Benefit from shared learning experiences across a broad range of subject areas through our multi-disciplinary courses
A wide-range of career possibilities are available through our industry-relevant courses.
Most applicants from the United Kingdom and EU will apply to other universities as well as RGU so we would suggest they apply through a single online Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Students who are applying internationally to only RGU can apply directly.
Published: Tuesday 25 February 2025
Communication Design students from RGU’s Gray’s School of Art will sell bespoke prints at Edit, the independent lifestyle store in the Bon Accord Centre, Aberdeen.
Published: Monday 17 February 2025
Robert Gordon University’s (RGU) Aberdeen Business School (ABS) has received prestigious backing through official accreditation from a leading energy professional membership body.
Your next step could be your best yet.
This is your future and it starts at RGU.
Apply today!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses:
Whether you have recently graduated, want professional accreditation, are looking to retrain or develop your career - whatever your reasons for postgraduate study - we offer a wide range of courses with flexible study modes including online, part-time or full-time to fit around your needs.
Develop your knowledge and enhance your career when you invest in your future with a postgraduate degree in accounting and finance.
Whatever your career goal, our postgraduate architecture, construction and surveying degrees will help you build the expertise that employers are looking for.
Enhance your creative career prospects and build upon your existing knowledge and skills by undertaking a postgraduate course in one of our Art or Design disciplines.
Gain the skills to lead, innovate and adapt when you invest in your future with a business and management postgraduate degree.
Our Communication, Marketing and Media course portfolio has changed the way people think about business.
We're constantly innovating, creating new ways of thinking, different ways of learning and better ways of teaching.
If you are looking to build on your existing knowledge or wanting to change your career, we offer a range of industry relevant and professionally accredited postgraduate computing degrees that will help you do just that.
Situated in the energy capital of Europe, we offer a range of demand-driven, energy related postgraduate degrees.
Want to stay ahead of the curve in engineering?
Our degrees will support your professional development and provide the knowledge, experience and skills to achieve your ambitions.
Our programmes have been developed in close consultation with industry, offering internationally recognised standards of education.
Our approach focuses on giving you a strong qualification and vocationally relevant skills for future career progression.
Our courses encourage and support your creative development, imagination and ideas which can be applied within the fashion, or a related creative, sector.
Positively impact the health and wellbeing of others by undertaking a relevant postgraduate course which focuses on the ability to effectively apply the knowledge acquired to real-life work-related experiences.
Through our sustained strong relationships with industry our courses are continuously evolving in line with industry demand, with graduates working in all parts of the information and library sectors.
We offer a variety of law courses, whether you have a background in law or no formal legal qualifications, our specialist law courses will lead you on to a range of careers in the legal profession.
Develop your skills and personal development within a constantly changing healthcare environment with a postgraduate qualification.
Providing you with a unique learning experience and the professional knowledge and skills required to develop your practice.
Undertaking a postgraduate course in social studies will give you the ability to positively impact society and improve the lives of individuals in an important profession.
Read about the courses on offer at RGU for undergraduate, postgraduate, online learning and international applicants.
Published: Friday 04 July 2025
A social entrepreneur based in Aberdeenshire who leads Scotland’s largest men's health charity has been awarded an Honorary Degree from Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Published: Friday 20 December 2024
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has further strengthened its international collaborations with the launch of a new energy doctoral programme that will enable students to study in both Aberdeen and Nigeria.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses:
We offer quality assured, flexible online degrees which will develop your professional skills and enhance your career prospects.
In the last 5 years, we have had more than 5000 students enrolled on an online degree!
Whether you are looking to upskill, take the next step in your career or simply develop your learning in a new subject area, we offer over 100 online degrees to study at your convenience.
Our online courses are delivered using our virtual learning environment Moodle which enables full and open access to your tutors, relevant industry professionals and other online students across the world, ensuring your student experience is positive and valuable.
You will learn via different media formats including online lectures, podcasts and tutorials.
Our approach to online learning puts you in control, allowing you to fit your studies around your life and work commitments.
Want to find out what it is like to be an online student at RGU?
Read Lindsay and Therese’s inspiring online journeys.
Our courses are designed with the future work environment in mind.
Undertake an online learning course where systems such as Skype are used to hold online tutorials, guest presentations, virtual site visits and interviews.
Undertake one of our highly creative and interdisciplinary courses where you can interact with fellow students and tutors through innovative technologies, including: podcasts, videos, chat and forum discussions.
Situated in the energy capital of Europe, our flexible online energy courses will develop your professional skills and advance your career.
Take your career to the next level and develop your professional skills with an online engineering degree.
Positively impact the health and wellbeing of others by undertaking a health and sport course.
Take part in online tutorial sessions through the virtual classroom utilising innovative technologies to facilitate engagement and encourage discussion and debate.
Our unique courses offers a flexible learning route, designed to provide you with key knowledge across all main areas of Scots Law.
Study online to further your career and enhance your skills while fitting around your work schedule.
Benefit from shared learning experiences across a broad range of subject areas through our multi-disciplinary online learning courses.
Undertaking an online learning course in social studies will give you the ability to positively impact society and improve the lives of individuals in an important profession.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/discover-aberdeen:
Life at RGU
Whether you’re studying, living or just visiting, Aberdeen offers an exciting mix of outdoor adventures, a beautiful golden beach, captivating museums, an impressive art gallery, peaceful parks and gardens, and a vibrant food scene.
Surrounded by the breathtaking landscapes of Aberdeenshire, you can explore historic castles, visit famous film locations, and enjoy a wide range of thrilling activities, from surfing and paddle-boarding to hiking, mountain biking, and skiing.
In fact, Aberdeenshire was named the top destination to visit in 2023 by Good Housekeeping .
With its stunning natural surroundings, strong economy, exceptional educational and healthcare systems, and a thriving sense of community, Aberdeen is indeed a standout city in the UK.
Aberdeen's unique combination of beauty, opportunity, and community spirit makes it a truly exceptional place to call home.
Mortgages for Doctors
Discover UnDiscovered Aberdeen - your guide to unique experiences, secret spots, and local treasures across the city:
Aberdeen has been named one of the 'Best Places to Go' in the UK for 2025 by the prestigious Condé Nast Traveller magazine.
The only Scottish city to make the list, Aberdeen is highlighted for its emerging culinary scene, historic cobbled streets, and stunning proximity to picturesque seaside views.
This lively, student-friendly city offers plenty of things to explore.
Spend your free time wandering through charming old towns, relaxing on our golden beach, indulging in local food and drink, or soaking up the culture at live events, art galleries, and museums.
Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire boast miles of stunning beaches and colourful coastal villages, perfect for outdoor adventures.
You can also venture into our majestic countryside to witness breathtaking mountain views and tranquil lochs, surf or paddleboard through coastal coves, climb Munros, or hit the ski slopes.
The cobbled streets of Old Aberdeen are chock full of history, while the wind off the sometimes-dreich Beach Esplanade whips you awake just in time to explore a line of seaside food trucks selling everything from artery-clogging full Scottish breakfasts to indecently gooey slices of cheesecake.
Scott Campbell Condé Nast Traveller magazine
Inspiration for the best spring in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire We’re so lucky to call Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire home, and as the days start to get longer and the nights lighter, there are endless opportunities to explore our colourful surroundings in spring.
Top 6 summer sports and activities in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire Adventure awaits in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire during the summer, with many sports and activities that will allow you to experience the wild outdoors!
Navigate the North Sea, explore the region by land, or simply gather with friends to play some sports with our top 6 of the best summer activities in the region.
Explore Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire through surprising facts Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire have a rich history, with unique attractions, landmarks and locations.
While studying at RGU, you will have plenty of opportunities to explore the city and the region.
To help you start, here is a list of surprising facts that will inspire you to embark on your own Aberdeen adventure!
We’re so lucky to call Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire home, and as the days start to get longer and the nights lighter, there are endless opportunities to explore our colourful surroundings in spring.
Adventure awaits in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire during the summer, with many sports and activities that will allow you to experience the wild outdoors!
Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire have a rich history, with unique attractions, landmarks and locations.
Read what our students have to say about their experiences living in Aberdeen in the RGU Student Blog .
Expect to be entertained all year round in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire as you celebrate our rich local culture and see famous faces live on stage.
This part of Scotland is alive with culture and entertainment, including our very own Look Again programme and our Degree Shows .
You can attend plenty of festivals and events throughout the year, celebrating music, food, art, winter, comedy, dance, theatre and local heritage.
Aberdeen, Scotland's third-largest city, is easily accessible with a range of transport options making it simple to travel here and explore beyond the city.
Once in Aberdeen, you’ll find various ways to get around, including buses (all under 22s travel for free), trains, taxis and the city centre’s e-bikes.
Aberdeen is just a 2.5 hour drive from both Edinburgh and Glasgow, and with its international airport offering flights from over 30 destinations, including just a 1.5-hour flight from London, travelling to and from the city is a breeze.
Find out more about Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire on RGU Talk
Aberdeen is a hidden gem, tucked away in the stunning North East corner of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/7928-rgu-honoured-for-public-engagement-efforts:
Wednesday 12 March 2025
The award is granted by the NCCPE to higher education institutions to recognise their strategic support for public engagement and their commitment to improve the support oﬀered.
RGU was awarded the watermark following a robust assessment process involving staff from across the University community.
Judges praised RGU for its “many excellent examples of engaged practice” across the University’s teaching, learning and research and that “engagement is already an embedded part of your culture.”
Professor Nick Fyfe , Vice Principal for Research and Community Engagement at RGU, said: “This prestigious national recognition highlights the University's commitment to public engagement and the positive impacts we have made through working closely with our local communities.
“The award acknowledges RGU's exceptional efforts, particularly in areas such as engaged practice within teaching and learning, public engagement with research, student volunteering opportunities, and long-standing flagship initiatives such as Look Again organised by Gray's School of Art and Streetsport in collaboration with the Denis Law Legacy Trust.
“Additionally, our refreshed strategy, set out to transform people and communities and placing community engagement at its heart, was also recognised.
RGU is honoured to be awarded bronze status, and I would like to express my gratitude to everyone within RGU and those in external partner organisations who contributed to this great achievement.”
Paul Manners, Co-director of the NCCPE said: “The NCCPE is focused on building an inclusive higher education sector where public engagement can thrive.
We are delighted to award Robert Gordon University a bronze Watermark, which recognises their commitment to enhancing capability and building capacity for a flourishing engagement culture.
Getting to know the engagement work underway at the university has been a delight.
“From the work with the Dennis Law Trust on Streetsport; the outreach into priority neighbourhoods; to the many rich and varied ways in which engagement is threaded through research and teaching – this is a university which cares deeply about its communities and how to work meaningfully with them.
The award recognises this commitment to public engagement, and the ambition to build on these foundations.”
Just as a watermark runs through the fabric of a document, an Engage Watermark indicates that engagement runs through the fabric of an institution.
As part of the Watermark process, RGU have produced an ambitious three year action plan to take forward public engagement and the focus is now on implementing this.
The university’s culture is part of the institution’s identity and defines what it values as a community.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/sustainability:
About
At Robert Gordon University, sustainability is not just a goal - it's a guiding principle that shapes the university’s operations, teaching, research, and community engagement.
RGU is committed to fostering a culture of environmental responsibility and social equity, embedding sustainable practices across campus life and academic disciplines.
From reducing carbon emissions and enhancing biodiversity to supporting ethical enterprise and sustainable innovation, the university actively contributes to a more resilient and inclusive future.
RGU was awarded the Bronze Engage Watermark by the National Co-Ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCCPE) for its commitment to community engagement through knowledge-sharing and teaching.
RGU maintained a commendable ranking for its sustainability efforts, placing 2nd in Scotland and receiving a 2:1 score in the People and Planet Sustainability League Table 2024/25.
RGU achieved bronze status for the Athena Swan Charter which supports and transforms gender equality within Higher Education Institutions.
The importance of sustaining the climate for future generations cannot be underestimated, which is why everyone at Robert Gordon University is committed to doing their part.
Sustainability at RGU is not just about cutting carbon emissions; it is about ensuring the University actively showcases what it is doing to help future generations thrive.
“We are in a unique position where we can help shape the wider debate on the planet’s future with our thought leadership on energy transition, engaging with the brightest and best young minds in higher education, allowing them to solve significant environmental issues, and working alongside industry to find the best way to reach our goals towards net zero.” - Prof.
Steve Olivier – Principal and Vice Chancellor
Partnerships with organisations outside the University are a vital part of our sustainable journey because we cannot do this alone.
Our Energy Transition Institute is actively working alongside the sector to map out a green future for Aberdeen and the North East by helping to shape the workforce and harness the skills and capabilities in the region.
Our Garthdee campus is physically connected with the environment, with the banks of the River Dee running nearby.
It is vital that everyone – staff and students – play an active part in making sure we reach our goals so we can move a step closer to sustainability.
Work has already begun to ensure the University is helping to tackle the climate crisis by making a positive contribution to the planet and society.
Working in collaboration with students and staff, RGU aims to significantly reduce emissions from energy, transport and consumables, while factoring recycling and building sustainability into all our future decisions.
Our unique riverside campus lies on the banks of the River Dee and is home to a vast array of flora and fauna which the University is committed to helping thrive.
RGU demonstrates a strong commitment to social and corporate responsibility through our integrated approach to sustainability.
We align our sustainability efforts with our broader responsibilities as a civic institution and leader in higher education.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/equality:
Governance
It is the policy of the University to promote equality and diversity in employment, student and external interaction, and to eradicate discrimination on unlawful or unfair grounds.
Our Equality Action Groups are created with the intention to bring together colleagues from across the university to contribute and challenge, reinforce and recognise the on-going commitment of RGU to equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Our events and activities around Equality, Diversity and Inclusion aim to create and promote an inclusive environment where everyone feels valued and respected at Robert Gordon University.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/international:
Study
If you are considering a full time on campus study option starting in September 2025 or January 2026 then please be aware application deadlines are in place which may affect your first choice of start date or course selection.
Come to study.
Find Scotland.
Find Aberdeen.
Robert Gordon University is a licensed Student Sponsor and has a dedicated Immigration Team to help you throughout the process of getting your CAS for your visa application.
English is the language of instruction at Robert Gordon University.
We offer support with learning and testing to ensure that those applying for courses can meet the entry requirements.
RGU is proud to say that of the 18,000 students studying with us, more than 150 countries are represented within our student body.
The student recruitment team travel throughout the world to meet with prospective students, and when that is not possible we have agents in most countries who can help answer questions about RGU.
Whatever part of the world you are from, we have specialist team who can help you through the application process and answer questions you have about studying at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news:
Monday 25 August 2025
Thursday 21 August 2025
Wednesday 20 August 2025
Thursday 14 August 2025
Up to 60% of women experience some fear about giving birth, especially for the first time, but a new study led by RGU shows why some women are more likely to stay calm and confident in the lead-up to childbirth.
Thursday 07 August 2025
A plaque recognising the achievements of sculptor Scott Sutherland has been unveiled outside the original Gray’s School of Art building on Schoolhill in Aberdeen, where he began his training.
Robert Gordon University (RGU) is to launch a new BSc (Hons) Clinical Practice for Pharmacy Technicians, the first of its kind in the UK.
RGU and McAlpha Inc.
have developed an advanced Catalytic Membrane Reactor (CMR) technology, poised to revolutionise ammonia production.
Keith Brymer Jones, a leading figure in contemporary British ceramics and expert judge on Channel 4’s hit show, The Great Pottery Throw Down, has been awarded an Honorary Degree from Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Jane Akadiri graduated with a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from RGU in 2016.
She went on to found Touch of Love Outreach in Aberdeen, which helps to build strong, more inclusive communities.
Dr Bouziane Kies, who helped secure large numbers of international staff for Algerian Universities after the departure of French teachers in 1972 and thereby helped to keep Algeria’s universities open, has received an honorary degree from Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Dr Kies has also championed RGU in Algeria for the last twenty years.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events:
Friday 29 August 2025
Learn more about the StoriedPlace Toolkit and how to use it for your storytelling projects!
During this event we will discuss a variety of topics for valuable, ethical, sustainable and place-conscious storytelling.
Saturday 30 August 2025
Join Robert Gordon University in Kenya for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success.
Monday 01 September 2025
Gray’s School of Art presents its 2025 Master’s Graduate Exhibition, showcasing diverse, thought-provoking work by Art & Design students exploring personal, cultural, and ecological themes through varied creative disciplines.
Wednesday 03 September 2025
This year’s annual Aberdeen Cultural Summit aims not only to inspire but to create an action plan to work towards a thriving Screen sector in the North-East of Scotland.
If you’re unable to attend our Open Days then our weekly Campus Visit events are the perfect opportunity to experience what it is like to be an undergraduate student at RGU.
Meet RGU in India!
From April to May, find us as we attend in-person education fairs across the country.
We can’t wait to show you what’s on offer at one of our Undergraduate Open Days.
Join us for an online question and answer session for potential applicants for the BA (Hons) Social Work by Distance Learning course.
Meet RGU’s in-country manager, Iain Duff when he visits Nepal in September.
Discover Robert Gordon University with our in-country- representative Feona.
Learn about our programmes and the unique student experience awaiting you in Aberdeen, Scotland.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8372-gray-s-school-of-art-set-to-open-doors-for-masters-degree-show-2025:
A regular highlight of Aberdeen’s cultural calendar, it will showcase the talent of the MA students across a range of creative disciplines including sculptural installation, photography, painting, performance, ceramics, graphic design, fashion illustration and fashion design.
Some of the students explore common themes addressing personal, cultural or political histories, whilst others work has sought to incite conversations that evoke more ethical or ecological practices that ask us all to tread a little more lightly.
Among the exhibiting artists are Rowan Flint, Rachel Fowler, Miriam Foy, Chimdindu Ikoro, Paul Irvine, Alex Kane, Andrew Kinnear, Kirsty MacDonald, Kerry Marr, Molly Mavor, Joanna Middelthon, Godspower Okoro, Marcelle Touw Riemersma, Max Ross, and MJ Scott.
The degree show coincides with an exhibition to showcase graduate fine artists and designers from Gray’s Graduate in Residence 2024– 2025 programme.
This programme offers a unique opportunity for recent graduates at Gray’s to spend a year supporting the art school’s Fine Art & Design curriculum, whilst developing their practice.
It comes as Gray’s School of Art nears its 140th anniversary celebrations with a special exhibition and programme of events taking place to mark the significant milestone.
Dean for Gray’s School of Art, Dan Allen, said: “This is an exciting opportunity for our MA cohort to celebrate their fantastic achievements with both their friends and family but also to showcase their talent to industry experts as they embark on professional careers.
We are delighted to be able to welcome members of the public to the university so they can experience for themselves the creative journeys our graduating students have encountered during their time at Gray’s School of Art.
"Gray’s offers an inclusive and supportive environment that fosters critically and socially engaged, enterprising creatives.
Many of our students have progressed from our undergraduate programme here at Gray’s School of Art or have returned to study after working in industry to develop their practice as part of Gray’s specialist and interdisciplinary master’s curriculum.
"As we prepare to celebrate 140 years of Gray’s School of Art, the Master’s Art & Design degree show highlights how the school is still shining brightly as a creative powerhouse in Scotland.”
Godspower Okoro, whose body of work is entitled Rituals for the Unspoken, said his time at Gray’s School of Art had been “truly transformative” as he embraced Scottish mythology with his own Nigerian traditions.
He said: "One of the most unique aspects of my time at Gray’s was how I was able to merge my Nigerian tradition with Scottish folklore to create a deeply personal and culturally layered body of work.
A particularly powerful moment was during a field trip to the Scottish Sculpture Workshop, where I performed an Iyi-Ụwa ritual, a traditional Igbo practice, at the mountaintop as part of my research into healing, grief, and memory.
This experience became a turning point in my practice, connecting ancestral knowledge with contemporary visual storytelling."
The exhibition is free to visit and opens to the public from Monday 1 September Wednesday 10 September.
Visitors will be able to visit Gray’s dedicated studios and exhibition space to explore the multitude of talent on show.
Main image: David Blyth (left) Postgraduate Co-ordinator at Gray's School of Art with the 2025 cohort.
Credit: Nicole Paterson
Engage is a creative development programme designed at Gray’s School of Art and is delivered in our purpose-built studios and workshops.
This five-day interactive programme invites senior pupils from schools across North East Scotland to engage.
The programme aims to support the transition from school to university, and provides a practical insight to what students experience in their first year of study at Gray’s School of Art.
Our weekly evening workshops are designed to support both beginner's interests in art and design, alongside continued professional development for those seeking to enhance their skillsets and expertise.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8369-researchers-shine-a-light-on-how-human-factors-can-improve-safety-in-offshore-wind:
Dr Ruby Roberts and Professor Rhona Flin from Aberdeen Business School have published a paper entitled Human Factors in Onshore and Offshore Wind: A Scoping Review, which has identified 16 key human factors (HF), ranging from psychological and environmental to organisational, that impact technician safety and performance during operations and maintenance.
Subsequent work drawing on focus group workshops with those working in the industry, highlights a growing recognition of HF as a vital component of health and safety management.
It also calls for the development of a positive safety culture within the wind industry, where safety is a key priority and technicians can speak up without fear of reprisal.
Dr Roberts said: “A safe and competent workforce is essential to the long-term success of the wind industry.
Our findings offer a more comprehensive understanding of the human challenges faced by onshore and offshore wind technicians, providing a foundation for future safety interventions.”
“It’s really about understanding the factors that influence technicians’ ability to do their job well – their skills and competencies, how they work in a team, whether they trust each other, and how their organisation supports them.”
Professor Flin added: “By taking a psychological approach, we’re not just looking at equipment and design, we’re examining how people interact with complex systems in their everyday work.
This is key to preventing incidents and supporting workforce wellbeing.”
A human factors survey launched this week in collaboration with GWO aims to create a unique snapshot of what it is like to work in the wind sector.
Asking wind workers about the human factors that they perceive to impact on their health, safety and productivity.
Wind workers are invited to share their views:
Read the full paper:
Images show Dr Ruby Roberts and Professor Rhona Flin.
RGU's research is directed towards societal impact.
Our focus is on generating improvements in the quality of life, supporting more innovative businesses, unlocking cultural creativity and contributing towards a more successful and sustainable economy.
Our research makes a difference.
Read through our resources and guidance to help you identify funding opportunities and how to apply for funding.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8358-rgu-researchers-to-explore-role-of-pv-systems-on-historic-buildings:
HI-SCOT is a collaboration between RGU and Edinburgh Napier University, and partnership with Built Environment Forum Scotland, Centre for Engineering, Education and Development, and Dar Al-Arqam, a community centre that owns a historic building from 1859.
This is with the distinct aim of exploring how PV systems can blend with ancient architecture while also addressing wider challenges around aesthetics, regulation and public acceptance.
The research will explore mimicking traditional materials and using coatings to minimise visual impact, creating guidelines for Scotland's historic architecture.
Professor Nadimul Faisal, from RGU’s School of Computing, Engineering and Technology , said: “HI-SCOT will bridge Scotland’s rich heritage with a sustainable future, pioneering innovative PV integration in historic buildings to inspire policy change, public support, and climate action without compromising architectural beauty.”
Dr Nazmi Sellami, Associate Professor, Edinburgh Napier University, said: “HI-SCOT will explore how historic buildings can contribute to Scotland’s net zero ambitions.
By investigating the integration of solar technologies into heritage architecture, the project aims to show that environmental responsibility and conservation can work hand in hand.”
Funded by Scotland Beyond Net Zero, a coalition of leading climate and sustainability experts from Scotland's universities, this project is one of 11 new research collaborations aimed at accelerating Scotland’s transition to net zero.
Each project involves cross-sector collaborations to address sustainability challenges in energy, finance, food, the built environment, natural systems, and transport.
Professor Nick Forsyth, Vice-Principal (Research) at the University of Aberdeen and Chair of Scotland Beyond Net Zero’s seed fund panel added: "This is the second round of our seed fund, we have now supported 19 innovative and collaborative projects with a total of around £300k of funding.
Each project involves at least two of our member universities and one external partner, including community groups, government bodies, and the private sector.
This collaborative and integrated approach is crucial to us meeting Scotland's ambitious net zero targets.
We cannot achieve these targets in isolation, we must work together to innovative, inform and adapt."
Research related news from Robert Gordon University.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/academic-calendar:
Find important dates such as the start of term, exams week and graduations ceremonies.
Academic Calendar 2024-2025 PDF - 121KB DOWNLOAD Academic Calendar 2025-2026 PDF - 79KB DOWNLOAD
The Academic Calendar may be subject to review by Academic Council.
During public and fixed holidays campus buildings may be closed, please refer to:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk:
The IT Service Desk Support Portal allows students and staff to log and monitor any queries or requests.
Part of the Portal is a self-help Solutions area (including an FAQ section) that allows a user to view support articles and documents that may help with any issues, questions and procurement requests.
IT Services support the Audio Visual equipment in over 200 teaching and meeting rooms with a number of digital enhancements taking place each year keep up with the evolving world of hybrid and on campus learning.
Your RGU username and password will let you log in to computers on campus, plus MyApps, the VLE (Moodle), Sharepoint (RGyoU), Wi-Fi (eduroam), email and much more, depending on your status.
Wifi is available across the university.
University staff and students should use the secure and constantly free “eduroam” wireless service with The Cloud available for non-eduroam users.
RGU uses a print queue called Print@RGU, which is available university wide, allowing both staff and students to collect print jobs from Canon Multifunctional Devices (MFDs) that are scattered across the University campus.
Contact us by email, telephone or get help in person on campus

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/library:
The Library is open for Semester 3 opening hours, until Monday 8th September when we change to Semester 1 opening hours.
Full details of times are available on the opening hours page
Level 9 is currently available for open study on most days.
Please check the timetable prior to entering as the room may be booked for exams or events at short notice.
Find out about our services, facilities and support available
Resources, guides and support, tailored for your subject
The library offers a comprehensive programme of workshops throughout the academic year to help 
					support your studies, covering topics such as academic searching, Harvard referencing and RefWorks
We are here to support you, regardless of your method of study.
We have a range of specific services to support you with your studies
Services and support for your teaching
Information, resources and services to help with your research
Everything you need to know about RGU Harvard, Vancouver, APA, and RefWorks
Leganto is the Library's online reading list service.
With a friendly interface, it provides
					access to engaging resource lists for staff and students.
If you have any questions about the reading lists, please contact us at readinglists@rgu.ac.uk
Find out about the art and heritage collections at RGU
Find out when we're open and how you can get in touch
University Library, The Sir Ian Wood Building, Robert Gordon University, Garthdee Road, Aberdeen, AB10 7GJ, Scotland, UK

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview:
Contact
Contact the editors
RGView connects the university through stories of collaboration, innovation, and ambition.
It celebrates our strategic achievements and recognises staff for their successes.
If you’d like to share any thoughts or story ideas, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/university-policies:
There are a number of policies that affect staff, students and the wider community.
Absence Sickness Absence Policy and Procedure (PDF 216KB)
Academic Freedom Policy (PDF 135KB)
Academic Quality Handbook
Academic Regulations
Adoption & Surrogacy Leave Policy (PDF 261KB)
Admissions Recruitment and Admissions to Higher Education Policy (PDF 398KB)
Anti-Money Laundering Policy (PDF 1.4MB)
Art & Heritage Policies
Art & Heritage Collections Access and Engagement Policy Impact Assessment (PDF 83KB)
Art & Heritage Collections Management and Development Policy Impact Assessment (PDF 76KB)
Assessment Policy & Procedures
Recording of Teaching and Learning Activities Policy
Attendance and Engagement Policy (PDF 185KB)
Authorised Signatories Legal Designations and Authorised Signatories (PDF 80KB)
Bribery Act 2010
Budget RAM and Budget Information
Car Parking Parking Policy (PDF 555KB)
Children and Young Persons on Premises Policy (PDF 488KB)
Collections Art & Heritage Policies
Commercialisation Intellectual Property Commercialisation Policy (PDF 221KB)
Complaints Handling Procedure
Conflict of Interest Policy (PDF 537KB)
Conflict of Interest Policy - Policy Guidance Notes (PDF 629KB)
Contracts Policy and Procedure (PDF 822KB)
Contract for the Provision of Services Authorisation Form (DOC 64KB)
Contract for Services – Insurance Flowchart (PDF 325KB)
Tax Guidelines for Payments to Contractors (PDF 153KB)
Criminal Convictions Student Criminal Conviction Policy and Procedure (PDF 215KB)
Criminal Convictions Criminal Conviction Declarations
Dignity at RGU Policy (PDF 3.8MB)
Disciplinary Policy and Procedure (PDF 548KB)
Disclosures in the Public Interest Whistleblowing (Disclosures in the Public Interest)
Drugs Student Drugs Policy (PDF 122KB)
Emergency Time off for Dependents Policy (PDF 582KB)
Equality and Diversity Policy
Equality and Diversity Policy Impact Report (PDF 130KB)
Ethics Policy (PDF 226KB)
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement
Bribery Act Guidance (PDF 153KB)
Expenses Staff Expenses Policy (PDF 543KB)
Fair Work Statement (PDF 123KB)
Fertility Treatment Leave Policy (PDF 178KB)
Financial Regulations (PDF 446KB)
Flexible Working Scheme (PDF 267KB)
Flexible Working Scheme Application (PDF 197KB)
Foster Care Leave Policy (PDF 185KB)
Fraud Policy (PDF 139KB)
Gift and Hospitality Policy (PDF 1.03MB)
Grievance Policy and Procedure (PDF 492KB)
Guest Speaker Protocol (PDF 207KB)
Health and Safety Policy Statement
Heating Policy (PDF 200KB)
HR Strategy (PDF 59KB)
Hybrid Working Policy (PDF 1.3KB)
Ill-Health Capability Policy and Procedure (PDF 455KB)
Information Governance
Information Governance Policy (PDF 223KB)
Intellectual Property Commercialisation Policy (PDF 221KB)
International Deposit and Refund Policy (PDF 172KB)
Investment Policy (PDF 166KB)
IT Acceptable Use Policy (PDF 164KB)
Leave Adoption & Surrogacy Leave Policy (PDF 261KB)
Leave Dependents Leave Policy (PDF 268KB)
Leave Fertility Treatment Leave Policy (PDF 178KB)
Leave Foster Care Leave Policy (PDF 185KB)
Leave Maternity Leave Policy (PDF 531KB)
Leave Parental Leave Policy (PDF 212KB)
Leave Paternity & Supporting Partner Leave Policy (PDF 203KB)
Leave Shared Parental Leave Policy (PDF 301KB)
Legal Designations and Authorised Signatories (PDF 80KB)
Maternity Leave Policy (PDF 531KB)
Mental Health Student Mental Health Policy (PDF 110KB)
Modern Slavery Statement (PDF 172KB)
Money Laundering Anti-Money Laundering Policy (PDF 1.4MB)
Organisational Regulations
Parental Leave Policy (PDF 212KB)
Parking Policy (PDF 555KB)
Paternity & Supporting Partner Leave Policy (PDF 203KB)
Pay for Senior Manager Policy (PDF 463KB)
Pay Policy and Procedures (PDF 599KB)
Personal Tutoring Policy (PDF 164KB)
Philanthropic Gift Acceptance Policy (PDF 136KB)
Procurement Policy (PDF 3.61MB)
Procurement Procedure (PDF 1.09MB)
Contract & Supplier Management Procedure (PDF 2MB)
Non-Competitive Action FAQ’s (PDF 113KB)
Non-Competitive Action Form (DOCX 47KB)
Supplier KPI Examples (PPT 66KB)
Contract & Supplier Management Agenda – Quarterly Review (DOCX 22KB)
Contract & Supplier Management - Contract Review Sign-off Sheet (DOCX 45KB)
RAM and Budget Information
Recruitment and Admissions to Higher Education Policy (PDF 398KB)
Recruitment and Selection Policy (PDF 2MB)
Redundancy Policy and Procedure (PDF 232KB)
Redundancy Compensation Scheme (PDF 480KB)
Relocation Assistance Policy (PDF 268KB)
Relocation Assistance Impact Assessment (PDF 138KB)
Research Data Management Policy (PDF 1.86MB)
Research Data Management Policy Impact Assessment (PDF 142KB)
Research Ethics Policy (PDF 59KB)
Research Integrity and Misconduct Policy (PDF 107KB)
Research Involving Animals Policy
Responsibilities for Governors Statement (PDF 25KB)
Risk Management Policy (PDF 142KB)
Risk Appetite Statement (PDF 1.13MB)
Sabbatical Policy (PDF 160KB)
Safeguarding Student Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy (PDF 319KB)
Salary Scales (PDF 165KB)
Severance Policy (PDF 152KB)
Severance Policy - Impact Assessment (PDF 137KB)
Shared Parental Leave Policy (PDF 301KB)
Sickness Absence Policy and Procedure (PDF 498KB)
Smoking Policy (PDF 510KB)
Smoking Complaint Form (DOCX 217KB)
Smoking Policy Zone Map (PDF 2.4MB)
Staff Expenses Policy (PDF 543KB)
Staff Student Close Personal Relationships Policy (PDF 404KB)
Staff Student Close Personal Relationships Policy Guidance (PDF 402KB)
Student Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy (PDF 319KB)
Student Criminal Charges and Conviction Policy Impact Assessment (PDF 202KB)
Student Drugs Policy (PDF 122KB)
Student Mental Health Policy (PDF 110KB)
Student Financial Obligations Policy (PDF 225KB)
Student Pregnancy and Parenting or Caring Responsibility Policy (PDF 468KB)
Student Parent or Carer Support and Adjustments Plan (DOCX 24KB)
Student Pregnancy Support and Adjustments Plan (DOCX 28KB)
Student's Union Code of Practice
Substance Misuse Policy and Procedure (PDF 493KB)
Sustainability Policy (PDF 200KB)
Sustainable Printing Guidance (PDF 147KB)
Sustainable Travel Policy and Hierarchy (PDF 166KB)
Sustainability Travel Policy and Hierarchy Impact Assessment (PDF 110KB)
Terms and Conditions – Consultancy (PDF 97KB)
Timetabling Policy (PDF 342KB)
Trade Union Agreement – EIS (PDF 854KB)
Trade Union Agreement – Unison (PDF 814KB)
Trade Union Agreement – Unite (PDF 216KB)
Trade Union Consultation Agreement - UCU (PDF 328KB)
Trade Union Facility Time Data (PDF 66KB)
Trans Equality Policy - currently being redeveloped
Treasury Management Policy (PDF 2.5MB)
Tutoring Personal Tutoring Policy (PDF 164KB)
Visiting Professor Appointments Policy (PDF 155KB)
Whistleblowing (Disclosures in the Public Interest)

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety:
Information on Health & Safety topics, including policies, procedures and guidance on how to manage specific hazards and how to report in the event of an accident/incident.
Robert Gordon University is committed to the effective management of health and safety.
UK universities have a statutory duty in terms of the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015 to have ‘due regard’ to the need to prevent people being drawn into terrorism.
Robert Gordon University has a legal duty to record and report certain accidents, incidents, and occupational diseases on premises under its control.
Find out what to report and how to report it.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking:
Our main Garthdee campus in Aberdeen is well served by public transport, which makes it very easy for you to find us.
The RGU campus and business locations are easily accessible by foot, bike, bus, train and car.
Our campus has very strict rules in place regarding parking.
Whether using your own vehicle, bike, motorbike, hire vehicle or one of the university fleet vehicles, are subject to the University Parking Regulations, Permits and guidance on Driving on Campus.
Getting to and from the city centre is a breeze with a bus stop right on campus.
Robert Gordon University encourages cycling as a healthy, cheap and environmentally friendly way to get to University.
Garthdee Campus is best accessed from the station by bus from Aberdeen Rail Station.
Aberdeen Airport is 7 miles north of the City Centre.
RGU has invested £120 million in the development of its campus, an ongoing project, and in new facilities and resources.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/opening-hours:
All campus buildings will be closed for the bank holiday on Monday 14 July 2025, with the exception of RGU SPORT and The Treehouse Nursery which will open as normal.
For other bank holidays and academic dates, please refer to:
The Gray's Art Shop will be closed 20 August - 7 September 2025 due to staff shortages.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs:
Join us at our beautiful riverside campus and experience an inclusive, innovative environment, where everyone contributes to delivering impactful education and research.
Looking for inspiration?
Browse our current vacancies, find out more, set up job alerts and apply.
We want to see your true self reflected when you apply to ensure we interview the right people and that you find a job that’s right for you.
We want everyone to find their own work/life balance and offer a 35 hour week, hybrid working for most roles, flexible working and 46 days annual leave.
RGU SPORT is our outstanding sporting facility on campus.
As well as a swimming pool, climbing wall and three gyms, there is a range of classes on offer for all fitness levels.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/privacy-and-cookie-statement:
Robert Gordon University is committed to protecting your privacy and have adopted the privacy policy to let you know how your personal information and cookies are processed and used.
We will treat all information given by you in confidence and as required by General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
We do not collect personal information from visitors to this site unless the visitor explicitly intentionally provides it.
We will not disclose any such information to third parties including other constituents of Robert Gordon University unless:
The information you have given will be stored on our computer systems and used in the following ways:
Accepting this statement acknowledges Robert Gordon University will not be responsible for damages you or any others may suffer as a result of the loss of confidentiality of any such information.
As a user of the Robert Gordon University website you consent to the collection and use of information as outlined in this statement.
If this statement is changed we will post these changes on the Robert Gordon website at this location.
The use of your personal information is covered by GDPR.
You can, under this legislation, request a copy of the information we hold about you.
If any information we hold about you is incorrect please let us know and we will correct it.
By writing to the Robert Gordon University Data Protection Officer:
Data Protection Officer Robert Gordon University Garthdee Annexe Garthdee Road AB10 7QB
Email: dp@rgu.ac.uk
Even the best policy cannot protect your online privacy and security in all circumstances.
Your best protection is to understand the limits to privacy on the Internet and use common sense in all of your online activities.
Be aware that email is an inherently insecure form of communication.
Remember that in extreme cases third parties are sometimes able to intercept your unencrypted messages.
Robert Gordon University is concerned about the security of your personal information particularly when using our website.
Although we have taken all reasonable security precautions, we cannot guarantee internet security and subsequently cannot guarantee that any information you input on our site is totally secure.
In addition to our online security efforts, we have taken steps to protect your personal data offline as well.
All of your information is restricted to our offices.
Employees are granted access on a need-to-know basis and are kept up-to-date on our security and privacy practices.
Opt-out / Changing your status: At any time you can withdraw permission for the use of your personal information.
This can be done by contacting our data protection officer by sending an email to dp@rgu.ac.uk
From 25 May 2018 the Data Protection Act was replaced by General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which is a is a legal framework that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information of individuals within the European Union.
We use a technology nicknamed "Cookies" on our website.
Cookies make your visit to our website easier and improve the quality of the visitor experience.
Cookies are text files containing small amounts of information which are downloaded to your device when you visit a website.
Cookies are then sent back to the originating website on each subsequent visit, or to another website that recognises that cookie.
Cookies are useful because they allow a website to recognise a user’s device.
You can find more information about cookies at:
For a video about cookies visit:
Cookies do lots of different jobs, like letting you navigate between pages efficiently, remembering your preferences, and generally improve the user experience.
They can also help to ensure that adverts you see online are more relevant to you and your interests.
The cookies used on this website have been categorised based on the categories found in the International Chamber of Commerce UK Cookie guide.
A list of all the cookies used on this website by category is set out below.
These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas of the website, assisting navigation and adjusting the colours of the pages..
Without these cookies services you have asked for, like online payment cannot be provided.
These cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often, and if they get error messages from web pages.
These cookies don’t collect information that identifies a visitor.
All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous.
It is only used to improve how a website works.
Robert Gordon University uses Google Analytics.
Find out more about Google Analytics in Google's Privacy policy and download the opt out widget.
By using our website you agree that we can place these types of cookies on your device.
These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features.
For instance, a website may be able to provide you with local weather reports or traffic news by storing in a cookie the region in which you are currently located.
These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts and other parts of web pages that you can customise.
They may also be used to provide services you have asked for such as watching a video or commenting on a blog.
The information these cookies collect may be anonymised and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites.
Robert Gordon University does not currently use this type of cookie on this website, however, be aware that third party staff blogs and websites linked from this website may use these and should advise users.
These cookies are used to deliver adverts more relevant to you and your interests They are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaign.
They remember that you have visited a website and this information is shared with other organisations such as advertisers.
Quite often targeting or advertising cookies will be linked to site functionality provided by the other organisation.
We sometimes use tracking pixels on our website that assist with advertising and remarketing purposes as well as acting to improve the user experience on our website.
Third party services used on the Robert Gordon University website such as videos, maps and social media may use cookies.
You can remove these cookies by altering the settings on your browser which is unlikely to change your experience on our website.
Update Cookie Preferences
You may opt out of cookies by going to your browser settings.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 requires public authorities to adopt a publication scheme which is a means of making information available pro-actively.
Robert Gordon University has regard to the public interest in the information it holds and is mindful of the values of openness and honesty.
Hence, it has adopted the Model Publication Scheme 2018 set forth by the Scottish Information Commissioner for the Scottish Higher Education sector.
The university's publication scheme consists of different classes or categories of information, which we publish and are available free of charge, except in particular cases where a small fee may be required.
Before making a Freedom of Information request to the university, you may wish to consult the publication scheme first as the information may be published through the publication scheme.
View the latest University Publication Scheme and its wholly owned subsidiaries:
Model Publication Scheme - Univation Ltd (PDF 166KB) Model Publication Scheme - Aberdeen Business School (dormant) (PDF 69KB) Model Publication Scheme - Aberdeen Management Centre Ltd (dormant) (PDF 91KB) Model Publication Scheme - RGU The Energy University Ltd (dormant) (PDF 80KB) University Model Publication Scheme (PDF 96KB)
Information requests must be in writing or in some other recordable form, with the name and address of the applicant and a description of the information required and the university has 20 working days in which to respond.
They can be made via post, phone, email , Facebook or Twitter and we will aim to fulfil them as long as the information requested does not fall into one of the exempt categories.
The University receives around 300 requests per year for information under the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002.
Most information listed in the University Publication Scheme is available on our website.
However, if the information you request is not available on the website but is listed in our publication scheme, we will send it to you by email or whichever format you chose wherever practicable.
A fee may be charged in accordance with the Fees Regulations and will not process the request until the fee is paid.
It can refuse to process a request if it estimates that the cost to the University will be above the upper limit specified in the Fees Regulation.
Please note that under Section 8 of the Act a valid request must state the name of the applicant, and an address for correspondence.
It must also describe the information requested.
View the individual categories of information:
01 General Information Publication Scheme (PDF 85KB) 02 Access to Information Publication Scheme (PDF 52KB) 03 Governance Publication Scheme (PDF 140KB) 04 Financial Resources Publication Scheme (PDF 87KB) 05 Corporate Planning Publication Scheme (PDF 55KB) 06 Procurement Publication Scheme (PDF 88KB) 07 Management of Research Publication Scheme (PDF 86KB) 08 Commercialisation and Knowledge Transfer Publication Scheme (PDF 89KB) 09 Human Resources Publication Scheme (PDF 119KB) 10 Physical Resources Publication Scheme (PDF 96KB) 11 Health and Safety Publication Scheme (PDF 111KB) 12 Equality and Diversity Publication Scheme (PDF 85KB) 13 Support for Disabled People Publication Scheme (PDF 112KB) 14 Student Administration Support Publication Scheme (PDF 126KB) 15 Teaching Quality Publication Scheme (PDF 128KB) 16 Information Services Publication Scheme (PDF 93KB) 17 External and Community Relations Publication Scheme (PDF 111KB) 18 Government and Regulator Relations Publication Scheme (PDF 109KB)
The university's aim is to be as open as possible.
However, some information may be withheld from any of the classes of information where we consider that disclosure may seriously prejudice law enforcement, legal proceedings or our regulatory activity, or where the disclosure is otherwise prohibited by law.
We may also withhold information if its disclosure would breach the law of confidentiality, if it would seriously prejudice the commercial interests of any person or organisation, or if the information is personal information under the Data Protection Act 1998.
In some cases we may be able to supply you with an edited version of the publication, with sensitive information removed.
In these cases, we will withhold the information and indicate why the information is being withheld.
If you wish to complain about information which is being withheld from you, please read the Complaints section.
Complaints can be made by requesting a formal review if we do not deal with your information request adequately.
For example, if you feel that:
Please submit your complaints to foi@rgu.ac.uk
If we are still unable to resolve your complaint, you can complain to the Scottish Information Commissioner, who oversees the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002:
Scottish Information Commissioner, Kinburn Castle, Doubledykes Road, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9DS
Email: enquiries@itspublicknowledge.info Tel: +44 (0)1334 464610 Fax: +44 (0)1334 464611
Information obtained from the university's publication scheme can be copied or reproduced without formal permission so long as it is copied or reproduced accurately, is not used in a misleading context, and provided that the source of the material is identified and the copyright status acknowledged.
Robert Gordon University will assert its Intellectual Property Rights & Copyright where it is appropriate.
The publication scheme includes links to third party organisations that hold information about the university.
You are recommended to obtain the consent of the third party before the information obtained via the publication scheme is copied.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/whistleblowing:
Disclosures in the Public Interest (Whistleblowing) Policy.
Robert Gordon University is committed to operating in a responsible, honest and transparent manner.
This policy and procedure provides a process through which employees, students and members of the public can report concerns of malpractice as a matter of public interest, without fear of reprisal.
Key points of the policy and procedure are:
Disclosures in the Public Interest Whistleblowing Policy
Staff members to whom a disclosure can be made:
The Policy and Procedure on Disclosures in the Public Interest (Whistleblowing) is reviewed on an annual basis as a standing item on the Board of Governor’s Audit and Risk Committee agenda.
The Audit and Risk Committee receive an annual report on Ethics, Whistleblowing, Fraud and Gifts and Hospitality which details any specific instances of breaches of the university’s policies and provides a record of the enquiries and investigations undertaken by the university in each of these areas.
The findings and outcomes of any investigations are also monitored and reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
In May 2018 the university received an anonymous Public Interest Disclosure regarding an alleged conflict of interest in the appointment the Vice Principal for Commercial and Regional Innovation.
A panel of the university’s Board of Governors, which comprised the Convener of the Audit Committee, two independent governors and an external member, carried out a full and thorough investigation into this matter.
The investigation panel followed the university’s policy and procedures on disclosures in the public interest and produced a report on its findings.
There then followed a chain of events which culminated in the resignation of the University’s Principal and the appointment of his successor.
Throughout these events there was much comment both in the media and from various stakeholders amidst concerns about the governance aspects of decisions being taken.
The University and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) separately concluded that a “Lessons Learned” review was necessary; agreed that a joint exercise would be the most effective way to undertake this; and agreed that the exercise should identify:
Public Interest Disclosure Investigation - July 2018

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/complaints:
Sometimes things go wrong.
If you think this has happened or you are dissatisfied with any of our services, we want to hear from you.
We are committed to providing the highest level of service for anyone who may have contact with the University and to maintain good relations with the local community.
All complaints are taken in earnest and there are procedures in place to deal with them.
We aim to create an environment where concerns can be raised without fear of repercussions, ensuring privacy and confidentiality are upheld.
You should tell us about your concerns as soon as you can.
You can complain about our service to any member of staff who can support with resolving your complaint at the frontline and provide you with an outcome within five days.
If you are not satisfied with the outcome, or the matter you are complaining about is more complex, then we will investigate the complaint as a Stage 2 Investigation , aiming to provide you with an outcome within twenty working days.
We are committed to making our service easy to use, if we can provide any reasonable adjustments to help you access and use our services, please let us know.
If you need any of our information in another language or format, such as large font or Braille, email complaints@rgu.ac.uk , telephone 01224 262195, or ask any member of staff.
What constitutes a complaint, who can complain and when a complaint can be submitted.
How to raise a complaint and what to expect throughout the process.
We view complaints as feedback to help us to change and improve the way we do things as a university.
Contact the RGU complaints team - complaints@rgu.ac.uk | 01224 262195

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/modern-slavery-statement:
The Robert Gordon University is committed to establishing practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the University's Modern Slavery statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
This statement is approved annually by the Board of Governors.
Modern Slavery Statement 2023-24

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/accessibility:
Robert Gordon University is committed to a policy of equal opportunities for all.
This accessibility statement applies to rgu.ac.uk.
This website is run by Robert Gordon University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website and welcome your feedback.
Contact: webteam@rgu.ac.uk if you:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within 10 working days.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
BSL users can contact staff at the university via contactSCOTLAND-BSL, the online British Sign Language interpreting video relay service.
Find out more on the contactSCOTLAND website .
Our offices have audio induction loops, or if you contact us before your visit we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter.
The Service has an Enabling Technology Adviser, who provides training in the use of enabling technologies such as digital recording equipment and TextHELP Read and Write Gold software.
If you require specific software to support your studies, please contact the Enabling Technology Adviser on +44 (0) 1224 262103 or by logging a question on AskRGU
Robert Gordon University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard.
There are some issues that we either need to fix, cannot fix, or do not need to fix right now.
The issues are:
If you find something that does not work, contact us .
The content listed is non-accessible for the following reasons:
Many of these have more complex design requirements which come with a cost.
Along with this we are developing knowledge and understanding of producing accessible documents and we cannot yet assure all documents will be accessible.
We will either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages as pages and documents are reviewed.
We also plan to raise awareness of document accessibility issues across the university with all staff and regularly review new documents that are being uploaded.
At this time we are not making any claims of disproportionate burden
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards, subject to resource burden to monitor.
The site also contains a range of third-party content and functionality.
This may link you to a related service, or partner we work with.
We are reviewing all such functionality and intend to work with suppliers to make that fully accessible or look for alternative solutions.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
If you cannot read the map, we also have our address listed and full contact information if you need help finding us.
We have also provided public transport and satnav information for visitors so that they don’t need to use a map.
We test the entire website regularly using an automated third party tool which allows us to identify non-compliant content and provides details on how to fix it.
Wherever possible, we fix the issues encountered within 2 months of running the test.
We check all new documents using built-in accessibility checker tools.
We recognise that automated checking will not identify all accessibility issues and are working to develop our resources, processes and understanding relating to digital accessibility across our community.
Moodle is the Robert Gordon University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) which hosts learning resources and activities for our courses.
Moodle is designed to be accessible and is continuously looking at improving compliance with WCAG 2.1 Level AA.
The University is committed to providing equal and inclusive learning resources and experiences for all students to ensure that everyone can fully participate in their course.
Academic staff and other content authors are able to upload learning resources of their choosing and are encouraged to ensure their learning materials are accessible.
Various technologies are also available to support students in their studies such as screen reading and captioning software.
For further information, please contact our Inclusion Centre .
This statement was prepared on 18 September 2020.
It was last updated on 9 May 2023.
This statement applies to the pages found under www.rgu.ac.uk Our other platforms publish statements applicable to those platforms and pages.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7448-latest-league-table-gives-rgu-more-reasons-to-celebrate:
Friday 20 September 2024
The guide places RGU in the top three in Scotland for teaching quality and second in Scotland for the new people and planet ranking, which is assessed against 14 ethical and environmental criteria that measure an institution’s sustainability.
This rating reflects positively on the University’s strategic commitment to playing an active role towards a more sustainable future and achieving its net zero ambitions.
RGU fared well for many individual subjects too, appearing in the overall top three in the UK and second in Scotland for Physiotherapy and in the UK’s top 10 for Radiography and Building.
In another strong showing, Physiotherapy was number one in the UK and Scotland across each measure of teaching quality, student experience and graduate prospects.
Radiography was number one both in the UK and Scotland for graduate prospects while subjects from across schools featured top in the country for individual measures.
Elsewhere in the rankings, RGU has also climbed nine places on the UK graduate prospects measure which was reflected in the Scotland rankings in which the University increased by one place.
Overall, the University has risen one place in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide to its highest position for a decade.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Robert Gordon University, said: “These latest rankings highlight the University’s commitment to its strategy and our collective mission to transform people and communities.
Remaining in the top three for teaching quality in Scotland remains a significant achievement and one to be particularly proud of.
“Our efforts in sustainability are not only genuine but also impactful, emphasised by this rating of second in Scotland for the new people and planet measure.
We are successfully embedding sustainability throughout our curriculum and the needs of the planet are front and centre of much of our research and innovation.
“Many of our subjects have again been ranked among the top in the UK across many measures, including overall.
Combined with our teaching quality placing, this is just reward for many of our staff who continue to work extremely hard to provide such an excellent experience for our students.”
The following subjects rated top in Scotland for teaching quality: Architecture; Art and Design; Building; Communication and Media Studies; Computer Science; Hospitality, Leisure, Recreation and Tourism; Physiotherapy; and Social Studies.
For student experience, the following subjects placed top in Scotland: Accounting and Finance; Architecture; Art and Design; Building; Communication and Media Studies; Computer Science; Physiotherapy; and Social Studies.
Lastly for graduate prospects, Archaeology and Forensic Science; Building; and Subjects allied to medicine all featured top in Scotland while Physiotherapy and Social Studies were top in Scotland and the UK.
This latest league table publication also follows RGU’s positive showings in the The Guardian University Guide 2025 which placed RGU first in Scotland and in the UK’s top 10 for assessment satisfaction.
Meanwhile, The Daily Mail University Guide placed RGU second in Scotland and in the UK’s top 10 for careers on track in a measure based on the views of graduates and whether they felt that their early-stage careers were on track and in line with their expectations.
At the recent Alliance Awards 2024 , which celebrate excellence in higher education and recognises achievements across all parts of universities who are members of University Alliance, RGU was recognised for its student support, entrepreneurialism, and for its effort in sustainability through the Lifetime Achievement Award shortlisting of Bill Sommerville, Director of Estates & Property Services.
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 provides the definitive rankings for UK universities and the most comprehensive overview of higher education in Britain, making use of the latest data.
On the guides launch on Friday, Helen Davies, editor of The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide, said: “The higher education sector is facing unprecedented challenges from debates on free speech to financial stability, but it is important to remember the force for good that going to university can be.”
Compiled by The Times and The Sunday Times, view in full:
Each course has specific requirements for you to reach before they can apply, these are usually a mix of qualifications, subjects, or exam grades for your own circumstances and background.
Find out what everything means.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7141-subject-success-for-rgu-in-latest-complete-university-guide:
Wednesday 15 May 2024
Physiotherapy at RGU is ranked inside the UK’s top five subjects, retaining its number one placing in Scotland.
It also came out top for student satisfaction and the graduate prospect measures in both the UK and Scotland.
Forensic Science is inside the UK’s top five and rated second in Scotland.
Food Science and Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy not only secured places in the UK’s top 10 but were also second and third in Scotland respectively.
Further positive achievements came in other subjects with Social Work, Business and Management Studies , Building, Art and Design and Architecture all achieving first in Scotland for student satisfaction.
Medical Technology and Bioengineering , Food Science, Biomedical Sciences were number one in both the UK and Scotland for the graduate prospect outcomes measure.
Professor Lynn Kilbride, Vice Principal for Academic Development & Student Experience, said: “The hard work and commitment of our academic teams across RGU is proving to have real and tangible results that are reflected in many of the ranking outcomes in a range of different subject areas.
“Achieving positive recognition is an important aspect in our aim to transform people and communities by offering high-quality education that provides students with the skills to thrive throughout their careers.
This is something we will continue to deliver as we move forward.”
Electrical and Electronic Engineering was rated as top in the UK and Scotland in the prospects outcomes on track measure with Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Medical Technology and Bioengineering and Building being placed as first in Scotland on the same measure.
The Graduate Prospects outcomes measure used in the Complete University Guide relates to the proportion of graduates who take up employment or further study divided by the total number of graduates with a known destination.
The Graduate Prospects on track measure is defined as the proportion of graduates who agree that their activity is on track with their future plans.
The Complete University Guide is an independent university league table that ranks 130 UK-based institutions across ten different measures.
Released every year, the Complete University Guide aims to support prospective students in making informed decisions about their future.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7432-rgu-among-the-best-in-uk-for-graduate-career-prospects:
Sunday 08 September 2024
The Guardian University Guide 2025 has placed RGU first in Scotland and in the UK’s top 10 for assessment satisfaction while the University has improved its position on the career prospects measure as well being placed inside the UK’s top 20 for satisfaction in teaching.
There was success in individual courses too with Physiotherapy marked overall first in the UK.
Pharmacy and Pharmacology was also ranked first in Scotland and in the UK’s top 10 with Children’s Nursing, Fine Art, Construction, Surveying and planning second in Scotland.
In relation to employability and career prospects, RGU ranked top in Scotland and the UK in Midwifery; Physiotherapy; Electrical and Electronic Engineering; and Construction, Surveying and Planning.
Other subject specific highlights include Physiotherapy being graded first in the UK for assessment satisfaction with Children’s Nursing; General Nursing; Pharmacy and Pharmacology; Computer Science; Business and Management; Media and Film Studies; Fine Art; Product Design; and Construction, Surveying and Planning rated first in Scotland.
Physiotherapy was rated second in the UK for teaching satisfaction with Pharmacy and Pharmacology; Forensic Science; Computer Science; Hospitality; Fine Art; Product Design; and Construction, Surveying and Planning number one in Scotland for the same measure.
Overall, RGU has risen three places in the Guardian University Guide.
Renowned for its impressive graduate employability prospects, the Daily Mail University Guide 2025 has also placed RGU second in Scotland and eighth in the UK for careers on track in a measure based on the views of graduates and whether they felt that their early-stage careers were on track and in line with their expectations.
RGU also featured third in Scotland for both teaching excellence and student support, as well as fourth in Scotland for high-skilled jobs.
There was again considerable success at subject level too with Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy; Media Studies; Nursing and Midwifery; Art; and Architecture, building and planning; all ranking first in Scotland and in the UK's top 10.
Pharmacy was also in the UK top ten while Electrical and Electronic Engineering; Social Work; Tourism, Transport and Travel; Nutrition and Dietetics; Physiotherapy; and Design Studies ranked in the top 20 of the UK.
In all, 60% of subjects taught by RGU were placed in the top 20 in the UK.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Robert Gordon University said: “RGU is rightly known for its graduate employability and these latest rankings illustrate why.
We are in the top 10 in the UK for graduates being on track upon leaving the University which is both outstanding and testament to our strategy to create global citizens through our relevant and engaging curriculum.
“The subject specific rankings again show the varied expertise that we possess at the University, of which I am very proud of.
This marks a positive start to the 2024/25 academic year as we prepare to welcome new and returning students to RGU from across the world.”
In the guide, Alastair McCall, editor of the Daily Mail University Guide, said: “If you want a University with eminently attainable Higher grade requirements that offers students outstanding career prospects, look no further.
“Around four in five graduates are in high-skilled jobs within 15 months of leaving, having taken courses that have optional or compulsory placement years that can introduce students to their future employers.”
Of the 129 universities featured in the league table, RGU is joint 23rd for teaching excellence and 24th for high skilled jobs in the UK.
Furthermore, the University moved up five places overall.
The Daily Mail University Guide first published last year and is made up of 12 performance indicators.
These cover student satisfaction with teaching quality, support and their wider university experience, graduate jobs outcomes and salaries, research quality and income, degree outcomes, student progression, entry standards and a measure of universities’ commitment to social mobility, measured through the proportion of first-generation students registered.
This builds on RGU’s success in the Complete University Guide 2025 with four different areas ranked inside the UK’s top 10 and positive placings in student satisfaction and both graduate prospect measures across a wide range of subjects.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2023/6361-new-rankings-score-rgu-among-top-of-the-class:
Friday 15 September 2023
Released today (September 15), the guide places RGU as second in Scotland and in the top 10 in the UK for teaching quality as well as third in Scotland and in the UK’s top 20 for student experience.
Overall subject ranking has seen 12 in the top three in Scotland, including eight of them first, for teaching quality while 12 also feature in the UK’s top 20.
Both Building and Physiotherapy was rated top in the UK for this measure.
For student experience, 11 subjects feature in the top three in Scotland with nine of them at top spot and a further 12 also appearing in the top 20 in the UK - Physiotherapy again placing top in the UK.
Latterly, the guide also scores six RGU subjects first in Scotland for graduate prospects as well as six in the top 20 of the UK for the same measure.
Physiotherapy was joined by Biological Science as top in the UK for graduate prospects.
Overall, the University has risen three places in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide to its highest position since 2014/15.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of RGU, said: “We are delighted with these results, particularly in the important areas of teaching, student experience, and individual subject rankings, where we are among the best in Scotland and the entire UK.
“The achievements are a credit to the hard work of our committed staff body, and we will continue to develop a culture where everyone can thrive.”
Last week RGU also recorded impressive results in the Guardian University Guide 2024 , placing third in Scotland and in the UK’s top 10 for satisfaction in teaching as well as second in Scotland for assessment satisfaction.
Other good news included seven subjects featuring in the overall top 3 in Scotland as well as Physiotherapy overall first in the UK.
There was a further seven subjects that finished top in Scotland for career prospects, from Biomedical Sciences to Social Work and Construction, Surveying and Planning.
In what is university league table season, last month’s National Student Survey (NSS) placings scored RGU at 82.4% overall satisfaction which was followed up by the Times Higher Education (THE) which placed RGU second in Scotland and in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction.
The Daily Mail University Guide ranked RGU second in Scotland and in the top 10 in the UK for teaching excellence as well as second and third in Scotland for student support and student experience respectively.
In the Complete University Guide 2024 earlier in the year, RGU was marked as Scotland’s highest climbers and again in the UK’s top 10 for student satisfaction.
Many courses were also again graded top in Scotland for both graduate prospect measures and student satisfaction.
Top subjects in Scotland at RGU for teaching quality: Accounting and Finance; Archaeology and Forensic Science; Architecture; Art and Design; Building; Hospitality; Leisure; Recreation and Tourism; Physiotherapy; Social Work.
Top subjects in Scotland at RGU for student experience: Accounting and Finance;  Archaeology and Forensic Science; Architecture; Art and Design; Building; Hospitality; Leisure; Recreation and Tourism; Physiotherapy; Social Work; Sociology.
Top subjects in Scotland at RGU for graduate prospects: Archaeology and Forensic Science; Biological Sciences; Building; Pharmacology and Pharmacy; Physiotherapy; Subjects Allied to Medicine.
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has once again been recognised for its excellence in teaching and student satisfaction in newly released higher education rankings.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/facts-figures:
We are committed to providing students with an excellent experience, enabling them to raise their aspirations and thrive in their professional careers, continuously growing the quality and impact of our research and contributing towards Scotland’s economic and social regeneration.
At the core of our University is our mission to transform people and communities through the delivery of teaching excellence, the impact of our research, our focus on enterprise and to contribute to economic, social and cultural development, and environmental sustainability.
Our community of staff, students and alumni are the driving force behind our mission.
Their commitment, diversity and vibrancy broadens our creativity, innovation and curiosity.
Through our campus operations, teaching, research, partnerships and services, we are focused on driving activity that creates a sustainable future both for our own University community and wider society.
We’ve invested £120 million into the development of state-of-the-art buildings, facilities and workspaces to inspire innovation and help prepare our students in their future career.
From undergraduate to postgraduate and short courses, we offer over 300 subjects developed in close collaboration with industry to ensure they are demand driven and tailored to current and future skills needs.
Our students are at the heart of everything we do, and their time at RGU stretches far beyond the lecture theatres and library.
We are committed to ensuring that when our students graduate, they’re ready for whatever path they take into the future.
We work with communities across Scotland to inspire, support and enable people from all backgrounds to pursue their ambitions through degree education and professional employment.
Through our research strategy we are focused on growing our interdisciplinary research expertise and working collaboratively with public, private and third sector organisations to solves some of society’s most pressing issues.
Fostering an inclusive research culture is integral to our research strategy and enables us to grow our interdisciplinary research expertise.
We pursue partnerships and deliver knowledge exchange across all sectors and support organisations, to address business and service challenges through access to our expertise and facilities.
We work collaboratively to enhance employability, harness skills, and drive forward innovation to support a transition to a prosperous and greener economy.
We promote entrepreneurship and innovation in recognition of the important role that entrepreneurial business growth plays in economic development and diversification.
We are committed to enhancing Scotland’s prosperity and wellbeing, and work in partnership with community groups and third sector organisations to improve the quality of life for all.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2023/6297-rgu-among-uk-s-top-universities-for-student-satisfaction:
Tuesday 15 August 2023
Times Higher Education (THE) has looked at data from the National Student Survey (NSS) to the give the University an overall positivity rate of 83.8% across all questions meaning it has been placed 9th in the UK on this measure for institutions who received at least 1,000 survey responses.
Students in Scotland, England, Wales and Northern Ireland were asked a total of 26 questions as part of the survey which is administered by the independent market research agency Ipsos MORI.
Professor Steve Olivier, RGU’s Principal and Vice-Chancellor, said: “I think this detailed analysis shows RGU in a fantastic light and should be celebrated by everyone at the University.
“This is another example of how we continue to make a positive impact on the lives of our students and this will enhance our student experience.
“These results also really show that our dedicated staff and support services are making a real impact on students coming to our beautiful riverside campus to learn and take the next steps in their lives.”
RGU has already been marking a strong performance in the NSS having been placed 4th in Scotland * for student satisfaction with a positivity measure of 82.4%.
The University came second in Scotland on six of the questions asked by the survey.
These include ‘How often do staff make the subject engaging?’ and 'How well have teaching staff support your learning?’ RGU ranks in the top four institutions in Scotland in 19 of the 27 questions asked in Scotland.
The 2023 NSS was open to students from January to April this year with more than 500 higher education institutions taking part and almost 340,000 students across the UK responding to the survey.
*Excludes colleges and small, specialist, and private providers.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2023/6284-rgu-among-top-universities-for-student-satisfaction:
Thursday 10 August 2023
The University is celebrating a strong performance of 82.4% for overall satisfaction and secured top rankings across the themes of the survey, achieving second place in Scotland for Learning Opportunities and Assessment and Feedback with positivity scores of 85.4% and 83.1% respectively.
RGU is also within the top four universities in Scotland for the themes of Learning Resources, Teaching on my Course and Academic Support, demonstrating that students value many aspects of their student experience with performance in the survey significantly above the Scottish average.
Professor Lynn Kilbride, RGU’s Vice Principal Academic Development & Student Experience, said: “We are delighted with the results of the National Student Survey 2023 and they reflect how the excellent student staff partnership at RGU continues to meet the diverse needs of our students.
“This is also a great set of results for our hardworking staff who are consistently providing our students with an excellent experience that allows them to thrive beyond graduation.
“These results also provide us with the opportunity to continue to enhance our educational provision.”
Following a review of the NSS for the 2023 survey, the UK funding bodies introduced an updated questionnaire and a new positivity score which replaced the previous percentage agree ranking.
The updated NSS asks students in the UK questions about a range of factors related to their academic experience, including the teaching on their course, assessment, and feedback, and how well courses are organised.
It is an independent survey that gathers final year undergraduate students' opinions on the quality of their course and is managed by the Office for Students on behalf of UK funding and regulatory bodies and administered by the independent market research agency Ipsos MORI.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study:
We offer short courses and modules across a range of subject areas designed to help you boost your career prospects, develop your skillset or explore one of your interests.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/who-we-are:
RGU delivers a high quality vocational education and relevant curriculum which provides learners with the skills they require to thrive throughout their careers.
As a result, the university has a reputation for producing graduates that are highly sought after by employers.
Over the last decade RGU has consistently had one of the best records of any UK university for graduate level employment.
RGU has a heritage going back 250 years and was awarded university status in 1992.
Throughout its development, the university has remained committed to creating equal opportunities to access a relevant and valuable education.
It is made up of seven schools and offers over 300 courses ranging from engineering, architecture, computing, and life sciences to the creative industries, health and social care, and business.
It has a student population of over 18,000, who study on-campus and online; notably, it is one of the largest providers of online learning in the UK.
Courses are developed through close collaboration with employers, professions and industry to address skills regional and national needs, and this ensures that curriculum is demand-led.
The university is making significant investment to grow its globally impactful research in key areas including sustainable transport; built environment visualisation; industrial biotechnology; smart data and artificial intelligence; and pharmacy practice.
Through prioritising strategic research partnerships, the university fosters excellence in knowledge exchange and interdisciplinary collaboration.
RGU is known for its close engagement with industry and has a significant track record in workforce development both nationally and internationally.
It collaborates with organisations, governments, trade bodies, industry associations and educational institutions to stimulate innovation and drive economic development.
Robert Gordon University's role in the community can be traced back nearly three and a half centuries to the birth of Aberdeen merchant and benefactor Robert Gordon in 1668.
Robert Gordon University has eight schools at our Garthdee campus in Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/our-strategy:
The University’s refreshed strategy has been developed to reflect significant changes in the internal and external environment while recognising and building on the strengths that make RGU distinctive.
All higher education institutions in Scotland are required to enter in to an Outcome Agreement each year with the Scottish Funding Council (SFC).
The purpose of the Outcome Agreement is to demonstrate how each institution will contribute towards the SFC’s achievement of its objectives.
​The University details the high level actions and targets associated with these actions in its Business Plan which is for a rolling three year period, and approved annually by the Board of Governors.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance:
The framework for implementing and maintaining the academic provision and standards of Robert Gordon University.
The provisions of the Statutory Instrument (The Robert Gordon University (Scotland) Order of Council 2019) are embodied in our Organisational Regulations.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/our-leadership:
The Board of Governors is responsible for the overall strategic direction and governance of the University.
The Executive form the university’s senior leadership team.
They support the Principal in the development and delivery of the university’s strategic plans, objectives and priorities.
Management Structure Diagrams for the University.
The Chancellor is appointed as the titular head of the University and confers degrees, diplomas and other awards.
The current chancellor is Evelyn Glennie.
The Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Robert Gordon University is the Chief Executive Officer, appointed by the Board of Governors and accountable to it for the management and organisation of the University.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/committees:
Download the Committee Structure diagram.
RGU Committee Structure Diagram February 2025
Download a calendar of all the University's committee meetings.
Calendar of Committee Meetings 2024-25
Calendar of Committee Meetings 2025-26
The Board of Governors appoints and regulates the Standing Committees which carry out the statutory obligations of the University.
Standing Committees will, from time to time, establish Sub-Committees in order to assist
them in undertaking their remits.
Academic Council has a number of Standing Committees which report directly to it.
Sub-Committees report indirectly to Academic Council via the Standing Committees.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/our-history:
Robert Gordon's mercantile adventures founded a strong and remarkably modern belief that his investment in the education of his townsfolk would equip them with the skills and knowledge to strengthen their success in Europe and further afield.
Today, more than 260 years after his death, the University which bears his name remains true to his spirit and enterprise.
1668: The birth of Robert Gordon, future founder of Robert Gordon's Hospital.
1684: He is elected a Burgess of Guild, enabling him to trade as a merchant in the city.
1689: Robert Gordon graduates from Marischal College and establishes business as a merchant trader in Danzig in the Baltic.
1729: He founds Robert Gordon's Hospital, to educate the young sons and grandsons of Burgesses of the Guild who were too poor to maintain them at school.
1731: Robert Gordon dies.
1750: Robert Gordon's Hospital opens to provide residential education for the sons and grandsons of Burgesses of Guild or Trade Burgesses of Aberdeen.
1824: Aberdeen Mechanics' Institution opens - the beginnings of an adult education programme.
1881: Robert Gordon's Hospital is transformed into Robert Gordon's College with a secondary day school and separate adult education college.
1884: Educational work of the Aberdeen Mechanics' Institute is transferred to the College.
1885 : Gray's School of Science and Art opens on Schoolhill, funded by John Gray, head of the firm of William McKinnon, Engineers and Iron Founders.
1898: Aberdeen Pharmaceutical Society transfers training for apprentice apothecaries, chemists and druggists to the College.
1903: Scottish Education Department designates the vocational courses work of the College as a ‘Central Institution for Specialised Instruction'.
1910: Robert Gordon's Technical College is formed.
1955: Local architect and businessman Tom Scott Sutherland gifts the Garthdee Estate.
1957: Scott Sutherland School of Architecture opens.
1965: College becomes known as Robert Gordon's Institute of Technology (RGIT) to reflect higher levels of teaching and its new role as a centre of excellence in the non-university higher education sector.
1967: Gray's School of Art moves to Garthdee campus.
1991: Name changes to The Robert Gordon Institute of Technology - one of the largest central institutions in Scotland.
1992: Awarded university status and first chancellor, Sir Bob Reid, is installed.
1998: At the end of the 20th Century the Aberdeen Business School moved to the Garthdee campus.
2002: The Faculty of Health & Social Care building was opened in the summer of 2002 and is home to Applied Social Studies, the School of Health Sciences and the School of Nursing & Midwifery.
Present day: Campus development continues in parallel with growth in RGU's reputation.
All teaching is delivered at our Garthdee Campus in state-of-the-art facilities on the banks of the River Dee.
Both phases of building development were completed by 2015, providing a fantastic learning environment for our students in a beautiful riverside setting.
Check out the campus fly through on YouTube.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/financial-information-statements:
The Financial Services Department is responsible for ensuring the ongoing financial sustainability of the University.
The aim of the Procurement Department is to help University staff select the best suppliers and achieve best overall value for money.
The Financial Services department processes all the University’s financial transactions, provides management and statutory financial reporting to all relevant stakeholders and provides financial advice to colleagues throughout the University and manages financial risk.
Financial Services Robert Gordon University Central Services Building Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7FY
Jeremy Lindley Director of Finance This email address is being protected from spambots.
You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
Shelly McInnes Acting Director of Finance This email address is being protected from spambots.
Director of Finance
This email address is being protected from spambots.
Acting Director of Finance
Read through existing questions or log a new question:
Email any questions about student finance:
Remuneration of both the external and internal auditors is published in the Financial Statements.
Internal audit services are provided by:
KPMG LLP 20 Castle Terrace Saltire Court Edinburgh EH1 2EG
External audit services are provided by:
Henderson Loggie Ground Floor 11-15 Thistle Street Edinburgh EH2 1DF
The university owns 100% of the issued share capital of 100,000 £1 ordinary shares of Univation Limited a company registered in Scotland, whose principal activities are the provision of short courses, training and consultancy services in engineering, management, health and design.
Currently the Chair of the Governing body is the only person who receives a remuneration from the University.
Please note, some of these documents may not meet accessibility requirements at the time of publishing.
We are currently working towards resolving document accessibility issues within the 2023-24 statement.
Documents are provided for the last 5 years or the last 5 versions, if you need to view older copies of these documents, please request them by email.
RGU Financial Regulations
Details of expenses reimbursed to senior management.
The Procurement Department helps University staff select the best suppliers and achieve best overall value for money.
Find out more about selling to the University, our contracts register, tender opportunities, our procurement strategy and policies, and our annual reports:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/art-heritage-collections:
Showcasing and stewarding artworks and artefacts which reflect the history and achievements of RGU.
The University holds a fascinating collection of historical objects and contemporary art which allow staff, students and visitors to explore our University’s past.
Art & Heritage Collections' work prioritises:
The Art & Heritage Collections are an important record of the creative output of RGU’s students, alumni and educators and of methods of teaching and study in the North East of Scotland.
Explore our artworks, objects and photographs.
We welcome visits from individuals and groups wishing to view or study items from our Art & Heritage Collections in person.
Showcasing our collections and connecting with audiences within and beyond the University.
Keep up to date with the latest news and events or learn more about the collections by following or nominating our ‘Object of the Week’.
Find out more by getting in touch with our Art & Heritage Collections team or by reading our policies.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk/email:
IT Service Desk
Set up your phone, tablet or desktop pc to connect to your RGU email account.
(RGyoU Internal Pages)

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk/myapps:
MyApps is based on Citrix technology delivering services to the desktop on campus at the same time as through the receiver application that you can download to your home to provide a consistent as possible experience.
You can access MyApps from just about any device and the service is available to all RGU staff and students.
Remote access to applications and to H:, R: and S: network drives.
Find out more about MyApps to access many applications as if you were on campus.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/learning-facilities/moodle:
Learning Facilities
Moodle is the way to access your learning materials and interact with fellow students and tutors, while you participate in your studies at RGU.
Things you can expect to find on Moodle include:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/contact-us/staff-directory:
Contact Us
Enter the first few letters of the name or surname (3 letters minimum)
Alternatively you can search by school or department
The staff information displayed on these pages uses information held in Outlook.
This in turn gets some of its data directly from the HR database.
The school and department lists are based on staff mailing lists held in Outlook.
e.g.
Staff - IT Services
To view these lists in Outlook:
The main schools and departments should all have staff mailing lists.
The breakdown of main staff mailing lists into smaller sub-lists needs to be authorised by the Dean of School or Head of Department and can only occur when the main mailing list contains different departmental groups.
Staff will automatically be added to the correct mailing list when IT Services receive details from HR to create their Outlook account.
If your name is missing from a list email ithelpdesk@rgu.ac.uk giving your full name and userid together with the mailing list that you should belong to.
In certain circumstances it is possible for staff to belong to more that one list.
Email ithelpdesk@rgu.ac.uk for changes to:
Email HR-accountqueries@rgu.ac.uk with changes to:
If staff are added or removed from the HR database then they will be added or removed from Outlook and from the online telephone directory.
This process should happen automatically once HR are advised of staff changes.
For any queries email HR-accountqueries@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/campus-community-facilities/2246-campus-community-facilities:
We have specific facilities for cyclists including bike parking, showers and changing rooms, that you may wish to use when cycling to campus.
There are food outlets in all of the main buildings on the Garthdee Campus, each offering something slightly different.
The GCLC provides free, confidential and reliable legal advice to members of the local community who cannot access legal services elsewhere.
The Gatehouse, the University's design and print consultancy, provides all design and print related functions to academic and support departments as well as student and commercial enterprise.
There are approximately 2,500 IT workstations that serve a user population of around 9,000 full time students and 1,500 members of staff.
Our team of highly experienced Chartered Physiotherapists offer a comprehensive range of therapies, evidence-based treatments and advice to help reduce symptoms and minimise disruption to your everyday life.
Open to the public, RGU students and staff
Based at the Garthdee Campus, the Treehouse Early Care Centre is purpose-built facility that provides high quality care and education for children ranging from 3 months to 5 years.
Located at the heart of the campus, you can’t miss the striking green glass Library tower.
There are four floors of books and journals, computers and study space for you to make use of.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/academic-regulations:
Academic Governance
Find Deferral Request Form, Coursework Extension Form, Academic Appeal Forms, Misconduct Appeal Form, Complaints Forms, and Suspension of Studies Request Form and Request for Feedback and Appeals Forms for applicants:
Completed forms should be submitted to Schools electronically using the School specific email addresses provided:
Regulations for Session 2024-25 will be applicable from the start of Session 2024-25.
Academic Regulation Briefing Note 2024-25 (PDF 93KB) RGU Academic Regulations - Introduction and Contents 2024-25 (PDF 136KB) Regulation A1 Courses 2024-25 (PDF 138KB) Regulation A2 Admission and Enrolment 2024-25 (PDF 189KB) Regulation A3-1 Academic Appeals 2024-25 (PDF 254KB) Regulation A3-2 Student Conduct Procedure 2024-25 (PDF 292KB) Regulation A3-3 Fitness to Practise Procedure 2024-25 (PDF 263KB) Regulation A3-4 Fitness to Study Procedure 2024-25 (PDF 248KB) Regulation A4 Assessment and Assessment Boards 2024-25 (PDF 197KB) Regulation A5 External Examiners 2024-25 (PDF 98KB) Regulation A6 Research Degrees 2024-25 (PDF 487KB) Regulation A7 Higher Doctorates 2024-25 (PDF 123KB) Regulation A8 Honorary Awards 2024-25 (PDF 124KB)
Academic Regulations from previous academic sessions or in different formats can be provided on request from academicquality@rgu.ac.uk
Academic Regulation Briefing Note 2025-26 (PDF 123KB) RGU Academic Regulations - Introduction and Contents 2025-26 (PDF 126KB) Regulation A1 Courses 2025-26 (PDF 118KB) Regulation A2 Admission and Enrolment 2025-26 (PDF 155KB) Regulation A3-1 Academic Appeal (Awards and Progression) Procedure 2025-26 (PDF 221KB) Regulation A3-2 Student Conduct Procedure 2025-26 (PDF 326KB) Regulation A3-3 Fitness to Practise Procedure 2025-26 (PDF 236KB) Regulation A3-4 Fitness to Study Procedure 2025-26 (PDF 230KB) Regulation A4 Assessment and Assessment Boards 2025-26 (PDF 188KB) Regulation A5 External Examiners 2025-26 (PDF 80KB) Regulation A6 Research Degrees 2025-26 (PDF 438KB) Regulation A7 Higher Doctorates 2025-26 (PDF 89KB) Regulation A8 Honorary Awards 2025-26 (PDF 92KB)
We've produced a video to provide students with a clear understanding of what the University means by the term ‘academic integrity’, the implications of academic misconduct and the support available to avoid misconduct.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/staff-student-networks/5055-staff-student-networks:
Equality & Diversity
Staff and student networks are an important part of Robert Gordon University.
They help to support and empower those that are often minoritised and marginalised.
Our EDI networks are self-managed, independent and impartial, offering support, guidance and social events both and off campus.
They offer a safe space for members to share experiences, connect with others, and contribute to RGU policies, practice, and procedures through our Equality and Diversity committees.
Staff networks are always open to new members and are supported by the Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion team.
Please email equality@rgu.ac.uk if you wish to set up a new staff network.
The Robert Gordon University Race Equality Network (RGU REN) brings together and empowers a network of staff who are racialised as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) and allies committed to creating an environment where every staff is treated fairly and race is celebrated.
RGU Rainbow Network aims to improve the experience of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender staff at RGU.
RGU Women’s Network is open to all women who work at RGU and aims to improve the experience of women at RGU.
In order to ensure that students who identify as Black or BIPOC (this Includes Black, African and Afro-Caribbean people, Indigenous (to the Americas, Australia and South Pacific) people and people of colour (people of Arab, Asian and Latin American heritage)).
are supported and their views represented both within the Union, and at a University level, the Black Liberation Network (BLN) was formed.
RGU'S LGBTQIA+ Network aims to provide a safe space at RGU where individuals who identify under the LGBTQ+ spectrum can come together, make friends and discuss LGBTQ+ issues.
Our society organises weekly workshops to help young people reach their career goals in the largest corporations, start their own businesses or prepare for interviews.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/innovation-rgu/inspiring-innovation/invention-disclosures:
Inspiring Innovation
As an innovative university, we support our community to be curious, experimental and explore new concepts.
New ideas can be powerful opportunities to change industries, others’ lives, and the economy, but it’s important to protect the hard work of our innovators through appropriate intellectual property safeguards.
If you come up with a new concept or invention at RGU, it may be worth completing an Invention Disclosure form.
If you have created a new invention, you can submit your Invention Disclosure form through our online form or you can request a form by contacting the Innovation team at innovation@rgu.ac.uk .
An Invention Disclosure in the entry point for seeking Intellectual Property protection for work created by staff and research students.
Historically it has particularly applied to the process of making patent applications.
The university has a requirement to report patent applications and other aspects of its commercial activity based on intellectual property created from projects it supports and enables.
The Invention Disclosure process is one route by which the university can become informed about projects which might have commercial potential and where it might be able to assist in developing a pathway to impact for the invention.
It is never too early to speak with members of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group (EIG) if you have any ideas of a commercial or entrepreneurial nature.
You should free to get in touch with the Innovation team by emailing innovation@rgu.ac.uk .
You will need you to tell us about your invention, what you have created, how it might be used, and who you think might be interested in making use of your invention.
We also need some background information relating to the invention.
In particular we will ask about how the project may have been funded, who has been involved and if you have published or spoken publicly about your project.
Don’t worry if you are unable to answer all of the questions at one time.
We treat your submission as a place holder and will work with you to populate a more complete picture.
If you are unsure about how to answer any of the questions or feel free to get in touch with the Innovation team by emailing innovation@rgu.ac.uk .
You should make an Invention Disclosure as soon as you have created a new piece of work which may be exploitable for purposes other than purely scholarly or academic use.
A strong trigger for making an Invention Disclosure would be if you have been approached externally for access to your work.
Other triggers may be that you believe your work may have application beyond academic use or may be exploitable in a related field or sector.
If you believe others may pay to access your work, then you should make an Invention Disclosure.
It is never too early to speak with members of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group if you have any ideas of a commercial or entrepreneurial nature.
The requirement to provide an Invention Disclosure applies to all members of staff under a contract of employment and also other persons who may participate in RGU research or utilise RGU facilities of resources.
This includes research students who may not be under contract of employment with the University.
If you are unsure if the requirement applied to you contact the Innovation team by emailing innovation@rgu.ac.uk .
There is an obligation on all staff and most students undertaking a research degree to notify the University when they have created new intellectual property which may be commercially exploitable.
There is no expectation or requirement on individuals submitting an Invention Disclosure that they will be involved in a spin out company or other commercial activity.
There is a requirement on the university that it must share any benefits of commercialisation with contributors of any commercialised IP.
This is set out in the Policy on Intellectual Property Commercialisation.
Intellectual Property Commercialisation Policy
You need to make an Invention Disclosure.
We will work with you to develop the Invention Disclosure to a point where it may be submitted to a Patent Attorney for evaluation.
Contact the Innovation team by emailing innovation@rgu.ac.uk to give advice or let you know about other programmes offered at RGU.
If you are at the idea stage and have not begun to implement your idea then you may not be ready to make an Invention Disclosure.
You should feel free to contact any member of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group for advice on how to develop your idea or simply for us to provide an impartial sounding board for your innovation.
If you need to submit an Invention Disclosure, then you can either complete this online by clicking the link or you can contact the Innovation team by emailing innovation@rgu.ac.uk to request the form.
Completing an Invention Disclosure is the first step in the process of commercialising innovation at the university.
For some staff, they may choose to spin out their invention into a new company beyond the university.
The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group at RGU provides a range of support to startups, spinouts and innovators.
If you are considering the potential of becoming a spinout, find out more about the process:
We run Intellectual Property workshops and Invention Disclosure briefing sessions throughout the year, find out about our latest events:
You can also book a consultation meeting with a member of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group, either about your business idea or specifically about the invention disclosure process.
If you have any questions or want to know more, then get in touch at innovation@rgu.ac.uk
For staff or researchers who develop an innovative idea we seek to support you to commercialise the idea and offer the opportunity spinout your inventions onto commercial businesses.
As a university we want to adapt and innovate for the future to design new models of teaching, pioneer new research and design new ways to serve our communities.
Through our programmes we have worked with student, staff and alumni entrepreneurs to create dozens of new businesses across a diversity of sectors.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/report-support:
Support & Advice Services
Our Report + Support platform is here for our students and staff to report incidents of Gender Based Violence, Hate Crime, Harassment or Bullying to us at RGU, either anonymously, to simply disclose, or to get further support from our services.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/staff-development-opportunities:
The Human Resources department offers skills development programmes and host courses to help with the transition into management or leadership with Pioneer, Voyager and Discoverer programmes.
Find out about all the opportunities.
Our ambition is to inspire our communities to innovate for the future through regular guest speakers, practical workshops and events.
From individual advice, to free resources, to delivering staff development workshops, the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group provide a range of services to empower staff to innovate.
DELTA runs a range of events to support enhancement of learning, teaching and access across the university.
The Professional Teaching Framework (PTF) groups together a number of Higher Education Academy accredited CPD opportunities for our staff who are involved in teaching and supporting learning with the recognition of becoming a Fellow of the HEA.
The annual Researcher Development Programme is open to Graduate Students and Early Career Researchers at Robert Gordon University.
It is designed to support you on your journey as a member of an inter-disciplinary researcher community.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/cid:
The Department of Academic Quality and Learning Enhancement is responsible for maintaining accurate course information, in the form of Course Specifications, and administers the University's Course and Module Explorer.
Approved Course Specifications not currently held in the Course and Module Explorer:
Course Specification - MSc Business Analytics (PDF 457KB) Course Specification - MSc Big Data Analytics (Session 2024-25) (PDF 351KB) Course Specification - MSc Big Data Analytics (Session 2025-26) (PDF 351KB) Course Specification - BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (Session 2024-25) (PDF 537KB) Course Specification - BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (Session 2025-26) (PDF 537KB)
Currently 55% of courses in the University carry some form of PSRB accreditation.
This information details accreditation on a course by course basis.
PSRB - Aberdeen Business School (PDF 104KB) PSRB - Department for the Enhancement of Learning Teaching and Access (PDF 41KB) PSRB - Grays School of Art (PDF 65KB) PSRB - School of Applied Social Studies (PDF 57KB) PSRB - School of Computing (PDF 51KB) PSRB - School of Creative and Cultural Business (PDF 151KB) PSRB - School of Engineering (PDF 66KB) PSRB - School of Health Sciences (PDF 94KB) PSRB - School of Nursing, Midwifery & Paramedic Practice (PDF 72KB) PSRB - School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences (PDF 90KB) PSRB - Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment (PDF 69KB) PSRB - The Law School (PDF 147KB)

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-helpdesk/wireless-access:
Staff and students who wish to connect to wifi on our Garthdee Campus can do so by using the eduroam service.
Setting up a connection to eduroam is easy:
New students and staff, please ensure that you have reset your initial password.
Once set up, your device should automatically connect to eduroam whenever it is in range at any participating institutions in the UK or worldwide:
Our services are accessible via eduroam.
If you are visiting RGU from an institution that participates in the eduroam scheme, you can connect to the “eduroam” SSID however you are required to configure your device in advance while at your home institution.
While connected to RGU’s eduroam service you should use the credentials supplied by your home institution.
For external visitors without eduroam The Cloud wifi service is available across Garthdee and the city centre.
If you experience problems getting online with The Cloud while on the RGU Campus, visit www.sky.com/wifi
The Cloud offers free internet access for 3 hours total per day per device on the RGU Campus (except where special access may be arranged for Events – check with your Event coordinator).
University staff and students should use the secure and constantly free eduroam wireless service instead.
Wifi is available in student accommodation at Woolmanhill, Crathie Student Village and Garthdee flats, provided by Robert Gordon University.
Full details are available in your flat.
For additional support, including printing, email, policies, please see our IT Service Desk support pages or contact the IT Service Desk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/graduation:
Events
Our graduation ceremonies celebrate the end of your years of hard work on your course.
Find out when the ceremonies are, what to expect and what you need to do before graduating.
Make sure to read information carefully before attending your upcoming ceremony to ensure the smooth running of your special day.
We can't wait to celebrate with you!
Winter 2025 Graduation Ceremonies will be announced shortly.
Registration is essential even if you do not wish to attend the award ceremony.
What to expect on the day of your Graduation Ceremony.
What you should wear for your graduation and how to order.
Order a photography package to capture your special day and find out about our Graduation Video.
Share your special event with your friends and family.
Browse a selection of merchandise to purchase to commemorate your graduation.
Showcasing the student experiences of a selection of our latest Graduates as they prepare to embark on the next chapter after completing their degrees.
Are you one of our RGU Alumni or are you soon to graduate from RGU?
Make a huge saving on your future course fees as we welcome our alumni back to study with a 20% discount.
As part of our lifelong learning commitment to our alumni we offer continued career development and professional enrichment support.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study-abroad:
Taking a period of study or work abroad can be challenging, but the experience can be extremely rewarding and you will develop your knowledge and skills by learning in a different social and cultural context.
A period of study at Robert Gordon University will enhance your career prospects and prove to be an unforgettable experience.
If you're thinking of undertaking an exchange, find out more.
Contact details for the Study Abroad team and International Exchange Co-ordinators at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/ask-rgu:
Ask RGU is your platform to ask questions, book appointments and obtain help during your RGU journey, connecting students with the University’s support services.
If you are unsure who to ask, AskRGU!
If you can’t find an answer or need further information, log a question and the relevant team will get back to you directly.
Ask RGU's features include:
From travel to tuition fees, accommodation to application forms and finance to free time, the Student Life Hub (formerly called the Student Help Point) can help whether you are on campus or online.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/campus-community-facilities/university-library:
Campus & Community Facilities
The University Library is open to all students and staff, including those studying remotely from the campus.
You have full access to the Library, online resources and borrowing facilities throughout your time studying.
Some Library services are also available for external members of the local and wider community.
On campus the Library is located within the Sir Ian Wood Building.
The Library tower is equipped with PCs, study desks, printers and WiFi and has desktop power for charging personal devices.
There’s also a large range of print books and journals and friendly staff on hand to assist with your enquiries.
The layout of the Library is aimed towards creating a quiet study environment where individuals can work on their assignments without distraction.
There are a couple of small bookable group rooms, but students looking for a more informal study or group space can book a space in the Student Union.
Many Library resources are available online including ebooks, journal articles, reports, databases and more.
The majority of these can be accessed 24/7 from wherever you are in the world using just your RGU username and password.
We’ve consulted with academic staff to ensure that Library online and print resources are the right ones for your course.
The team can also support you with database searching, referencing, Refworks and anything else Library related that you need help with.
You can contact the team by phone, email, Twitter, Facebook and there’s also an out of hours chat service when the Library is closed.
It’s easy to get in touch, so just let us know how we can help:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/new-students:
If you are new to the university this semester, we’re thrilled that you are joining our learning community.
And if you are a returning student, welcome back!
We have been busy making sure you will have the best learning experience, whatever you are studying and wherever you are.
Along with the pages on our website, which you can access before your enrol, we’ve put together lots of guides to help you get ready for your studies.
After enrolment, you can use your RGU login to access the guides on Moodle:
Information for International offer holders about when to arrive, visas, orientation, induction and more.
All students are required to enrol/register at the start of each stage of their course.
ID cards for Students, Staff and community members can be used for more than just identification, find out more.
The Study Skills team offer advice on a range of study skills, supporting you in meeting your academic potential, and in becoming a confident, independent learner.
As an International Student at RGU there is a range of immigration information, advice and guidance that the Student Immigration Team can offer you.
You might have a lot of questions relating to money.
Find some of the answers here.
Aberdeen is top 4 in the UK for affordability thanks to our lower living costs (QS Best Student Cities 2025).

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/your-timetable:
At RGU, we provide students with individual timetables containing on campus events they need to attend and any online teaching which must be viewed or attended online at a set time.
Individual timetables for Semester 1 2025/26 may be accessed from Monday 11 August but may not be fully populated with smaller group events (such as seminars) until the end of August, with some exceptions:
To access your individual timetable, once you have enrolled, choose one of these easy ways to help keep you on track and in the right place at the right time.
When you first log in to your individual timetable you may see a partial timetable with only lectures and events common to everyone taking the same modules.
Once you are assigned to tutorial/practical/seminar group(s) by your school, your timetable will also contain these events.
Optional module events will also appear in your timetable at a later date.
CELCAT Calendar is the easiest way for you to view your individual timetable for the whole semester, and the semester ahead once it becomes available .
The calendar displays your timetabled events in UK time and updates every 15 minutes.
Please ensure you logout and login to pick up any recent changes.
Please see our guide for full details of finding your way around the CELCAT Calendar.
CELCAT Navigating Calendar Guide
It is also possible to view your individual timetable up to 4 weeks ahead within the MyRGU App Calendar tile.
All events are displayed in your local time (or the timezone you have set up on your device).
If you are outside the UK there is no need to convert times.
This has already been done for you.
Join your events at the time shown in your app
Select the Calendar tile on the home screen.
Then simply scroll through the calendar weeks using the arrow keys.
Select events by tapping on them to reveal more details such as where the event is taking place and which module it is part of.
The data on your individual timetable updates in MYRGU every 15 minutes.
You may also view your timetable for the whole semester, and the semester ahead once it becomes available from MYRGU.
Select the Full Timetable tile also found on the home screen.
This will take you to CELCAT Calendar.
To use CELCAT Calendar please follow the instructions for 1.
RGU CELCAT Calendar
You no longer need to look up timetables for your group on Moodle because individual timetables are now available at RGU through CELCAT Calendar.
Instead you can login to CELCAT Calendar and look at the events you have been personally assigned to.
However, if you still wish to access your calendar for your groups, you can do so via Timetabling on RGyoU.
Group timetables on CELCAT update overnight and therefore, any changes made by your school are not reflected until the following working day.
For a more up to date timetable, please refer to your individual timetable through either CELCAT or MyRGU .
If you are having difficulty signing up for and receiving updates to your individual timetable:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/your-attendance:
RGU gathers attendance using an app called Attendr.
To confirm your attendance, you will need to download the app onto your smartphone or tablet prior to the start of teaching.
Attendance and Engagement at RGU will be monitored in line with the Attendance and Engagement policy and the attendance requirements of your School, which can be found in your Student Handbook.
As part of the monitoring process Schools may consider attendance and engagement information from a range of data sources including, for example, data drawn from the University attendance monitoring system, student records system, and Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Moodle and integrated learning technologies.
Students’ data will only be processed for the purposes detailed in the Attendance and Engagement Policy and the data will be managed in accordance with the Data Protection Act (2018).
Detailed information about data protection, how and why the university processes students’ personal data can be found on the Data Protection pages.
Attendr is available to download on Apple or Android smartphones and tablets.
The app contains your individual timetable for the day and allows you to confirm your attendance in both on-campus and online classes.
During class, your lecturer will let you know when they are about to take attendance.
You then open the app and confirm your attendance with the click of a button.
Don't worry if you can’t download the app or forget to bring your device to class, your lecturer can still sign you in on their app.
Attendr records an attendance mark against your name and student number for each timetabled class you attend.
No other data is recorded by the app.
Here’s a short video with everything you need to know:
Here’s a how to guide, if you prefer to read instructions:
Attendr App Student Guide
Download the app from your smartphone or tablet.
Search for ‘RGU Attend Student’ in the Google Play Store or Apple Store:
The Attendr Help Centre can be found on the app by clicking the icon with question mark (?) in the app or going straight to the page:
If you know you will not be able to attend a class, you can notify the University beforehand via the Student Absence Portal in MyRGU.
Simply log in and add a new absence note indicating the times and dates covered.
You will need to select the reason for your absence from the options available.
This will automatically update your attendance record.
Absence notes can last up to 7 days (including weekends) and be provided up to 7 days in advance.
If you are absent for longer than 7 consecutive days, you should refer to you School policy.
It is important that you let your School know why you are unable to attend teaching events.
This will help your School plan how best to support you to get back on track.
For some students, attendance must be recorded for visa or bursary requirements.
As part of the University’s Academic Regulations, students are expected to meet the attendance requirements set out by their School or Course specification.
Student Absence Portal Guide
For further help, contact:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/accommodation/40-accommodation:
Joining us through Clearing?
You’ll be guaranteed a place in RGU accommodation.
(terms and conditions apply and a separate application is required) Find out about Clearing 2025
Find out why staying in halls is the best decision you could make right now.
We are committed to providing safe, secure and affordable accommodation for our students.
We have self-catering accommodation at four sites across the city offering a range of prices, rooms, flats and locations; with free and discounted rooms for qualifying students.
We can help you choose the right accommodation for you.
Find out about the most common payment plans for university accommodation, how to make your payment and details of the core insurance included in your rent.
We are delighted that you are considering applying for accommodation at Robert Gordon University.
We help you through our application process, providing you with all the advice and guidance you need to make an application.
Short stay accommodation available for stays between 1 day and up to 4 weeks for students and visitors.
Take a look at our video to discover our range of student accommodation and details of locations and facilities, helping you to choose the best accommodation option.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/567-support-advice-services:
RGU will be providing free sanitary products on campus as part of the Scottish Government's Period Poverty initiative.
The dedicated team at the Inclusion Centre are on hand to provide you with information and advice to support you through your time at RGU.
Our chaplaincy service is available for people of all faiths and none.
RGU ResLife ensures that all RGU students benefit from their University experience and have all the available resources on hand to help them succeed personally, socially and academically.
Working in partnership with RGU:Union, the Student Life Department is on hand to provide you with advice, support and assistance if you’re managing various responsibilities of academic life, pregnancy and parenthood.
A trusted contact is the person we will contact if there is a serious concern about your welfare.
Reasons for contact may include a medical emergency such as admittance to hospital, concern for your wellbeing, you have gone missing or you displaying symptoms of serious physical or mental illness or concerning behaviour.
Taking that next step to university is exciting, but we understand it can be daunting, particularly if you are moving from a different city.
We have nearly 20 years of experience in helping students transition from college to university and have a range of support in place should you need it.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/medical-services:
During this time when pressure is on our health services, we wanted to provide you with some useful information to help you manage any health concerns or issues as they arise.
We have been asked to share with you different means and alternative methods of receiving medical support and care.
Where appropriate, this may include visiting a pharmacy, optician or dentist before contacting a GP.
View these useful resources from Aberdeen City Health and Social Care Partnership:
Aberdeen City GP Practice Registration Availability
There are a number of practices that aren’t open to new patients, other Aberdeen practices are open and accepting new patient students (based on postcode).
For students living in Crathie Student Village, Garthdee Towers and Ramsay Development accommodation and students new to living in the AB10 postcode area, Garthdee Medical Practice will accept new patients.
Old Aberdeen Medical Practice will register students residing in the Woolmanhill flats.
If it's a non-life threatening emergency, and you need medical assistance urgently out-with your surgery opening hours call NHS 24 on 111
The NHS 24 111 service provides urgent health advice out of hours, when your GP practice or dentist is closed.
It's sometimes referred to as 'unscheduled care services'.
This means that the service is there for you, in the out of hours period when other sources of support such as your doctor or dentist are closed.
We deal with the majority of calls during:
People across Scotland can access the service, on landlines and mobile phones free of charge, using a number that is short and easy to remember.
Find out where the nearest Pharmacies and Medical Practices are in and around Aberdeen.
The NHS can also offer dental services, subject to availability.
Search for a dental practice near you:
EEA students will not be removed from the UK or refused entry solely because they do not have comprehensive sickness insurance (CSI), however please be aware that it is a requirement for EEA students and their family members to have CSI.
The UK government does not accept access to the National Health Service (NHS) as meeting this requirement and has said it will only accept one of the following as evidence of CSI:
We would advise that EEA students obtain a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) issued from their country of origin prior to coming to the UK to cover them for their stay as a student.
This card should be free of charge.
Students are also recommended to take out comprehensive private medical insurance to cover them for all eventualities.
The National Health Service (NHS) is a publicly funded healthcare system of the United Kingdom and provides free health and medical care for all UK citizens.
NHS services are free for UK students.
Students from EU countries may be eligible for free treatment or services from the NHS through the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) system.
Find out the latest guidance:
As part of your visa application, you will be required to pay an Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
The cost is £776 for every 12-month stay in the UK.
Paying the IHS entitles you to routine healthcare under the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK.
We advise you to register with GP should you require medical treatment and/or attention.
You do not need to pay the surcharge if you’re applying from outside the UK for 6 months or less, therefore it is advised that you take out private medical insurance before you arrive in the UK.
You can register with a National Health Service practice but please be aware that as a private patient you will have to pay for consultation, treatment, and any medication.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/student-union:
This is where the Students’ Union comes in!
When you join RGU, you automatically become a member of RGU:Union, and they are here to make your time at RGU the best that it possibly can be, by providing a number of different activities and opportunities for you to get involved with.
These include sports clubs, societies, student media, raising money for charity, or volunteering in the community - the list is endless, but the bottom line is that the Union exists to help students, and that is their number one priority.
Find out what's on, how you can get involved and a full list of clubs and societies at the Union:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/current-research-degree-students:
Use the same username and password as you would for Outlook or Office 365.
Once we approve your account, we'll send your username and password to you via email.
Forgot your password?

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/myrgu:
The app provides you with everything you need in one place and with notifications to keep you updated, MYRGU will be your go-to app during your learning and education experience.
The MYRGU app also synchronises with the web based desktop site, providing access to the same apps and data for a seamless experience.
Plus any changes you make to the mobile dashboard on your desktop will be synced to the mobile app to make personalisation quick and easy.
Features include:
Further systems and functionality will be added in subsequent phases on consultation with schools, students and support services.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/password:
In support of this security initiative adverts will be appearing on the big screens and staff will receive direct emails.
Communication with students will be delivered through the student president managed channels including blogs and newsletters.
Staff and Students must first set up multi-factor authentication on their RGU Email accounts to allow the use of the Self Service Password Manager.
This can be done by signing into the account and following the steps provided when you first sign in.
Read our step-by-step guide for further assistance:
After completing the Authentication Set-Up, you will be able to use the Password Manager to reset your account password without the intervention of the RGU IT Helpdesk:
Users that are unable to set up the authentication or have issues with the authentication already on the account (Old Device/Phone number attached), should contact us at itservicedesk@rgu.ac.uk or create a ticket on the IT Service Desk Portal to get your issue resolved.
You can change your RGU password at any time using the Password Management tool noting that RGU passwords must meet the following criteria:
If you are unable to change your password via the Password Management Tool then please contact the IT Helpdesk for support via the IT Service Desk Portal .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgusport/free-student-membership:
RGU SPORT
At RGU we know how important it is, now more than ever, to live an active lifestyle in order to maintain your physical, mental and social wellbeing.
To support students to stay active and well, we are delighted to be offering full time RGU students free membership to our facilities
Exercise is beneficial for mental, physical, and social wellbeing, which in turn will support you to thrive as a learner at RGU.
As such, RGU students studying full time on campus have access to a free RGU SPORT membership throughout their time at RGU.
Your membership includes unlimited access to the gym , swimming pool and group exercise classes , as well as discounts on our climbing wall and bouldering room , sports hall activities .
Should you have any difficulties taking out your student membership please email RGU SPORT at rgusportenquiries@rgu.ac.uk
If you are new to the gym environment, don’t worry, take advantage of our free gym orientations running every day or watch our online gym orientation .
The in-person orientations are designed for anyone that is new to the gym or is looking for a refresher on how to safely use the gym equipment.
These can be booked online:
If you have any questions, please email us directly at RGUSportEnquiries@rgu.ac.uk and a member of team will be more than happy to help.
Find out more about our location, keeping updated on social media and alternative ways to get in touch:
Login to the MyRGUSPORT portal to manage your membership and to book your classes and sessions.
Robert Gordon University has state-of-the-art sports facilities available for the region and acts as a social hub for the Garthdee campus.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/finance-funding/21-finance-funding:
Use the search and filters to find funding and scholarship options available to you.
Payment options can be confusing.
Find out how and if you pay your university fees.
Phone numbers, email addresses and website for financial support questions and enquiries.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/counselling-wellbeing:
The Counselling & Wellbeing Service is here to help and support you throughout your time at University.
We understand that all aspects of life can be effected by life events or changes in our wellbeing and our aim is to support your satisfaction and vitality as you move through your academic journey.
We can talk over personal and academic issues that are concerning you.
We offer you a safe, non-judgemental space.
The service is free, all students are welcome.
We offer collaborative wellbeing support, providing guidance and information on RGU and external supports available and can help link in with what you need.
We can refer you to on-campus or virtual short-term counselling appointments with our team of professional counsellors
We can support you whether you are on campus, on placement, working full time, learning online or have caring commitments
Appointments with our team can be in person, by telephone or video call or via chat or email.
You can contact the service Monday to Friday, between 9:30 & 16:00.
Wellbeing & Counselling appointments are available on week days and some evenings through the week.
Your first appointment will be a wellbeing appointment with the Student Wellbeing Advisor or one of our Counsellors.
Making a first wellbeing appointment is simple.
Book online using AskRGU or phone 01224 262120, or if you are on campus, visit the Student Life Hub at the Ishbel Gordon Building, Level 3.
If you can only see appointments for the next two weeks, please extend the date search for further appointments.
The Wellbeing Advisor or Counsellor may refer you to counselling or other support services within RGU, or continue to have wellbeing appointments.
If referred to Counselling, the Counselling Co-ordinator will make contact with you and book an appointment that is suitable to you and your preferred method of contact.
We can support you whether you are on campus, on placement, working full time, learning online or have family commitments.
Current students can log into our page on Moodle for more information & resources :
Tutors, Lecturers and academic staff will not know that you have attended the service unless you choose to tell them.
We are bound by strict codes of practice in how we store and share information and any contact with the service is not on your academic record.
We support students with anything that is getting in the way of you having a good University experience.
If it is important to you, we will take you seriously.
We have a range of wellbeing and counselling appointments: daytime and evening by Teams, telephone, email or chat, so we can meet you wherever you are in a way that suits you.
We are pleased that this is no longer the case; over the last few years our team has grown and we are able to accommodate students who request a service.
We offer an initial wellbeing appointment where you can ask further questions and discuss your hopes and any concerns about seeking support.
You can agree to meet the Wellbeing Advisor again, find information on other external services, or if you request to so so, be referred to counselling.
Once you are allocated a counsellor you will discuss your needs with them.
We are committed to supporting you having choice in how you use what we have to offer.
You can use as as few sessions as you need.
You can come for one and see how it goes, and if that feels enough for you and you get what you need, you don't have to use the rest.
You and the counsellor will talk about this as you go along.
We work on a short -term basis offering up to 4 sessions each academic year.
"We offer you a safe space for you to talk any time you like, in your own way - about whatever's getting to you."
Call Free on 116 123
"Sometimes our thoughts and feelings can overwhelm us.
It helps to get some Breathing Space.
Pick up the phone - we're here to listen."
Call Free on 0800 83 85 87
If you require immediate help, please contact:
Emergency Services - Call 999 in life threatening situations

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/enrolment:
As part of the admissions process, new students will receive an invitation to enrol via email from the Student Admissions Service.
If you have conditions to your offer, these will need to have been met before you receive your enrolment invitation.
The enrolment invitation email will provide you with all the information you need to enrol, along with how to set your password for the University IT systems , how to access the 'Welcome' information on our virtual learning environment Moodle and information about the how to use the MyRGU app.
Enrolment normally closes 10 days after the start of formal teaching.
The specific date for your academic year will be provided in your invitation email, but if you are worried about meeting this date, please speak to the Student Admissions Service or the academic school where your course is taught.
For new students on campus, Student Records will be in the Student Union, Riverside Building 08-23 September 2025 between 10:00 - 15:00 to help with any enrolment questions you may have.
During enrolment you will:
At the end of online enrolment you will be asked to accept the Terms and Conditions of the University:
Terms and Conditions of Admission and Enrolment
Once enrolled you will receive a confirmation email which provides you with:
Following enrolment, you will start to receive emails to your RGU email account with help and advice to get you started.
You will also start to receive messages from your academic school via the course induction areas on Moodle .
If you are a new full time, home or RUK (Rest of UK) student, who is studying on campus, and you have completed enrolment and uploaded a suitable photograph by the 31 August 2025 you can collect your printed Student ID card from:
If you complete enrolment and photograph upload after the 31 August 2025 please leave at least 5 working days before collecting your card.
ID cards for part time on campus students are automatically posted to your term time address.
Online learners will also receive their ID cards by post.
If you have any questions about your new ID card, please log a question on ask.rgu.ac.uk
Continuing students will receive an email with a link to the Enrolment Portal each time they need to enrol.
How and if you pay your fees will depend upon a number of factors.
We have included full information about fee payment - including information for sponsored, overseas, self funding and for government funded students.
Further information regarding payment options:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/student-academic-and-misconduct-appeals:
This resource provides some facts and figures about Academic Appeals (Awards and Progression), and cases of Academic Misconduct and Non-Academic Misconduct and Misconduct Appeals, considered by the university.
The university's Academic Council annually receives a report summarising the number of Academic Appeals (Awards and Progression), and cases of Academic Misconduct and Non-Academic Misconduct and Misconduct Appeals raised during the session, as required by the university's Academic Regulation A3: Student Conduct and Appeals:
Student Academic and Misconduct Appeals - Annual Report 2016-17 (PDF 329KB) Student Academic and Misconduct Appeals - Annual Report 2015-16 (PDF 445KB) Student Academic and Misconduct Appeals - Annual Report 2014-15 (PDF 221KB) Student Academic and Misconduct Appeals - Annual Report 2013-14 (PDF 283KB)
To view reports on recent cases investigated by the SPSO, go to the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman website, and search for "Robert Gordon University".

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/student-representation-and-partnership:
As part of RGU’s commitment to working in partnership with students, the University provides students with the opportunity to engage in a variety of feedback activities.
Find out how you can 'get involved' at university, the different ways you can provide feedback, contribute to decisions taken by the University, as well as what actions are currently being taken in response to student feedback.
We are recruiting Student Interns to start from 23 June for 5 weeks.
There are two roles focusing on the Gender Based Violence Strategy and Student Partnership Agreement.
If you are interested in learning more, please view the role descriptions:
Student Experience and Partnership Student Interns
Interested?
Apply today:
If you have any questions about the roles, email partnership@rgu.ac.uk .
We are currently recruiting our Student School Officers for the Academic Year 2024/25.
If you are interested in learning more, please visit the RGU:Union webpage for further information and to apply.
Applications are open to current students who can commit to the role for a full academic year.
RGU strives to offer students the very best university experience by working in partnership with our students to create a vibrant learning community.
By working closely with RGU:Union and collecting feedback directly from students, the University is able to ensure that student are represented at every stage of development.
Individually, and collectively, students and staff continue to help shape and change the student experience within the university.
In response to student feedback the University launched the RGU Learning and Teaching Framework, outlining our commitment to providing transformative education.
Some of the ways that you can provide your views and opinions are through:
To find out more about the above or a wider range opportunities to get involved, please contact the University or RGU:Union .
In response to student feedback, the university has introduced changes such as:
Our work in partnership isn't possible without student representatives, student school officers and other representative roles within the University.
Through training and fulfilment of these roles, you will learn transferable skills which will enable you to showcase your ability to thrive in a working environment and contribute to a productive team.
In addition to this, students who have completed their role as a student representative, or engaged in relevant recognised activities, will receive recognition on their HEAR record .
The University's RGU Plus Beyond the Classroom Pathway (BCP) allows you to turn your experiences in these roles into employability skills and awards, by recognising the skills, time, effort and value that your experience can offer.
In addition to the Student Representative  and Student School Officer roles, the Students' Union's affiliated Societies , Student Groups , Networks , Sports Clubs and other volunteering opportunities, all contribute towards an application to the Engagement and Partnership Awards .
The 2024/25 Student Partnership Agreement launched in January 2024.
The Agreement will run for the next 18 months, as we focus on our objective of “fostering an engaged and inclusive RGU community”.
Under this objective, we will focus on three strands of activity:
Listen to Jill Stevenson, Director of Student Life, and your Student Presidents, Toyin, Patricia, and Phoebe, explain more about the Agreement:
Over the next 18 months, we will be looking for students to take part in surveys, focus groups, and partnership projects around our three key areas of focus.
Student Reps and Student School Officers will be involved in gathering feedback from classmates and working with staff to implement actions based on this feedback.
We will also work directly with any students who are interested in being involved with partnership activities, by seeking out and listening to feedback and recruiting students to work with us on engagement projects.
Everyone will have the opportunity to be involved and make a difference.
We will promote partnership activity through social media and email communication.
To learn more, email:
Find us on social media:
The more you are involved, the more your voice is heard, and the better we can make everyone’s experience at RGU.
Download our new Student Partnership Agreement:
Student Partnership Agreement
Current students can find out more about representation and partnership by emailing partnership@rgu.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/academic-quality-handbook:
Within the University’s quality assurance framework the Academic Quality Handbook defines and provides detailed operational guidance on the University’s quality assurance procedures.
The three main components include:
Our short guide to Academic Quality Procedures has been designed to provide an outline of the University's academic quality assurance procedures, to enable the reader to decide what procedure is appropriate for what purpose, and to guide the reader to the most appropriate source for further information.
We are working to resolve any document accessibility issues for the 2023-24 session.
The Academic Quality Handbook documents are available in different formats on request from academicquality@rgu.ac.uk
This section in the Academic Quality Handbook is being revised and will be available to view shortly.
Proformas associated with all aspects of the research degrees process are available from the Research Degrees area.
The processes for review and validation are outlined in Sections 1 and 3 of the Academic Quality Handbook
Access to some review and validation documents is restricted to internal use only.
Institution-Led Subject Reviews (ILSRs), Internal Reviews, Course Re-approvals, Validations and Interim Review Responses:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/content_page/item/2756-higher-education-achievement-report-hear:
HEAR provides verified information about students’ academic and university approved/verified non-degree related achievements.
HEAR is an electronic document that will be available to you in perpetuity.
You will be issued with an updated ‘Interim HEAR’ annually in October/November, and a ‘Final HEAR’ will be issued when you graduate.
HEARs are designed to give potential employers and other universities more insight into course/ programme contents and individual student achievements that have been verified by the university.
The HEAR is designed to:
You are eligible for a HEAR if you are:
This does not include students/graduates of the following:
The HEAR is a national requirement.
The layout and format has been prescribed at a national level by the ‘Measuring and Recording Student Achievement Steering Group’ (Burgess Group).
This layout and format has been copyrighted.
It is to be provided as an electronic document.
The service the University is using to provide students with a HEAR is Gradintel, part of the Tribal Group and the suppliers of the student record system.
This approach is being adopted by many other universities.
Throughout your academic career your HEAR will develop as more information is added to it.
Only information verified by the University and/or the Student Association will be included on the HEAR.
Types of Information Recorded
The University’s most senior academic committee, Academic Council is responsible for approving the types of non-degree related achievements that can be considered for inclusion in a HEAR according to a set of guiding principles.
In addition, items should be:
For further information on volunteering, contact
Accredited performance in non-academic contexts measured/assessed by, or with external accreditation recognised by, the University.
For the avoidance of doubt, this also provides the opportunity for the inclusion of individual units/modules studies, in addition to the main degree programme, if these do not already appear in section 4.3 of the student transcript.
Rewarding both academic and non-academic achievement.
Undertaken by students which demonstrate achievement but for which no recognition is provided in terms of academic credit.
This may include volunteering, representative roles or training courses provided or recognised within the institutional context roles; for example representation at national level in sport, or participation in activities encouraged within formal learning but demonstrated through individual student effort out with formally accredited activities.
Full HEARs are issued on graduation for you to access as an electronic, lifelong document.
Interim HEARS are issued annually.
Email notification will be sent to your University email account with details of how to access the report.
Access and use of Gradintel services is free for students.
You have control of who sees your documents with the potential to send quickly to multiple destinations so that they can view this secure, authenticated document and confirm the award you have received.
Students who wish to share their HEAR with third parties such as prospective employers, other higher education institutions or any other third party can do so by issuing them with a secure logon.
Third parties, who have access permissions issued by students, may view the verified HEAR and print a copy, but it should be noted that the printed version is no longer a verified record by Robert Gordon University.
You can issue a token to third parties and specify how many times it can be viewed.
More information about this is available from:
The Careers & Employability Centre can support all current students and recent graduates with all aspects of their career planning, job/course search and in making effective applications – full details of services available can be found on the Careers & Employability Centre webpages and on Moodle .
Ease of authentication will be a real benefit to employers.
Information supplied on application forms or CVs can easily be verified through a simple registration system to view the secure HEAR document on the Gradintel website .
Waiting time for confirmation of award will also be reduced.
HEARs are provided in electronic format.
You can view your HEAR on the Gradintel website .
We will create an account for you as part of your registration at the University and contact you when it is ready to be activated (normally following graduation).
For interim HEARs you will be contacted once a year.
Gradintel’s services, including access to the HEAR, are free for students.
Robert Gordon University will publish final HEARs on Gradintel’s site twice a year in August and December.
In both cases, publication relates to the previous graduations.
Students will be made aware that HEARs are available by the Student Records and Information Team.
Only in exceptional circumstances will a paper copy HEAR be provided.
Students who require a paper copy should contact studentrecords@rgu.ac.uk
Gradintel provides other services and students who are currently not eligible for a HEAR can register directly with Gradintel.
These services are also free for students.
Robert Gordon University has no access to any information posted by individual students to the Gradintel website.
When you graduate, or leave Robert Gordon University for any other reason, a final version of your HEAR will be published.
From then on, you will be able to access your HEAR on Gradintel.
Gradintel is the service Robert Gordon University is using to publish the HEAR electronically.
The service allows you to share your HEAR with others such as potential employers or other universities.
More information is available on the Gradintel website .
Diploma Supplements are also available on Gradintel.
A Diploma Supplement provides a standard description of the nature, level, context, content and status of the studies you have completed.
Robert Gordon University is working in partnership with Gradintel, part of the Tribal Group who supply the university student records system, to produce HEARs.
HEARs are virtual documents that can be accessed when the university issues you with your account activation email.
You need to register with Gradintel so that you have a secure way of accessing your HEAR.
If you think that the information about your academic achievements are incorrect, you should contact studentrecords@rgu.ac.uk in the first instance.
If you think that the information about your non-degree related achievements are incorrect, you should contact the verifying body in the first instance; for example, contact RGU SPORT for a query relating to a sports award or the Student Union for a query relating to voluntary work.
Your academic achievements, such as (examination/assessment results) will be published on a HEAR by the university.
Any queries relating to this information should be directed to studentrecords@rgu.ac.uk in the first instance.
If you have any other errors on your HEAR contact the Student Records Department:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/get-in-touch/academic-record-requests:
Get in Touch
Former Students can request copies of their Academic Records.
You can request a replacement certificate through The Student Records Team if your original has been lost, stolen or damaged.
Replacements cost £35 and will usually bear the name of the graduate as they were known at the time of graduation.
Replacement certificates can be posted by courier to international destinations at an additional cost of £20.
Please email studentrecords@rgu.ac.uk with your request.
If your circumstance for requiring a replacement certificate is sensitive, and you would prefer to speak with someone directly, please contact the Student Records Team on +44 (0) 1224 262205.
Graduates from full-time undergraduate courses who completed their studies from 1 August 2013 will have access to their Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) via the online service provided by GradIntel.
Graduates from part-time undergraduate courses, graduate certificate courses and post-graduate certificate, diploma and master level courses who completed their studies from 1 August 2014 onwards will be provided with online access to a Diploma Supplement.
This service is provided by GradIntel.
The Student Records and Information Team can provide former students with official letters of confirmation.
Please send an email to studentrecords@rgu.ac.uk for further information.
Official letters of confirmation are free of charge.
There will be a charge of £20 if letters are requested to be sent by courier to international destinations
Transcript requests for studies are processed directly by individual schools.
Please contact your school.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/support-advice-services/careers-support:
Our Careers Consultants offer confidential, impartial, one-to-one appointments to support you to:
Current students can book a virtual careers appointment via AskRGU and, once booked, will receive a confirmation email.
Appointments are usually available Monday - Friday.
If you cannot find an appointment to suit your needs, contact the careers team via careers@rgu.ac.uk and we will try and arrange a mutually suitable time.
For prospective students or alumni, the Careers Team offer 30 minute in person or virtual careers appointments arrange via email careers@rgu.ac.uk .
Careers advice and guidance can also be provided by telephone, email , or Zoom.
It is advisable to spend some time prior to your appointment to think about what you would like to get out of the session.
A wealth of resources are available on RGU eHub which you can use to get you started on your career journey, including many practical tools.
If you would like a CV check, bring a draft copy of the CV with you so that the careers consultant can read it, offer feedback and you can make notes to develop it after the session if necessary.
In addition to individual appointments, careers consultants offer workshops as part of many academic courses.
We urge you to attend these when they are offered as they form a key part of careers learning at RGU.
Wider workshops and careers events are also offered.
These are advertised through RGU eHub Jobs where you can sign up to all relevant events as well as being advertised via our LinkedIn and Facebook pages.
RGU eHub is a comprehensive online careers information and advice resource to support RGU students with all aspects of your career journey including:
Current students can use RGU eHub practical tools as and when you need to acquire or build the skills to succeed within your course and make a successful transition from university into the workplace.
RGU eHub Jobs is a searchable vacancy database, provided through the Abintegro platform, which allows you to source part-time jobs, internships and graduate job vacancies.
You can also find employer events, including on-campus talks and careers fairs through RGU eHub jobs.
The Company Directory, an employer database, provides key information on top employers to inspire your job search.
RGU also partner with JobTeaser , a European based platform, to provide additional sources of opportunities
The Careers Team are happy to meet with prospective students and their supporters to provide information and advice on the likely  career outcomes of our courses and support you in making the right choice of course that will help you realise your career expectations.
To arrange a careers conversation as a prospective student or applicant, please email us on careers@rgu.ac.uk .
We hold various fairs throughout the academic year to bring employers together with current students for employment opportunities.
Part Time Jobs Fair 2025 18 September 2025 The Centre for Employability and Community Engagement at RGU invites all RGU students to the 2025 Part Time Jobs Fair.
RGU Law Careers Fair 02 October 2025 Are you a 3rd or 4th year LLB student exploring your future in law?
The RGU Centre for Employability invites you to attend the annual Law Careers Fair.
Graduate Careers Fair 2025 14 October 2025 The Centre for Employability and Community Engagement at RGU invites you to the 2025 Graduate Careers Fair.
RGU Health Careers Fair 15 October 2025 The RGU Centre for Employability invites healthcare students to attend our inaugural Health Careers Fair.
18 September 2025
The Centre for Employability and Community Engagement at RGU invites all RGU students to the 2025 Part Time Jobs Fair.
02 October 2025
Are you a 3rd or 4th year LLB student exploring your future in law?
14 October 2025
The Centre for Employability and Community Engagement at RGU invites you to the 2025 Graduate Careers Fair.
15 October 2025
The RGU Centre for Employability invites healthcare students to attend our inaugural Health Careers Fair.
In addition to RGU eHub resources, which are exclusively for RGU students and graduates, there are a wide range of open access career resources available to support and assist with your career research, planning and job search including:
Contact a member of the careers team:
Current students can book appointments, ask a new questions and get an immediate answers from our list of frequently asked questions:
Membership of the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) for 2023 – 2026.
Robert Gordon University are holders of the AGCAS Membership Quality Standard Certificate - defining the standards for expert delivery of careers and employability services in Higher Education.
Find out about our Careers staff and the wider department:
We have graduate employability at the heart of our approach to education, working closely with industry to ensure your knowledge and experience allows you to succeed when you graduate and thrive in your life-long career.
During your course at RGU, you have the opportunity to build your international awareness through studying or working abroad for a term.
You could travel to another university around the world and experience learning in a whole new environment.
These experiences help you stand out, and allow you to build your confidence, overcome new challenges & demonstrate global citizenship.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/employability/placements-at-rgu:
Employability
Throughout our courses, there is a wide range of compulsory and optional placements or work-related experiences.
Benefits include the opportunity to:
There are many ways you can develop experience at RGU including placements, projects and volunteering.
We encourage you to view the placement and job opportunities on our course pages or contact our team for more information:
Recruitment is a fundamental part of any business, it does not need to be difficult or costly.
Find out how we can help you connect with our students.
Our approach to developing our courses involves working closely with industry to understand what the needs for the future are and ensuring our teaching reflects the workplace.
There are various ways to engage with us and to advertise your opportunities.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/student-ambassadors:
Being a Student Ambassador is an exciting opportunity to represent RGU and support prospective students by sharing your knowledge and experience of what the university has to offer.
Student Ambassadors are crucial for student recruitment and play a highly influential role in a prospective student’s decision.
The main purpose of the role is to be an advocate for the university, to inspire and reassure prospective students through their journey to higher education.
The role is designed to work around your studies and personal commitments.
We offer flexible working hours, but due to the nature of the role, we cannot guarantee a set number of hours per month.
This highly rewarding role offers excellent experience for your CV and transferable skills for future employment.
Student Ambassadors are paid an hourly rate of £12.21 per hour.
Find out more about the specific responsibilities:
Student Ambassador Job Description 2025
For further information contact: studentrecruitment@rgu.ac.uk
"A fantastic opportunity to earn extra money in a way that is flexible around your studies and a great addition to your CV when you graduate.
If you're interested in welcoming good students onto campus and think that you can positively represent the university, this job is definitely for you." - John Doran, BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
"I love being a student at RGU and so I am very proud to be a Student Ambassador.
Meeting new people at Open Days and helping visitors decide they might want to join RGU is very rewarding." - Jessica Knox, BSc (Hons) Forensic and Analytical Science
Applications for Student Ambassador are now open!
It will close at 23:59 on Sunday 14 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/register-interest:
Date of Birth
I am interested in
Communications and Data Protection
As a result of completing this form you will receive an automatic confirmation email.
And if you have registered for one of our events, a series of further emails confirming important event information that you may need to know before visiting.
We will not disclose any such information to third parties unless required by law or your consent has been given.
Data will be processed securely and in full accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Universities Privacy and Cookie Policy .
Privacy | Disclaimer | RGU Website | ( Go to top )
©2025 - Robert Gordon University, Garthdee House, Garthdee Road, Aberdeen, AB10 7QB, Scotland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools:
Aberdeen Business School was named Business School of the Year 2020 (THE Awards 2020).
This means that we provide an outstanding business education and help create top quality work-ready graduates.
At the forefront of technology we foster innovation, entrepreneurial thinking and develop future-ready graduates capable of adapting to a rapidly changing world across a range of digital and engineering careers.
Will help you design, play, code and build our tomorrow.
Gray’s School of Art is an influential, multidisciplinary art school that has been leading and defining creative culture and development for over 130 years.
We are ranked 1st in Scotland and 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction in Art and Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
Make a positive impact in people’s lives and influence the future of healthcare.
From treating patients in health clinics to providing preventative self-care, the opportunities are limitless.
Studying at the School of Law and Social Sciences will provide you the opportunity to add real value to our society.
Our accredited courses are delivered in a stimulating, multidisciplinary and supportive environment.
Through our innovative teaching and practice-based learning, combined with your ambition to lead a rewarding people-focused career, together we will change the lives of the people and communities we serve.
Our unique undergraduate and postgraduate course portfolio takes a forward thinking approach, underpinned by research and is held in high regard by industry professionals.
The Graduate School offers an excellent research environment coupled with internationally recognised supervisors to support a high quality research student experience.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/contact-us/our-departments:
At RGU we have a dedicated team of business and commercial experts ready to collaborate and support you to meet your business needs.
Our Employability team are committed to supporting students and graduates throughout their studies and future career.
We work with Academic Schools and Employers to deliver quality, relevant experiences, which enrich the student journey and prepare graduates for the next stage in their career.
The Department of Communications, Marketing & Gatehouse covers a range of services and activity for the University.
From press releases, RGView articles, event planning and management, course promotion and other marketing activity, web and social, printing and graphics.
The Department for the Enhancement of Learning, Teaching, and Assessment (DELTA) plays a key role in further enhancing and transforming the student learning journey in line with RGU’s ambitious university strategy to provide students with an excellent experience that will enable them to raise their aspirations and thrive in their professional careers as global citizens.
Developing the Young Workforce is a Scottish Government initiative, which aims to make it easier for employers to connect with young people.
The regional group for Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire – DYW North East – is hosted at RGU and plays a key part in the delivery of the Young Person’s Guarantee.
Based in Aberdeen, at the heart of the North Sea offshore energy industry, the Institute draws upon the vast experience, thought-leadership and exclusive facilities that RGU has built up over more than four decades of engagement with the sector.
The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group are responsible for supporting the development of new businesses and inspiring innovation at RGU.
The Estates & Property Services Department provides a high quality maintenance and management service for all University premises and grounds.
When you graduate from Robert Gordon University, the journey is far from over and the door is always open.
Whether you’re a graduate looking to give an insight into your career or a student looking for some career inspiration and guidance – we’re here to help join the dots.
Covering academic quality, University policies, corporate governance, support for academic council and board of governors, committees, data protection, freedom of information and the university solicitor.
The HR department’s vision and purpose is to drive the required changes in culture, behaviours, leadership development, talent management, performance management, and reward and recognition, to ensure the University achieves its goals.
(For internal users only)
International College Robert Gordon University (ICRGU) offers alternative entry points into Robert Gordon University (RGU), both at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Courses are specifically matched to RGU degree programmes, taught in smaller classes with a more tailored approach in a supportive student-centered environment.
We can help you de-risk your investment by finding funding options with RGU as the right academic partner for your ambition.
Find out more about the funding support available.
You can’t miss the striking green glass Library tower located at the heart of the campus.
The University Library is open to all students, staff, and our local and wider community.
The National Subsea Centre (NSC) is the multi-million-pound Centre of Excellence for subsea research and technology development, delivered through partnership between RGU and Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC).
The Occupational Health and Environmental Services (OHES) team has the responsibility of providing expert advice and assistance to support Schools, Departments and Research Institutes in the implementation of their responsibilities within the University Safety Management System.
Student Life provides professional support services and co-curricular learning opportunities that help our diverse student community to thrive.
Helping all future students from within the UK, European Union, and across the globe through their application journey.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/contact-us/rgu-postal-addresses:
Robert Gordon University Garthdee House Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QB
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QE
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7FY
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QB
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7AP
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QD
Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QE
Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7GE
Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7GJ
Full contact details for all University accommodation locations can be found on the accommodation pages:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/schools-and-departments/administration-and-support/news-and-events-contacts/communications-department:
Communications, Marketing and Gatehouse
The team is responsible for the delivery of the university’s corporate communications strategy which includes proactive stakeholder engagement, strategic content development, media relations, public affairs and internal communications.
For urgent enquiries, please telephone the press office mobile: 07970 622229.
If you have a news item for the Communications Office, please contact newsdesk@rgu.ac.uk or contact a member of the communications team direct.
Verity Clark External Communications Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Clara Sutherland-Maurillon Internal Communications Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Proctor Communications Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
External Communications Officer
Internal Communications Officer
Communications Officer
Robert Gordon University frequently has a good story to tell.
Read the latest news from around the university.
RGView is the University’s community magazine.
It aims to celebrate and showcase RGU’s vibrant community through knowledge sharing, igniting discussion by featuring original thoughts and ideas.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/contact-us/emergency-contact-details:
This number is available 24 hours a day and is for use in the following circumstances:
This is not a number that should be used by the media.
All media enquiries should be routed through our Communications Team.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/the-student-experience/contact-a-student:
The Student Experience

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
For any enquiries please contact the Open Day Team - openday@rgu.ac.uk
Our Visit Afternoons are your opportunity to learn more about life at one of the top universities in Scotland for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide 2025).
You will be able to tailor your visit to include meeting with lecturers, student support services and current students, as well as tour our campus and student accommodation.
Can't visit in person?
Take a look at our state-of-the-art facilities, and stunning riverside campus from the comfort of your home - explore RGU!
Are you thinking of applying for an undergraduate programme starting in September 2025?
Have you already applied or are thinking of applying to study a course at RGU?
Our RGU Discovery Days are your chance to discover more about RGU to help you make an informed decision about whether RGU is the right choice for you and your future.
Join one of our online sessions to find out about student life, finding your way in a new city and anything you'll need know before studying here.
Choosing the right university is a big decision personally, academically and financially.
We welcome guidance teachers and careers advisers to events specifically aimed at providing information to help you help others make the right choice.
We regularly visit countries around the world to help with applications and questions from applicants.
Find out when we're visiting a city near you.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/apply/degree-link:
Apply
If you're studying for an HNC or HND at college, Degree Link gives you a guaranteed route to complete a degree at Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Every year, over 400 students make the move from college to university through this flexible and supportive pathway.
Starting your studies at college has many benefits:
With Degree Link, you’ll enjoy the best of both worlds: start your journey in college, then complete your degree at RGU - without losing any time.
Through our partnerships with colleges across Scotland, Degree Link offers:
Even if there’s no formal agreement for your course, we still welcome applications from students with relevant HNC or HND qualifications.
RGU has over 400 progression pathways in place with colleges across Scotland.
Whether you’re already studying at college or just exploring your options, Degree Link could be the route for you.
Don’t see your college listed?
We’re always updating our agreements.
If you have a relevant HNC or HND, you can still apply.
We run events throughout the year for college students like you.
Come along to learn about your articulation options, explore your future degree choices or chat with current Degree Link students.
RGU and NESCol have a longstanding relationship providing guaranteed progression opportunities for learners and have over 80 pathways available across all our academic Schools.
RGU and Dundee and Angus College have a longstanding relationship providing guaranteed progression opportunities for learners and have over 70 pathways in place for HN students.
We have over 75 guaranteed progression opportunities in place for Fife College students.
We have over 10 guaranteed progression opportunities in place for City of Glasgow college students.
We have over 40 guaranteed progression opportunities in place for Glasgow Clyde College students.
]We have over 35 guaranteed progression opportunities in place for Forth Valley College students.
We have over 30 guaranteed progression opportunities in place for West Lothian College students who would like to join us at Robert Gordon University.
The Associate Student Scheme is designed for students who are studying for a HNC or HND at one of our partner colleges and plan to progress to Robert Gordon University directly into year two or three of a linked degree course.
Hear from students like you.
Real stories.
Real journeys.
Discover how Degree Link has helped students like you move from college to university.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/employability:
In order to successfully get a job, graduates need the qualifications, experience and skills required to allow them to excel in the role.
Published: Wednesday 06 April 2022
Students from RGU are organising a host of spring fundraising events to raise awareness and funds for four Aberdeen based charities.
Published: Friday 04 March 2022
Writing for the Press and Journal, Donella Beaton, Robert Gordon University's Vice Principal for Economic Development, says a
broad approach to skills is critical if we are to get close to a just transition, create true equality of opportunity and generate the skills, knowledge and enterprise that Scotland needs.
Published: Thursday 29 July 2021
Robert Gordon University’s (RGU) Aberdeen Business School has been awarded Small Business Charter accreditation in recognition of its business support, entrepreneurship education and engagement within the local economy.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/prospectus-guides:
RGU Undergraduate Prospectus 2025
RGU Undergraduate Prospectus 2026
Our prospectuses have been produced as printed publications and every effort has been made to make them as digitally accessible as possible.
However, you can find out all about our courses and life at RGU in a fully accessible format on our website.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8341-personal-statement-clinic-10-sep:
Your personal statement is a crucial part of your UCAS application, and it is your chance to showcase the skills, attributes and experiences that will make you a good fit for the course you are applying for.
It must encompass your motivation for studying the course and explain why you have a genuine interest in the subject area or relevant industry.
At RGU, we want to support you through this process and we are here to give you some advice, hints and tips on making your personal statement the best it can be for applying to one of our courses!
Book a 1:1 appointment with a member of our UK Student Recruitment Team to get all the information you need to put the finishing touches on your personal statement and ask any questions you might have before submitting your application.
If you have any questions, please contact our team by emailing: studentrecruitment@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7080-architecture-students-join-forces-with-national-home-builder-on-design-project:
Monday 29 April 2024
As part of their module, second-year students studying Architectural Technology at the Scott Sutherland School of Architecture & Built Environment at Robert Gordon University (RGU), have been tasked with designing innovative, sustainable family homes.
The project is based on one of Cala’s West End phases of its Oldfold Village development in Milltimber, Aberdeen.
Bruce Masson, Architectural Manager at Cala Homes (North) and RGU alumni , helped devise the project, tasking students with creating flexible home designs that could accommodate a growing family and potentially a grandparent.
The brief includes many considerations Cala take into account when designing homes, including asking students to think about how their designs would meet Government CO2 targets and using renewable sources of energy to ensure they are energy efficient, high specification homes.
To help inspire their designs, Bruce welcomed the students to Murtle Den Park at Oldfold Village to see the live development and Cala’s house types.
Lecturer, Tahar Kouider said: “Preparing students to use the skills they learn on the course in the workplace is vital.
Therefore, we are delighted to have the support of Bruce and Cala Homes to help put the students’ work into context and give them a real scenario to base this project on which takes into consideration points a housebuilder must think about when creating a new community.
“The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture has a strong social ethos and is committed to inspiring students to incorporate sustainability into all their designs to minimise the environmental footprint and improve energy efficiency of all their builds.”
Bruce Masson, Architectural Manager at Cala Homes (North) “At Cala, sustainability is something we’re building our future on to leave a positive, lasting legacy for both people and the planet.
As part of our strategy, not only must we strive to build homes that are more sustainable, but we must also give our customers the tools and technology they need to operate their homes with zero emissions and live more sustainably.
“This was an important consideration in the brief we gave to the students to highlight some of the initiatives we have implemented to make our homes more sustainable and energy efficient, from solar panels to gas-free heating to biodiversity considerations.
Having studied the course myself, it is always encouraging to see students gain first-hand experience around practical design by showing them what we do at Cala and how this can be integrated with their learning.
“With sustainable technologies continually evolving, the students are very likely to be tasked with implementing sustainable designs no matter what industry they end up working in.
I’m looking forward to seeing the students’ creative designs and how they’ve approached the brief.”
Stage 2 Architectural Technology student, Keris Henderson, is one of the students working on the Cala Homes Milltimber project.
Keris said: “Over the past few months, I have visited the Milltimber site on various occasions which has given me a real insight into the different stages of construction from groundworks up to completion.
The Cala staff have also attended our studio every two weeks and helped us with construction details, along with answering our questions about our two-story dwelling projects, and associated sustainability design methods.
“This professional support has been invaluable and has expanded my knowledge within the profession.
The experience has been reflected positively in our weekly coursework reviews and will be very valuable as we move forward into our future careers.”
Murtle Den Park comprises a collection of two, three, four and five bedroom homes and forms part of the overall masterplan for the neighbourhood, which also includes green spaces to enjoy, local amenities and a primary school.
The phase includes a mix of terraced, semi-detached and detached homes and offers the perfect option for all homebuyers, whether they are looking to take the first step on the property ladder or move into their dream family home.
A selection of student work from the Cala Homes project will be exhibited in the Scott Sutherland’s End of Year Show 2024, which takes place at the Sir Ian Wood Building in RGU’s Garthdee campus, on 2 May, at 16:00 – 18:00.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2023/6263-ccb-celebrate-end-of-year-student-and-industry-success:
Monday 31 July 2023
Held in the front atrium of the Sir Ian Wood Building, the annual congratulatory event saw students from each stage of the school receive recognition for their outstanding work over the course of the year.
There were also industry awards for local organisations who have proved pivotal to CCB and their staff, courses, and students.
Jo Royle, Dean of the School of Creative and Cultural Business , said: “This has been another fantastic year for our high achieving students and having had the privilege to read out so many of their names at our recent graduation ceremony, it was a further delight to recognise many more them here too.
“Once again we’ve had valuable support from organisations in the North East who really help to enhance overall student experience through sponsorship, mentorship, placement opportunities and more – for which we are very grateful for.”
Among many winners was the recipient of the Donald John MacDonald STV Bursary Award, Jonathan Addison in Journalism.
This award was announced in 2021 following the death of DJ MacDonald, an avid and enthusiastic supporter of journalism at RGU and throughout the North East, who was posthumously awarded an Honorary Award from the University last year.
Other awards included recognising stage four research projects while there was also Best Overall Student awards in: Fashion Management , presented by Nichola Strachan, Principal Lecturer; both Media and Journalism , presented by Izzy Crawford, Subject Leader and Senior Lecturer; Digital Marketing , presented by Christine Reid, Lecturer; and CCPA and International Marketing , presented by Tracy Pirie, Principal Lecturer.
A Best Overall Student from stages one through to three of International Hospitality Management , International Tourism Management , and Event Management were also recognised for their efforts thanks to various sponsors who stepped forward.
Craig Leith, Senior Lecturer and Subject Leader in Hospitality, Tourism and Events, was on hand to present the awards.
He said: “As ever, myself and my colleagues in the Tourism, Hospitality and Events subject team greatly appreciate the wide range of local hotels and other tourism organisations who have once again sponsored our student awards.
“This sponsorship is only one of many examples of the greatly valued support we continually receive from industry throughout the year.
Thanks to them and congratulations again to all of the award winners.”
Achievements of the CCB students have also been marked through the sponsorship of a grove of trees thanks to the River Dee Trust .
The school, which looks out onto the banks of the famous Aberdeen river, is committing to enhancing sustainability and embedding it throughout their portfolio of courses and their partnership with the Trust is just one initiative to create impact.
Additionally, Izzy Crawford presented the Industry Awards to recognise their value to the University.
Winners included: Best Project Brief – Kim Stephen, P&J Live, and Steve Daun at ASM Global; Best Placement Student – Christine Kendi Keyonzo; Best Collaborative Partner – STV North; Best Collaborative Partners – Core29 Limited; and Best Mentor – Graham Morrison, Aberdeen Sports Village.
Alan Dick, Managing Director at Core29 , has a long and proud relationship with RGU and currently Chairs the RGU Alumni Council.
He said: “The team at Core29 were honoured to get this award.
With several of our team being RGU alumni, we have a long-standing respect for the University and the fabulous work undertaken by staff and students.
“At Core29 we see a lot of value in supporting the University and we really enjoy engaging with the programme and the students.
With events and classes being attended by our team, this in-person contact is very beneficial for both us and them.
“We’re looking forward to posing exciting new challenges to the students, seeing their creativity, and inspiring them in their future careers.
We would encourage every business and RGU alumni to find ways of engaging to deliver the mutual, and multiple, benefits.”
With thanks, sponsors of the awards ceremony included: Hilton TECA; Crichton; Beautiful Events and Productions; Norwood Hall Hotel; Jurys Inn Aberdeen; Park Inn by Raddison Aberdeen; The Chester Hotel; VisitAberdeenshire; P&J Live; The Marcliffe Hotel; The Maryculter House Hotel; Sandman Signature Aberdeen Hotel; Megan Falconer Jewellery & Silverware; Bosie Knitwear; and SpringGen Advice Ltd.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/garthdee-campus:
In recent years, we have invested around £120 million into our stunning riverside campus on the banks of the River Dee which has been specially designed with state-of-the-art facilities to enhance our students’ employability.
You can learn in our dynamic, purpose-built and modern facilities during classes, and relax outside of lectures in the tranquil parkland around the campus.
Visit Us Throughout the year there are a variety of opportunities for prospective students to visit RGU, meet staff and view the facilities first hand.
Virtual Campus Tour Can't visit in person?
Learning Facilities RGU has invested £120 million in the development of its campus, an ongoing project, and in new facilities and resources.
Campus & Community Facilities Many of our services and facilities on campus are available for the local community to use, together with our students and staff members.
Support & Advice Services We have heavily invested in our support networks both on and off campus to make the experience of studying at RGU the best it can possibly be.
Campus Map The RGU campus and business locations are easily accessible by foot, bike, bus, train and car.
Our Nature Positive Campus Our unique riverside campus lies on the banks of the River Dee and is home to a vast array of flora and fauna which the University is committed to helping thrive.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/the-student-experience:
Our courses are so varied, from Nursing and Midwifery to Business Management, Engineering to Art and Design, that there’s no such thing as a typical student day!
Playing an active part in Life at RGU is great for your development, boosts your CV, plus you can meet new people and have a lot of fun too.
Meet some of our students, get a real insight into student life and why they chose RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/learning-facilities:
There are a plethora of art, design and craft facilities for you to experiment and explore your creative potential whilst studying at RGU.
RGU has extensive IT support with a variety of computing labs located on campus.
All the PCs and Macs are equipped with the latest software to support your virtual learning.
RGU boasts a range of modern, purpose-built laboratories and equipment with the latest engineering technology ensuring you always have support to undertake complex and challenging projects.
Located in the heart of the University Campus, the Georgina Scott Sutherland Learning Centre is Robert Gordon University’s newest open study space.
We pride ourselves on giving you access to an abundance of specialised facilities to ensure you get as much hands-on experience to prepare you for the workplace in any health or science professions.
We have a dedicated IT services team on hand to help you with any IT issues whether you’re a student, staff member or visitor to RGU.
You will have access to our innovative Law facilities such as the Moot Court where you can put your debating skills to practice and extensive learning resources including legal databases.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/cost-of-living:
You should budget approximately £55 per week for personal expenses, such as clothes, travel, sports and other social activities, and approximately £50-£60 per week for essential items such as food and toiletries.
For books and stationery, you could expect to spend up to £500 over the academic year.
However, reading materials can often be found at the University’s Library or accessed online through your Campus Moodle account once you are a student.
Don’t forget that with your National Union of Students (NUS) card or with free to register student discount schemes such as UNIDAYS and Student Beans, you can benefit from student discounts and offers in many shops, restaurants and cinemas.
Please note that these amounts are estimates and will vary depending on your course and the social activities you take part in.
*Costs vary in line with inflation out with the University’s control.
These figures are provided as a guide and we encourage you to review actual costs using sites such as Budget and Funding Calculator or UCAS: Managing Money .
These are the estimated lower and upper costs of living in Aberdeen.
The cost of living can vary greatly depending on your lifestyle, budget and spending habits.
These costs are broken down per week or month and you can use this to calculate your estimated budget based on your duration in Aberdeen.
If you are required to pay tuition fees, please note that these costs are not included:
Total per month: £1,157 to £1,480
We are committed to providing safe, secure and affordable accommodation to our students.
Our flats have been designed with students' needs in mind.
We know that there is more to university life than studying, so our flats cater for more than your academic needs.
Each study bedroom is equipped to provide a private place to relax or revise, and each flat contains a communal living area where flatmates and friends can socialise.
Out-of-hours cover is provided at most accommodation sites by RGU’s ResLife Team and they also support students’ wellbeing by planning a comprehensive social calendar of activities and events throughout the year.
We offer standard and en-suite rooms across several convenient locations.
RGU accommodation offers fixed rate prices for the duration of your contract, and includes utility bills and internet costs, thereby offering excellent value for money and an easy way to plan your budget.
Where RGU Accommodation provides a TV in the communal area of the flat, the cost of a TV Licence is covered in your rent.
However, if you intend to use a TV in your own room, or stream on another device, you will need to cover the cost of your own TV licence.
Food costs count for a significant part of your budget.
This will vary on your tastes and dietary needs.
Most major supermarket chains have stores in and around Aberdeen.
Many of these are close to the central area of the city.
Many of these are close to the city centre, or, easily accessible on the main bus routes.
Aberdeen is a cosmopolitan city with many specialist and international shops and restaurants.
Meat, fruit, vegetables, spices and other products from around the world can be found close to the University and throughout the city.
Halal foods and Kosher foods are available from both specialist stores and some larger supermarkets.
When you begin university, there will be some one-off costs to consider.
It is important to plan for these in your budget where necessary.
Depending on your lifestyle and living arrangements there maybe additional costs to consider.
If you are coming to Aberdeen with a family, there will be additional financial considerations you should research.
This includes securing family size accommodation, feeding and clothing dependants, and importantly childcare.
Children generally start school in Scotland between 4 and 5 years old.
The school a child will attend is based on their address and should be taken into consideration when looking at family accommodation in Aberdeen.
Since August 2021, all three and four-year-old children and eligible 2-year olds, are entitled to 1140 funded hours of ELC per year.
This is funding offered by Aberdeen City Council.
Families can access up to 1140 funded hours of ELC at a local authority nursery and from private nurseries, playgroups and childminders in partnership with Aberdeen City Council to deliver high quality ELC.
There are very few ‘pay as you go’ nurseries.
For most a contract is signed with a fixed number of hours each week stated and payment required in advance.
Many also have waiting lists, so this should be investigated prior to beginning your studies.
You can use this online tool to help you plan a budget for your time at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/parents-guardians:
We all know the important role a parent or guardian plays in their loved one’s university experience.
Find key information on how RGU supports students at this crucial time in their lives.
Friends, parents and family members of our students can stay connected and up to date with what’s happening across the RGU community.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8350-future-students-meet-rgu-in-nigeria-and-ghana-this-september:
Saturday 20 September 2025 10:00 - Saturday 27 September 2025 16:00
Location: Various locations in Nigeria and Ghana
Ebele Okebugwu (Eby), RGU’s In-Country Manager for West Africa will be attending a series of agent fairs which will take place across Nigeria and Ghana in September.
If you would like to meet Eby to find out more about studying at Robert Gordon University, please join her at any of these events:
Saturday 20th September, 10.00-16.00
Movenpick Ambassador Hotel, Accra
Thursday 25th September, 10.00 – 16.00
NAF Conference suite, FCT, Abuja
Friday 26th September, 10.00 – 16.00
Venue TBC
Saturday 27th September, 10.00-16.00
Eko Hotel, Victoria Island.
Lagos
Saturday 27th September, 10.00 – 16.00
In addition to this, Ebele will also be available for one to one appointments with interested prospective students on request.
Please email Ebele if you would like to meet her whilst she is in your city.
For more information about this event:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/7920-aberdeen-legal-walk:
Wednesday 08 October 2025 17:00 - 19:30
Location: Aberdeen City Centre
The Access to Justice Foundation funds frontline organisations who help bridge the gap in access to justice, with last year’s Aberdeen Legal Walk raising £671 for the cause.
These charities support some of the most disadvantaged people in our society.
The money raised enables them to understand their legal issues, access their rights, and give them the ability to take back control of their lives.
We are delighted that the walk will be going ahead again this year, and would like to invite you to join us in raising funds for the local legal advice sector.
There will be students and staff from both local universities, as well as members of local law firms, making it a fun occasion and a chance to get involved with Aberdeen’s legal community!
Afterwards, there will be a post-walk reception, which is a fantastic networking opportunity for aspiring legal professionals.
Our walk raises funds for frontline organisations who help bridge the access to justice gap, so even if you can't join us on the day, any donations would be greatly appreciated.
Donations are entirely optional and not mandatory for any walkers wishing to take part!
The Aberdeen Legal Walk is free to attend, but please register beforehand.
If you are from an organisation and are sending multiple members on the walk, please only submit one email as a primary contact point, and forward any communications from us on to those taking part in the walk.
Everyone who signs up will be contacted closer to the time of our walk with more details.
This will include our starting point, route and details of the reception after the walk.
Contact details of our first aid volunteer on the day will also be provided.
If you have any questions or would like support the Aberdeen Legal Walk, please contact us at GCLC@rgu.ac.uk .
For further information about this event, contact:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7738-rgu-launch-vast-55-acre-biodiversity-project:
Wednesday 04 December 2024
Plans are in place to restore Waterside Farm into an area of biodiversity, enhancing the already high carbon-holding capacity of the site, and demonstrating an exemplary approach to land stewardship in a sustainable and ecologically positive manner.
Lying directly opposite RGU’s iconic library tower on the other side of the River Dee, the site offers the University a chance to showcase its green credentials by acting as custodians to a large, carbon-rich environment.
The University aspires to become exemplary conservationists with its plans for a habitat for a range of threatened species, whilst safeguarding this area for the future.
RGU is working alongside environmental consultancy firm The Habitat People to bring it back to its more natural state.
The SRM Foundation has also generously donated £100,000 to help the vision for Waterside Farm become a reality.
Veronica Strachan, University Secretary, and Vice-Principal Corporate Services said: “RGU has a strategic commitment to playing its role in creating a more sustainable future through minimising our environmental footprint and realising our moral purpose for the common good.
Waterside Farm is a great example of the University actively working towards these important environmental goals.
“We are delighted to be working closely alongside The Habitat People on this exciting biodiversity project, which really is a fantastic opportunity to create a site where all kinds of animals and plant life can prosper in the coming years.
“As custodians of this unique site, it is of vital importance that we are proactive and ensure that the area can thrive and inspire the next generation.
Furthermore, I would like to thank the SRM Foundation for their donation which can only help us move forward.”
David Hunter, Chief Executive Officer of The Habitat People, said: “There are some great assets at Waterside Farm already, in terms of the plant life and in terms of the bird life.
We've got several nationally endangered bird species that are breeding here, but there's an awful lot more we can do.
“We've learned that this site used to be part of the river, so we're going to be establishing the wetlands and bringing back what this site may have used to look like 250 years ago, which is very exciting.
“They key outcome for Waterside Farm will be when all manner of species of plants and animals make it their home and begin to thrive.
This is a long-term project, and it is the future generations who will benefit the most from the efforts to make this patch of land a paradise for biodiversity.”
Francesco Mazzagatti, Chief Executive Officer of the SRM Foundation, said: “We are proud to support RGU’s Waterside Farm project, which sets the tone for the kinds of innovative undertakings at the heart of the idea for the SRM Foundation.
“RGU’s vision for the Waterside Farm – to restore the habitat to its original form and bring back the native species and maintain it rather than try to improve it through methods that are not indigenous to the site – are aligned with the SRM Foundation’s overall approach to biodiversity.
“Being the first project for our foundation, we intend to be closely involved in order to document the measurable benefits of restoring a biodiversity site so we can showcase the immense importance of climate philanthropy in the transition to a clean energy economy.”
The restoration of the site includes reintroducing wetlands by adding reedbeds in specific areas of Waterside Farm as well as having controlled flooding in place to allow the reedbeds to mature.
The Habitat People found two main invasive plant species at the site – Himalayan Balsam and Japanese Knotweed.
The former can be removed simply by pulling it out of the ground while the latter requires specialist injection treatment.
Further early groundwork includes the installation of bird boxes which has proven to be successful with a pair of owls nesting at an undisclosed location at Waterside Farm.
The University purchased Waterside Farm, which is just off the South Deeside Road, in 2006.
The area has a long history with military maps showing that in the 1700s the River Dee was a two-stream waterway, while maps produced in the 19th Century show the river was diverted to a single channel as a result of agricultural activity on the site.
In October 2024, RGU held a listening event for local stakeholders to outline the proposals and help strengthen links between the University and the communities around Waterside Farm.
Those in attendance overwhelmingly support Waterside Farm as a natural space and the restoration proposals.
There will be opportunities for people to volunteer at the site as plans develop, with events due to take place on Thursday 12 December and Thursday 19 December.
Anyone who wants to register an interest can email: WatersideFarm@rgu.ac.uk
Main image: Waterside Farm sitting directly opposite RGU's Garthdee campus.
Across all of our academic schools we have embedded sustainability in our curriculum so all of our students are equipped to play their role in tackling challenges as we create a sustainable future together.
RGU is actively working towards a sustainable future, read some of the efforts we are making in that goal.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/alumni-in-focus:
Alumni & Supporters
Magnetised to the cover art of the movies filling his dad’s near-endless DVD collection, the seed for creating visual concepts was planted with Andy Dicks from a young age.
It’s a Saturday night in 1997 and Sheli is sat on the sofa waiting for another instalment of Lycra-clad athletes battling it out on BBC’s Gladiators.
Little did she know, she’d be on that very show in the years to come.
In February 2004, Facebook launched for people to share their narratives of the day.
But over at Gray’s School of Art, plans were in motion for another portfolio of stories to be shared.
A “treasure trove of invaluable experiences” is how she reflects on her 2023 Degree Show.
But the experiences didn’t stop there, Weronika Turowska gives us an update on the road to now.
Tumbling over and grazing your knee, a common past time of our childhood.
But could we have avoided those knocks and bruises?
At her Gray’s Degree Show in 2023, Kirsty Skea explored that very thing
It was an adventure back to his childhood through his Gray’s Degree Show in 2023.
Kartik Suni turns back the clock to tell us about his exhibiting year in our Gray’s Degree Show Q&A.
He moved over from Canada to study Marketing at RGU, but little did he know that he’d be leaving with a content production agency in addition to his degree.
When she was at school, her Wednesday evenings were often spent in her school’s Technology Department in its after-school club.
It was here her passion for STEM started.
Little or large, the value of a gift is priceless.
Whether it’s a donation of time or money, the impact is evergreen.
Now more than ever, the desire to switch off from the world’s noise becomes more pressing.
That idea of escapism is something Laura of Juniper Press has found through her creative process.
What changes can we all make to shape a more inclusive world?
Eilidh Southren (Computer Science, Class of 2019) who shares the “quick wins” to boost equality in all its forms.
What’s the secret to building a successful start-up?
Time, money, passion – the list goes on.
We catch up with a juicing entrepreneur to learn what ingredients are in the blend of their growing brand.
Following the release of 'Conversations', we connected with alum Chris Burnett to delve into his author journey and how his studies at RGU aided his personal project.
Alumni return to campus to share their career insights with students and graduates at to our upcoming career networking events.
Robbie Leith joined our first session and answers our career Q&A.
The CV is updated, the cover letter has been crafted and the hit list of roles is building – the career search is on.
But have you covered everything?
It's a triple alumni-whammy this month as we spotlight three alums working at the National Subsea Centre.
After studying Fashion Design at Gray's School of Art, it didn't take long for Laura Sherriffs to start producing outdoor accessories under her brand Fernweh.
"Even after graduation, the learning never stops,” says 2015 events management alum Emma Grant who now works as assistant director in the events team at Moody’s.
The Gray’s School of Art Masters Degree Show is back for another year and during the show is your chance to see the exhibitions of school’s Graduate in Residence (GiR) exhibitions.
Not knowing what path to take after university can be a daunting and alum Emma Murray assures students that not having your career steps planned can be a blessing.
In any industry, change is inevitable and how you react to change can either make or break a business.
Mark Kemp shares the opportunities evolving industries and careers can bring.
In 2007, Stuart Common stepped through the doors of Mackie's of Scotland for his placement year while studying Management at RGU.
On the publishing of her book ‘Memories from the Frontline’, we caught up with nursing alum Kairen Griffiths to learn more.
As Gray’s Degree Show celebrates its 2023 graduates through the theme Neon Future, we’re stepping back in time with memories from the school’s alumni.
Aberdeenshire artist and illustrator Gabrielle Reith, takes us back to her Gray’s Degree Show in her Q&A blog.
Throughout this week, alumni from Gray’s School of Art are taking us back to their Gray’s Degree Show.
Emmajane Kingaby turns back the clock to her 2022 exhibit.
As the Gray’s Degree Show 2023 opens its doors to the public this week, contemporary art practice alum (Class of 2017) David Iain Brown, shares his degree show memories.
Following his studies in social work (Class of 2012), Ica Headlam paved out a career using his interest in arts and culture to create impactful learning opportunities for young people.
Teamwork makes the dream work they say and a collective of Gray’s School of Art graduates and staff have rallied together to open Aberdeen Ceramics Studio.
The final showcase of this year’s Startup Accelerator is hours away.
Tonight (Thursday 11 May), six of this year’s participants will leave with a share of £30,000 in equity-free funding to make their business dreams a reality.
Bagging your first job off the back of your first interview would be a dream for many graduates, but that was quite the reality for 2022 Business Analytics alum Olasoji Amujo.
Less than a year after her studies at Gray’s School of Art, Pop Portrait artist Leah Davis brings her first post-graduation exhibition to the eyes of the public.
Lecturer in Events, Hospitality and Tourism, Kirstin Bell takes a seat in the Alumni in Focus chair to share her full-circle career journey from events student to lecturer at RGU.
Choosing which university to study at is a big decision, especially if you’re an international student planning an overseas move.
So, you’ve graduated from studying Public Relations at RGU but what does your first year in PR look like?
Nadia Hassan shares her reflections on her year with Muckle Media.
From living in Bangalore to living in Aberdeen, international student Swetha Akshita gives an insight to what international graduates can expect when looking for work in the UK.
Since graduating from RGU in 2012, Jasmin Corbett now spends her days transforming the lives of her clients through her health coaching business Wellthy You.
From “howler” tax implications to career opportunities, the ability to roll with change has been a consistent for 2012 Accountancy and Finance graduate Frazer Nicol.
Lydia Ofori, Founder, CEO and formidable force in the finance industry, is changing how people invest by levelling out the playing field for millennial investors.
Henry Blake, Dragon’s Den contestant and managing director of Scottish company WoodBlocX, studied Architectural Technology at RGU in 2001 and now runs a successful business in the Highlands of Scotland.
Ciarán Russell, Liquid Innovation Manager at Sipsmith Gin in London, graduated from RGU in 2017 with a BSc in Bioscience with Biomedical Science before studying an MSc in Brewing and Distilling at Heriot Watt.
Mostafa Adel, a PhD researcher at the University of Illinois, has over nine years’ experience working with and volunteering for leading international organisations including Save the Children, United Nations Volunteers, GIZ and UNICEF.
Willy Findlater, Architect Alumnus of RGU, graduated from three degree courses in the 70s.
By 1984 he was Director of Architecture on the board of Valtos, an international multi-disciplinary practice.
Matthew Head, Senior Design Engineer for RML Group and Alumnus of RGU, completed an MEng in mechanical and electrical engineering in 2015, on the fast-track Master’s programme.
Anna Smith, alumna and entrepreneur, launched her new book and wine subscription business Words With Wine seven years after graduating and during the global Covid-19 pandemic.
Bethany Galley graduated in 2019 with a BA (Hons) in Communication Design.
Her final year photography project - ‘Through the Lens’, won her the prestigious BP Design Award 2019.
Erin Smith took the bold step of starting her own creative film and video production company, Pink Sphynx Media, straight out of university and during a global pandemic.
Ed Pollock joined RGU as a student of Events Management.
Fast forward nine years and several roles with the university, he’s now Innovation Manager for the RGU Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group.
Rachel Sim started her homeware and soft furnishings business Spruce Homeware in 2020, after graduating into a global pandemic and at a time when employers were not taking on new staff.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/get-in-touch:
If you're an alumni and you have any questions about alumni benefits, fundraising, academic records or you would like to share your experience with our current students, we are happy to speak with you.
We have two important surveys you will be asked to complete following graduation
Update your details anytime after graduation with our online form to make sure you are kept up to date with alumni news, events and exclusive privileges.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/get-involved:
The support of alumni has a significant impact on the experiences students have while studying at RGU.
Alumni can also assist prospective students during the application process.
Supporting our students can benefit you too.
Talk to prospective students online about studying at RGU or by attending one of our Open Days , recruitment fairs or by supporting RGU staff visiting your area.
Could you speak to students to share industry experience or give career advice?
Placements are an essential part of our students' study experience, providing them with valuable insight into industry.
If you would like to offer a placement or to find out more contact placements@rgu.ac.uk
Providing live working projects to RGU students allows businesses to have a real problem managed by students.
Offering graduate opportunities and internships helps our graduates to become a part of the workforce.
For more information on how to recruit contact careers@rgu.ac.uk
A reunion is a great way of catching up with old friends and sharing memories of your university days.
Find out how the Alumni team can help support you:
Share your experiences, advice and career journey with current students and fellow alumni.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/donate:
You can choose to make a one off gift to an area of your choice through our secure online giving form.
A regular direct debit allows you to manage your giving long term, helping RGU to plan for the future.
RGU is proud to be an innovative, impactful and inclusive university supported by alumni and friends.
We appreciate every gift we receive and aim to deliver an excellent donor experience.
Donors and prospective donors can expect to be treated with honesty and transparency at all times.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/supporting-our-alumni:
There are lots of benefits to being an RGU graduate, from career support and professional development to networking opportunities and discounts on course fees.
As a graduate of RGU, you gain more than a degree.
Discover the benefits and services available to alumni of the University.
Your journey beyond graduation is unique to you.
Thankfully, we are with you for the ride.
Undertaking an online RGU short course can help you to develop or change your career or support your business to grow.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/parents-guardians/friends-and-family-community:
Parents & Guardians
The RGU Friends & Family Community welcomes the whole family to be part of the RGU experience, not just students.
While your family member gets stuck into their university experience, we’re taking you along the way too.
As a parent, guardian, friend, supporter or carer, you’re very much part of the mix.
Our Friends & Family Community gives you access to learn more about RGU and the impact it makes locally and globally.
From news about what’s happening here on campus to stories from our global alumni community, you’ll be kept in the know.
As a member of the community, you’ll get:
To join the Friends & Family Community, complete our online form and keep an eye on your inbox for your first communication from us.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/our-history-of-support:
Robert Gordon University owes its name, ethos, concept and estate to generous acts throughout its history.
RGU’s roots can be traced back through its history to generous acts which have transformed the institution into a university that is globally recognised for teaching, research and innovation.
Robert Gordon, a successful merchant and Burgess of the Guild of the City of Aberdeen, willed his entire estate to build a hospital that would educate scholars; a legacy that led to the foundation of Robert Gordon's College and Robert Gordon's Technical College.
A carpenter from the Shire, John Gray, successfully sought his fortune in Aberdeen.
He became a Governor of Robert Gordon's College while his School of Art was being built.
He left a considerable legacy to the school that still bears his name.
An Aberdeen School of Architecture graduate, Thomas Scott Sutherland, donated his house and estate to Robert Gordon's College.
The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture opened in 1957.
The Wood Foundation, a world-renowned philanthropic charity set up by Sir Ian Wood and his immediate family, helped to propel RGU to the forefront of teaching innovation and excellence.
The Foundation’s support of several million pounds over the years has funded numerous projects and initiatives, such as the creation of the RGU Energy Transition Institute in 2014.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/alumni-supporters/about-ethical-giving:
Donors can expect to receive appropriate and timely acknowledgement for their gifts, and to be kept informed of the impact of their philanthropy.
They can be assured that all gifts will be applied for the purpose they were originally given.
All information concerning donations will be handled with respect and confidentiality, to the extent provided by law.
Robert Gordon University is a registered charity.
We aim to encourage philanthropy from individuals, trusts and foundations and corporate bodies to support and enhance the learning, teaching and research at RGU.
We seeks to accept gifts in accordance with CASE (Council for Advancement and Support of Education) guidelines:
RGU has in place a due diligence procedure for gift acceptance.
A detailed gift acceptance policy is available by request.
For further information, or to request a copy of the gift acceptance policy please email service@alumni.rgu.ac.uk to contact Alumni & Fundraising Team.
Anti-bribery and corruption statement
Information governance at Robert Gordon University is composed of three components; Freedom of Information, Environmental Information and Data Protection.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8135-events-students-do-the-double-at-national-awards:
Friday 09 May 2025
Jo Gillespie, Maryam Shahid, Lexy Graham and Anna Paver are all summer graduates of Events Management at RGU having enjoyed a fruitful four-years at the University.
In 2024 the quartet were part of a cohort of students that won at The Scottish Event Awards in Edinburgh for their work on 2023’s Aberdeen Student Festival .
It had raised over £3,000 for Aberdeen Cyrenians and was commended for having wider social, cultural, economic and environmental impacts for the local community.
Now, following a ceremony on Thursday 24 April, the same four have won again – picking up the Best Student-Led Event for 'A Fine Fair' which took place last April.
The event was a huge success, featuring around 500 attendees, a calligraphy and charcuterie workshop and 45 stallholders, and raised over £8k for Erskine Veterans Charity.
Following graduation, Lexy and Anna now work in industry while Jo and Maryam chose to stay at RGU and pursue a master’s in Project Management .
Speaking about her journey through RGU and award success, Jo Gillespie said: "Organising A Fine Fair was a huge milestone for us—it truly pushed us to apply everything we learned in our Events Management courses to a real-world project.
Winning the Best Student Led Event award was an unforgettable moment, and seeing our work recognised alongside national-level events made it even more special.
With the incredible support of our peers, we created something truly unique, and we are absolutely chuffed with the outcome!
“This experience taught us invaluable skills, from supplier relations and stakeholder coordination to team leadership, risk planning, and managing deadlines.
It gave us a real taste of project management in action, and everything we learned has become the cornerstone of our MSc in Project Management.”
The success is further recognition for a course that continues to transform young students into confident, industry-ready graduates with an abundance of vital experience.
Rachael Ironside, Associate Professor at Aberdeen Business School , RGU, said: "We are incredibly proud of our students for being recognised not only once, but twice, at the Scottish Events Award for Best Student-led Event.
“The course challenges students through their live event modules to work with local communities and causes to weave their values and priorities into the event experience.
These awards are a clear recognition of their dedication, hard-work and creativity, producing events in the final two years of their studies that have had real world impacts!".
On both her and Maryam staying on at the University, Jo added: “The transition felt natural, as we built on that foundation and applied our hands-on experience in a more structured, strategic way.
Both our undergrad and postgrad journeys at RGU have been packed with real industry collaboration, which has not only shaped our skills but also made stepping into the professional world feel confident, capable, and genuinely exciting.”
This year’s Aberdeen Student Festival, organised by current stage three students, attracted scores of people to various murder-mystery themed events in the city.
In April, stage four students also organised ‘Kilts ‘n’ Canvas’ at Norwood Hotel to mark a celebration of Scottish culture.
The group raised almost £2,000 for Erskine Veterans Charity.
This BA (Hons) Event Management degree is highly practical and provides you with a perfect blend of core management and specialist event management knowledge and skills to be successful in the industry.
You will have the opportunity to attend guest lectures and events, organise live events and participate in course related study trips.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8022-stunning-aberdeen-denis-law-legacy-concepts-inspired-by-rgu-students:
Wednesday 02 April 2025
The remarkable artworks, situated on a high-rise block off Great Northern Road, will signpost the entrance to ‘Printfield 10 - A Denis Law Legacy Trail’, a concept initially developed by Communication Design alumni Derek McKechnie, which aims to celebrate the area of the city where Denis grew up and help inspire and enhance the local community.
Like the murals, the trail is a predominantly community-led initiative following conceptions by Gray’s School of Art and Denis Law Legacy Trust , the children’s charity based at RGU SPORT which works in partnership with Robert Gordon University (RGU).
The project now also involves the expertise of Fine Day , a creative studio in Aberdeen, and Aberdeen City Council.
It is hoped the trail will be complete within weeks before an official ceremonial opening in May to mark both the murals and the Denis Law Legacy Trail.
Speaking on his involvement, Derek McKechnie, said: "Printfield 10 was a concept that I developed while studying on the Communication Design course at Gray’s School of Art.
The course works closely with Denis Law Legacy Trust, and I wanted to highlight where Denis grew up and celebrate his achievements and enable other people to learn more about his formative years.
“I’m hoping that it will inspire other kids to aim high and be ambitious, even if you come from humble beginnings.
It's been amazing to watch Blank Walls create these stunning murals and see Fine Day from Aberdeen turn the idea of a trail with 10 stop points into reality".
Created by artist Jerome Davenport, founder of street art creators Blank Walls , the murals are 30 metres high and 16 metres wide and span the largest known surface area of its art type in Scotland.
They capture Law in his trademark celebratory pose for both Manchester United and Scotland, symbolizing his incredible achievements, and will stand as a lasting tribute in the heart of the community where his journey began as a young local boy playing in the streets.
His journey to stardom culminated with winning the prestigious Ballon d'Or award in 1964, and he remains the only Scottish footballer to do so.
World renowned street artist Jerome Davenport travelled all the way from Perth, Australia to complete the murals in his signature photorealistic style.
Jerome was assisted by Charlie Kelman, a local street artist who hails from Bucksburn.
Jerome said: “Denis Law’s legacy is more than football, it’s about inspiring future generations, and I hope these murals reflect that.”
Another Communication Design student from Gray’s, Innes Gregory, has been capturing the development of the trail and the mural through documentary and timelapse photography in collaboration with Jerome and Blank Walls.
Innes, a current stage four student at RGU, said: "I first encountered the Denis Law murals and the Printfield 10 project while studying Communication Design at Gray’s.
The concept immediately resonated with me and it was an opportunity to connect with a local legacy project that will inspires generations to come.
“Learning about the Streetsport initiative [the flagship programme of Denis Law Legacy Trust] and its impact in local communities sparked something in me - I knew I wanted to contribute in my own way through photography and film which became my lens to engage with the project, capture its essence, and share the story.
“I’ve been particularly inspired by the course at Gray’s which places emphasis on socially engaged design and reinforces my belief in giving back through creative practice.
My involvement with artist and curator Jerome Davenport, plus his Blank Walls team including local graffiti artist Charlie Kelman, has deepened my appreciation of their work and city’s vibrant street art.”
Innes has also been discovering the Printfield area and meeting with local residents.
"There’s a famous photograph of Denis playing football in the street outside his home with some kids.
Denis had just signed for Manchester United for a British record fee.
Amazingly Jim Gray, who is one of the kids in the photograph, turned up to see how the murals were progressing.
It was great to meet him and hear his stories about Denis.”
RGU’s involvement also continues to include Gray’s School of Art's Mobile Art School .
They teamed up with local residents, including parents, kids and football fans, to help tidy up the area and paint 20 communal bins around the community red and blue to mirror the murals.
They were joined by Colin Leonard from Fine Day and members of the Law family including niece, Debbie, and grandson, Harvey, in addition to members of the Printfield Community Project including Kit Trail, Jim Duncan, Amanda Pirie, and Malcolm Graham.
Ray Downie, Mobile Art School Co-ordinator, was supported by Communication Design Lecturer Marie Simpson and Gray’s first-year student volunteer Katie MacMillan.
He said: “The local residents were looking for some support and we were pleased to help them out.
Everyone really enjoyed the opportunity to get together and have some fun, thanks to everyone who picked up a paintbrush and got involved.”.
Daniel Sutherland, Associate Dean for Economic Social and Cultural Development at Gray’s School of Art said: “We are delighted to see the Printfield 10 project come to fruition.
Gray’s continues to play a key role in local communities through our involvement with Denis Law Legacy Trust.
“Our students have regularly benefited from collaborating and applying their skills within the context of the charity's work and their associated programmes and activities and we are delighted to see significant benefits that this has brought to thousands of local young people directly within their communities".
“RGU is renowned for its participation in this type of activity and was recently recognised through an Engage Watermark Award from the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) which highlights our commitment to public engagement and the positive impact we have made in local communities"
‘Printfield 10 - A Denis Law Legacy Trail’ is supported by UK Shared Prosperity funding and Aberdeen City Council Common Good funding.
The project, which Aberdeen City Council have played a key role in enabling, aims to attract football fans, street art lovers, and visitors to the city who can now walk in the footsteps of a sporting legend and experience a world-class public artwork in the heart of Aberdeen.
Timelapse video credit.
Photography & timelapse footage: Copyright © 2025 Innes Gregory.
All rights reserved; Art work designed and painted by: Jerome Davenport and produced by: Blank Walls; Aerial footage: Luke Boland; Editing & production: Faustus; Music from Soundstripe: Dr Delight - Just Keep it Going; Special thanks to Blank Walls - Alex Harvey and Jerome Davenport, the Printfield and Woodside Community, Denis Law Legacy Trust, Aberdeen City Council and SkyForm.
Our Communication Design course develops your knowledge and understanding of the key disciplines and supports the development of your creative, critical and technical skills necessary to pursue a career in today’s ever-evolving communication design professions across a range of industry sectors.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8018-entrepreneurs-triumph-at-rgu-s-seventh-annual-startup-accelerator:
Thursday 27 March 2025
The University’s flagship entrepreneurial programme culminated in a packed-out final event which included Dragons Den-style pitches before nine prizes were awarded to those who most impressed the judges and live audience.
The big winner on the night was That Conversations Movement, an inspiring start-up created by Chris Burnett that encourages intentional conversations between people.
His entry has already attracted many friends, partners and families to events, and he ultimately won both the Community Impact Award and the Audience Award, taking home a total of £13,000.
On his triumph, Chris couldn’t hide his delight: “I’m absolutely buzzing to be fair.
This has been a fantastic programme.
I came into it having started a business but not really sure what to make of it in terms of the impact we were trying to achieve, but the Accelerator has really helped to get to grips with what we want to do as a business.
Tonight is a combination of a lot of really good lessons and to walk away with two prizes is hard to believe really.
“The real next step is to establish ourselves in locations we're already in.
We're running events and the hardest thing about events is to get the word out beyond the people we know.
The money will go a long way towards helping with that marketing effort.”
InGlaze, already £50,000 winners in this year’s Scottish EDGE competition earlier in March, won an additional £5,000 here in the SRM Foundation Innovation Award.
The local firm has created magnetic secondary glazing that are affordable and easily adjustable for windows of all types.
Luci Carey, Co-founder, said they hoped to continue to receive mentorship and training at RGU while also tackling the task at hand.
Asked on what’s next for the InGlaze, she added: “Basically, we start working next week!”
Elsewhere, IM Innovation won £5,000 through the Felix Chung Sustainability Award having invented a retrofitted device that uses AI visual recognition and machine learning to address and reduce food waste in commercial kitchens.
Cohort participants were judged by Donella Beaton, Vice Principal for Economic Development at RGU; Mohan Fernando, Chief Executive Officer at the Informatics Institute of Technology (IIT), a transnational enterprise (TNE) partner of RGU’s, who travelled from Sri Lanka to attend; and Shehan Heguragamage, previous Accelerator participant and Co-founder of Archilink.
Speaking on the night, Donella Beaton said: “Each year the participants of our Startup Accelerator programme continue to amaze us with their entrepreneurial mindset and inspiring commitment to the process and their business ideas.
“This year’s cohort embodies the University’s strategic mission to transform people and communities with their creative and forward-thinking innovations.
Congratulations to each of them for successfully completing the near five-month programme and particularly to tonight’s award winners.
I look forward to watching ideas become a reality here in Aberdeen as we strive to continue stimulating the economic prosperity of the North East.”
Other winners at the Showcase included Juan McKenzie of Poseidon Rescue who took home both Best Pitch Award and the ‘Extra Mile’ Award.
He has invented an autonomous life saving system with the aim of drastically reducing accidental water incidents.
The event began with a video address from Kirsty McNeill MP, Parliamentary Under-Secretary (Scotland Office), who highlighted Scotland’s proud and rich history of being at the forefront of entrepreneurialism while thanking RGU for the role it plays in contributing to the government’s number one mission of economic growth.
The Showcase marked a celebration of Scotland’s entrepreneurial ecosystem with a particular focus on space.
A panel that included Anastatia Mayers, the youngest woman to have gone to space; Peter Anderson, Chief Commercial Officer at AAC Clyde Space; and Dr Hina Khan, Head of Commercial at Craft Prospect discussed the nation’s growing involvement in the sector.
The year’s programme received a financial boost following successful funding from the UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF) through Aberdeen City Council.
Funding enabled substantial prize money to be awarded to participants who applied from across the North East, and wider.
The only limitation for this year’s cohort was that their business ideas must be focused on starting up in Aberdeen, driving the local economy and putting faith in the region.
RGU, through its Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group (EIG) and other initiative interdisciplinary collaborations, has integrated entrepreneurialism across its education and embedded it within curriculum – ensuring all of its students and staff are given both the knowledge and freedom to express their creativity and put ideas into practice.
Full list of awards and winners:
All images are credit to Ray Smith
Turn your idea into a viable business through our Startup Accelerator Programme offering training, mentorship, incubation space and opportunities for funding.
16 early-stage innovators are currently rehearsing their Dragon’s Den style pitch as they envisage standing in front of a packed audience, ready to grasp their opportunity of sealing that next big entrepreneurial step.
Being entrepreneurial is a foundational skill for the future, and our economy relies on the creativity, ingenuity and ambition of founders.
Through our accelerators, programmes, resources and events – we help aspiring entrepreneurs from every discipline explore and launch new ventures.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-projects:
Research
Search through past and present Research Projects in out Research Repository - OpenAir

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/our-research-degrees:
RGU is committed to high quality, interdisciplinary, and internationally recognised research that impacts real-world challenges.
Our research degree titles reflect the broad expertise of our academic staff, with whom you can discuss how to shape these ideas into doctoral research that reflects your interests and ambitions.
A doctoral research project is a big commitment.
However, you will be highly supported by our dedicated Graduate School, with subject expertise from your supervisory team, and by a welcoming international community of over 300 doctoral students.
RGU delivers high-quality experiences for all students, developing their skills and expertise, and supporting them well into employment.
We hope you find something of interest in our research degree pages and that this can be the beginning of a conversation with you, leading to the start of your PhD journey at RGU.
Supporting early career development with postgraduate research RGU’s research culture has been voted the ‘best in the country’ according to a national survey of postgraduate research students.
Read More on RGView
Undertaking a research degree is a fantastic and exciting opportunity.
Find out about the available topics you can study with our support.
Our 2022-2028 research strategy sets out our ambitions to drive high-quality research that addresses both regional and global challenges.
Our research spans four interdisciplinary themes that combine expertise from across the University, providing a unique platform for collaboration between researchers to deliver innovative research that makes real impact to society.
A Master of Research (MRes) degree enhances your employability by providing specialised skills and research experience, making you more competitive in the job market and supporting your career ambitions.
Apply for our exciting research degrees on a wide variety of topics and themes.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-revealed:
Research Revealed brings our research to life through engaging and informative videos, articles, and multimedia content.
Join us on a journey of discovery as we explore the world-changing research at RGU, where our academics and researchers make a real difference in the world through their cutting-edge work.
At RGU, we believe that research should advance knowledge and have a tangible impact on society, the environment, and the economy.
We're proud to showcase our latest discoveries and innovations through Research Revealed.
Research Revealed, S02E02: Young people’s mental health should be a priority for society The latest Research Revealed shines the spotlight on young people's mental health and the higher rates of mental health disorders experienced by children involved with Child Protection Services.
Research Revealed, S02E01: Improving access to service charities for female veterans Vital research from Robert Gordon University (RGU) has helped lead to the creation of a new £200,000 government fund which will support female veterans who have suffered sexual trauma while serving in the military.
Research Revealed, S01E04: How Artificial Intelligence is helping people manage back pain The fourth episode of Research Revealed looks at how Artificial Intelligence (AI) is helping people suffering with low back pain manage their condition.
Research Revealed, S01E03: Left Hungry The third episode of Research Revealed explores the hidden nature of maternal and infant food insecurity amongst young mothers in the North East and across the UK.
RGU research shows growing problems of food insecurity amongst young mothers RGU led research shows that  young mothers in the North East of Scotland are experiencing increasing levels of poverty and food insecurity, that have got worse since the Covid pandemic.
Research Revealed, S01E02: Falling Out of Love with the UK Episode two of Research Revealed shines a light on the impact that Brexit and lockdowns have had on people in the UK.
Represented visually through art, it provides a powerful insight into the emotional wellbeing of EU citizens in modern day UK and Europe.
Leading RGU research aims to solve global drinking water shortage Robert Gordon University (RGU) has launched a new video series to help showcase the breadth of high impact research that is being undertaken throughout the University.
Research Revealed, S01E01: Clean Water, Green Future Episode one of Research Revealed highlights RGU's School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, focusing on a research project to tackle the global issue of a lack of safe, reliable drinking water.
In it, lead researchers to discuss the intricacies of the project, who's involved and how natural, existing material could be key to helping millions of people.
The latest Research Revealed shines the spotlight on young people's mental health and the higher rates of mental health disorders experienced by children involved with Child Protection Services.
Vital research from Robert Gordon University (RGU) has helped lead to the creation of a new £200,000 government fund which will support female veterans who have suffered sexual trauma while serving in the military.
The fourth episode of Research Revealed looks at how Artificial Intelligence (AI) is helping people suffering with low back pain manage their condition.
The third episode of Research Revealed explores the hidden nature of maternal and infant food insecurity amongst young mothers in the North East and across the UK.
RGU led research shows that  young mothers in the North East of Scotland are experiencing increasing levels of poverty and food insecurity, that have got worse since the Covid pandemic.
Episode two of Research Revealed shines a light on the impact that Brexit and lockdowns have had on people in the UK.
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has launched a new video series to help showcase the breadth of high impact research that is being undertaken throughout the University.
Episode one of Research Revealed highlights RGU's School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, focusing on a research project to tackle the global issue of a lack of safe, reliable drinking water.
How will rising food prices affect the health of our society?
What’s the lasting impact of COVID-19 on our wellbeing?
Should we still be aiming for ‘five a day’ to stay healthy?

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-office:
Please email research@rgu.ac.uk and a member of the team will be in touch.
Researchers at Robert Gordon University are provided with a supportive environment for their work and a clear framework which facilitates the Research Strategy of the University.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/national-subsea-centre:
Accelerating the Energy Transition Through Smart Technologies Applied to Industrial Challenges
The NSC is harnessing the university’s academic expertise, research capability and facilities to establish a world-class research and development centre.
The NSC aims to develop smart digital and engineering technologies to enable a faster, more cost-effective and sustainable transition to a net zero energy basin, locally in the North Sea and globally in energy environments.
The spacious, state-of-the-art centre is designed to make sure team members and visitors alike have everything they need to help maximise their skills in all fields of work.
Facilities at the NSC are a national resource and an important aspect of its unique place in the UK research infrastructure.
Facilities include a spacious warehouse, large yard space, innovation hub, conference room and an open plan breakout area.
At present, the NSC is focused on four core research programmes:
The Transparent Ocean programme aims to develop cutting-edge capability to detect, monitor and understand subsea and marine activities, including condition of supporting infrastructures and surrounding environments, using the full range of state-of-the-art platforms and sources for data acquisition, visualisation, analysis, interpretation and prediction.
The Transparent Ocean research programme is led by Professor Jinchang Ren.
The Integrated Energy programme aims to develop cutting edge capability to design, model, evaluate and construct an integrated marine energy grid to support the transition to decarbonised energy, using smart materials, digital twins, robotics and mixed energy vector power systems.
The Integrated Energy research programme is led by Professor James Njuguna.
The Net Zero Operations programme aims to develop leading edge capability to reduce carbon emissions, resource consumption and environmental footprint of marine industry operations using digital twins, machine learning and optimisation for operations planning and management, workforce transition planning and supply chain redesign.
The Net Zero Operations research programme is led by Dr.
Ciprian Zavoianu.
The Cyber-Physical System programme aims to develop cutting edge capability to maintain and protect equipment, assets and infrastructures of marine industry through the convergence of operational and information technologies by seamless integration of physical components with modern computation, control and automation algorithms.
The Cyber-Physical Systems research programme is led by Dr.
Andrei Petrovski.
These ambitious and innovative programmes are delivered through interdisciplinary research projects which address complex industry challenges and are periodically reviewed and adapted to ensure continued relevance to emerging technical developments and industrial needs.
Team members work collaboratively to find innovative solutions to industry challenges in an environment where positive disruptive thinking is encouraged.
All research undertaken at the NSC is driven by leaders with expertise spanning the fields of data science and AI, optimisation and machine learning, digital twins and simulation, machine vision and remote sensing, techno-economic modelling, smart materials and manufacturing, robotics, renewable energy systems and decarbonisation, marine ecosystems and sustainable environment modelling.
This work is only made possible with the support of the NSC’s dedicated Operations teams which include Administration, Marketing & Communications and Business Development.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/rgu-orkney:
RGU’s work in Orkney is truly interdisciplinary working across the university in partnership with the local community.
Based at the Orkney Research and Innovation Campus in the town of Stromness, RGU Orkney focuses on remote, rural and island perspectives supporting a broad range of research, teaching and entrepreneurship activities.
Themes include health and wellbeing, transport, built environment, digital heritage, creative business, the graduate apprenticeship programme, and the Arctic.
Working in partnership with local stakeholders our objectives are:
RGU has a strong commitment to collaboration, co-production and partnership with local stakeholders.
These relationships are key to the success of RGU in Orkney and are vital to our future ambitions ensuring economic, teaching and learning, and research initiatives aligned to local priorities.
RGU Orkney will hold various events throughout the year.
If there are none currently listed, or you would like to hold an event, please get in touch with the team.
Event Starts: Monday 13 October 2025 Developing Cross-cultural Rural Entrepreneurial Ecosystems in the North Atlantic Aberdeen Business School and RGU Orkney are delighted to welcome Lisa Luken from University of Southern Maine, USA, to share her insight into Cross-cultural entrepreneurship in rural entrepreneurial ecosystems in the North Atlantic.
Download our full strategy and the RGU Research Magazine, featuring RGU Orkney:
RGU Orkney 2023-2028
RGU Research Magazine Issue 2 2023
Read the full article on RGU news:
Contact Elsa Cox, RGU Orkney Development Manager, via email:
Graduate Apprenticeships provide fully-funded structured training to degree level for employees – a great way to mould new recruits from the outset and/or upskill your staff to make your business more productive.
Elsa Cox, Development Manager at RGU Orkney, has been setting out some of the work taking place at the University's island base through a blog for University Alliance...
COIL@UArctic is a future-focused, globally connected, virtual learning strategy for UArctic members and partner institutions with a focus on biodiversity education and other issues, important to the North.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-governance:
At Robert Gordon University our research governance structures aim to support good research practice and quality of research.
Animal research strategy for RGU
Download a copy of the latest policy document.
(PDF 1.86MB)

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-publications:
Our research publications are searchable in our OpenAir Repository.
The new RGU Research Magazine is an exclusively online and interactive publication which intends to highlight the latest developments in research and innovation at the University.
Inside you’ll find captivating stories, videos, and insights from a range of different schools and academics.
RGU Research Magazine Issue 4 2024 PDF - 3MB DOWNLOAD RGU Research Magazine Issue 3 2024 PDF - 4MB DOWNLOAD RGU Research Magazine Issue 2 2023 PDF - 1MB DOWNLOAD RGU Research Magazine Issue 1 2023 PDF - 2MB DOWNLOAD
If you have any news or feedback for the Communications team regarding the new RGU Research Magazine, please contact them via rgucommunications@rgu.ac.uk
OpenAIR is the Robert Gordon University Open Access Institutional Repository.
Operational since 2006, it contains the full text of high quality research publications produced by staff and research students at RGU.
The content includes:
A full list of the types of content is available in the repository policy .
OpenAIR enables the University’s researchers to meet the Open Access requirements of funders and the REF, reinforced by the University’s own Open Access mandate
Publications and other research outputs can be added to OpenAIR after being recorded in the “Outputs” module of Worktribe, the University’s research information system.
The Publications Team provide training for researchers on how to use Worktribe Outputs.
A list of upcoming training sessions is available online:
RGView connects the University through stories of collaboration, innovation, and ambition to celebrate strategic achievements and recognise success.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8351-developing-cross-cultural-rural-entrepreneurial-ecosystems-in-the-north-atlantic:
Monday 13 October 2025 10:00 - 12:30
Location: H230, Ishbel Gordon Building
The landscapes and livelihoods of people in the northern high latitudes are being altered by climate variability and socio-economic shifts, causing distinctive consequences at local and regional levels.
The ability to adapt to these shifts challenges cultural, social, and economic systems across Northern regions, especially those in rural and island communities.
These types of challenges are being explored by an interdisciplinary team of faculty and student researchers from the University of Southern Maine in the United States, the Maine-Greenland Collaboration , through multiple studies conducted over the past five years in Greenland, Iceland, Maine, and other Northern regions.
Join Lisa Luken , a Ph.D.
candidate and research assistant who has worked on these projects for the past four years, to learn about these projects, including those centred on the experiences of sheep farmers in Greenland, Iceland, and Maine, and one exploring cross-cultural exchanges and ecosystem development of North Atlantic wool entrepreneurs.
Findings highlighting perspectives of community members who are adapting to the broader shifts in their regions will be shared, as will considerations for economic development and policy initiatives in these types of regions.
Opportunities for future studies and collaborations will also be noted, followed by a question-and-answer session.
The talk, co-organised by ABS and RGU Orkney , is free to attend and open to wider RGU community and partners, especially those looking to learn more about economic, social and cultural sustainability and entrepreneurship in rural and island communities, and those whose interests lie in the North.
Cost to attend: free

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/workforce-development:
Register Interest
Business & Innovation
At RGU, we offer a variety of courses on campus, on-site, online or by combination to support you and your team.
Whether you are looking for short courses  or postgraduate qualifications, to understand innovative industry processes or gain new skills we have the right industry-approved course or the ability to provide bespoke courses to suit your needs.
Our economic development is internationally recognised for its expertise in workforce analysis and skills planning for the energy sector.
For more information about workforce development courses available or how we can support you and your team, contact business@rgu.ac.uk
RGU Knowledge Bites for Business provides thoughts and insights to help individuals and businesses at this challenging time.
We’ve helped clients to test processes, create new products, upskill their workforce, introduce better practices, turn data into knowledge, engage with new communities and a lot more.
Sonatrach in Algeria came to RGU looking to develop its workforce.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/developing-your-ideas:
In a rapidly changing world, where knowledge is king and time is of the essence, how does your company visualise and plan for the future?
We work with organisations every day, and have done for decades.
We listen to your challenges and, together, we find solutions.
Test-run your future projects; assess your inventions, explore your data and use our assets.
Our facilities are ranked in the UK’s top three.
(The Times Higher Education UK Student Experience Survey 2016)

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/finding-talent:
Our courses are designed with a strong emphasis on practical experience and professional accreditation, ensuring that our students are well-prepared to meet the needs of your business.
By collaborating with RGU, you gain access to:
If you are interested in working with the university or simply want to find out where to start in finding the right option for you, get in touch with our team.
Promote graduate roles, part-time jobs, summer internships, and placements on our job search platforms, enhancing your visibility among RGU students and alumni.
Meet potential candidates face to face at one of our recruitment or careers fairs and events.
Offer academic credit-bearing placements and projects that provide students with real-life experience while benefiting your organisation.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/innovation-rgu:
Become an entrepreneur with five months of training, mentorship, incubation space and access to funding and turn your idea into a high-growth venture in the North East.
Take the first steps to develop a new entrepreneurial idea of venture by accessing our free online toolkit of resources, topics, masterclasses and more.
Book to attend our events or gain skills by visiting the toolkit on CampusMoodle.
Keep updated on all of our activities, events, updates and startup stories by subscribing to our mailing list to get email digests a few times a month.
Being innovative is critical for the success of our society and our university.
Through training programmes, events, and projects, we want to be a catalyst for curiosity and support the university to think differently, experiment with ideas, challenge norms and evolve to become a leading institution ready for the future.
Drawing on hands-on learning and innovation through tailored programmes that foster entrepreneurial mindsets across the islands to boost growth, investment and jobs through accelerator schemes, mentorship programmes and community networks.
Meet the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group who are responsible for supporting the development of new businesses and inspiring innovation at RGU.
We're driving change in the future of work.
Preparing our students, staff & alumni to be entrepreneurs, innovators and change makers of tomorrow.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/facilities-for-business:
Strategic and technical advice, new thinking, transforming data into knowledge.
Together we’ll plan your co-ordinated path towards the difference you want to make.
The fully-functioning Cyber Security Laboratory is air-gapped for isolation and contains specialised hardware and software, allowing your business to test their cyber safety.
The School of Computing, Engineering and Technology has an impressive range of equipment within the Engineering Testing facility - fully supported by technical expertise and specialist knowledge – to help you resolve your company’s challenges.
A custom built, professional filming space.
DART Centre of Excellence Simulation Facilities operate under the RGU Energy Transition Institute and includes a Drilling and Wells Simulator and a Decommissioning Simulator.
RGU has an extensive range of event facilities available for your business to hire.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/business-innovation/contact-business-and-innovation:
Contact our dedicated team at RGU and find out how we can support you.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8337-an-evening-with-jamie-genevieve-and-grace-beverely-ultimate-masterclass-festival:
Tuesday 16 September 2025 19:30
Location: The Music Hall
As proud sponsors of this Ultimate Masterclass Event, we are excited to welcome two of the UK’s most dynamic young business leaders, Jamie Genevieve and Grace Beverley, to our city of Aberdeen.
These are not conventional entrepreneurs.
With millions of followers and multi-million-pound brands, Jamie and Grace have redefined what it means to build a business in the digital age.
Their success fuses authenticity with strategy, creativity with community, and purpose with high performance – a mindset that echoes RGU’s own commitment to innovation, ambition, and real-world impact.
From their early days on YouTube and Instagram to becoming founders of globally recognised companies and Forbes 30 Under 30 alumni, their journeys are remarkable.
But they’re also refreshingly real, candid about the challenges, the lessons, and the resilience required to grow something from the ground up.
At RGU, we believe in empowering the next generation of creators, entrepreneurs, and leaders.
That’s why we’re proud to support this unmissable event – a chance for students, side-hustlers, professionals and founders alike to learn, be inspired, and leave fired up to take the next step.
Expect unfiltered stories, actionable insights, and a serious shot of entrepreneurial energy.
Don’t miss your opportunity to be part of an evening that could change the way you think about business, ambition and what’s possible.
Cost to attend: £30
If you have any questions about this event, contact:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8323-rgu-appoints-team-to-drive-entrepreneurship-across-scotland-s-island-communities:
Friday 11 July 2025
The Islands Entrepreneurship Network was established as part of the TalEntEd Islands Programme to accelerate net zero solutions, address demographic challenges and drive inclusive innovation across the three Island groups, supported by up to £5.9 million of joint investment from the Scottish Government and the UK Government through the Islands Growth Deal.
The TalEntEd programme unites three leading universities, RGU, Heriot-Watt University, and the University of the Highlands and Islands, to deliver tailored work-based learning, entrepreneurship pathways and innovation-commercialisation grants to spark sustainable economic growth.
Working alongside local communities and stakeholders, RGU has assembled a dedicated islands-based team to draw upon the institution's expertise and experience, particularly in rural communities, to deliver a suite of programmes aimed at stimulating entrepreneurship, supporting existing small and medium-sized enterprises and fostering the creation of new ventures.
The team of three includes Naomi Macdonald, who has been appointed Programme Manager and will be based in the Western Isles; she previously served as Senior Development Worker for the Young Islanders Network at Youth Scotland.
Naomi will be supported by Kirsteen Stewart, a fashion and design entrepreneur who works with Creative Orkney and joins as Programme Co-ordinator based in Orkney and, Maria Bell, founder of Mesomorphic and Silicon Croft, and a judge and mentor on RGU’s flagship startup accelerator programme, now in its 9th year, who takes up the role of Programme Co-ordinator in Shetland.
Naomi Macdonald, Programme Manager for the Islands Entrepreneurship Network, said: “Being part of this specialised team feels like the start of something truly transformative for the future of our islands.
There’s so much untapped potential here, and with support specifically tailored to the unique challenges of island life, we can help create businesses that are rooted in community, resilience and innovation.”
Chris Moule, Head of Entrepreneurship and Innovation at RGU, said: “RGU has invested in supporting entrepreneurship across the region, helping students, staff and graduates to start over 250 new ventures, with many coming from under-represented groups.
We’ve had great success with programmes such as our Startup Accelerator, Women in Business and Creative Entrepreneurship, and look forward to working with Island communities to evolve them and foster a vibrant community of entrepreneurs.
“The network aims to harness local talent, strengthen entrepreneurial ecosystems and create new opportunities for innovation and collaboration.
We have brought together a highly accomplished team to deliver the programme, and they look forward to making a real impact by harnessing the talents and skills across the communities to build new ventures, create new jobs and contribute positively to the economic, social and cultural fabric of the three Island groups.”

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8070-new-rgu-appointment-to-empower-digital-tech-entrepreneurship:
Wednesday 16 April 2025
Phil Murray, an entrepreneur, investor, and digital innovation leader with a track record of building and scaling technology businesses, has secured funding through the Royal Society’s Entrepreneur in Residence scheme where he will work closely with the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group (EIG) and key initiatives such as the University’s soon to be launched Digital Innovation Lab.
Already a judge and mentor on RGU’s Startup Accelerator programme and a member of the Board of Governors, Phil Murray is familiar with the University and will work to enhance and empower the entrepreneurialism that continues to be embedded within the culture and long-term strategy of the institution.
On his appointment, Phil said: “I am delighted to be appointed as an Entrepreneur in Residence at Robert Gordon University and look forward to working on initiatives such as the Digital Innovation Lab and with the staff and students across the University.
“My mission here is to create a model that supports and importantly empowers both the current and the next generation of entrepreneurs.
Entrepreneurship is key in so many ways and I hope to show that what we do can sustainably enhance global living standards.”
Donella Beaton, Vice Principal for Economic Development, added: “Phil Murray brings a wealth of experience to Robert Gordon University, particularly in the commercialisation of digital technologies and in exploring new models of engagement around strategic investment.
This will bring a new dimension to our existing healthy culture of curiosity, entrepreneurialism and ambition that is fostered here.
“Our latest outstanding Startup Accelerator Showcase, in addition to this success in receiving Entrepreneur in Residence funding, is testament to our commitment in this field and I look forward to RGU putting our exciting plans into practice.”
As the founder and former CEO of Petrotechnics, Phil led the development of innovative operational risk management software, adopted by some of the world’s largest companies.
Under his leadership, Petrotechnics earned the prestigious European Growth Strategy of the Year award before successfully exiting to a major American software corporation.
Phil’s entrepreneurial spirit saw him start a university spin-out in the United States, and he continues to exhibit great enthusiasm for developing productive links between business and education.
He also invests in and advises on several start-ups and emerging technology companies.
The Entrepreneur in Residence (EiR) scheme was founded in 2017, by the Royal Society , to strengthen links between academia and industry by embedding experienced entrepreneurs in UK academic research institutions.
The programme helps researchers translate cutting-edge science into real-world innovation by providing mentorship, industry insights, and commercial expertise.
EiRs spend one day per week at their host university, supporting staff and students in developing entrepreneurial skills, fostering collaborations, and accelerating the creation of spinout companies and commercial partnerships.
With funding of up to £25,000 per year for two years, the scheme plays a vital role in bridging the gap between research and commercialisation, ensuring that scientific discoveries can benefit society.
By strengthening academic-industry connections, the programme contributes to the UK’s innovation ecosystem and helps turn breakthrough ideas into impactful enterprises.
Sir Robin Saxby FREng FRS, Chair of the Royal Society’s Science, Industry and Translation Committee, said: “The Royal Society is delighted to welcome this year’s new cohort of Entrepreneurs in Residence, who bring an inspiring range of expertise and vision.
The EiR programme plays a vital role in strengthening the links between cutting-edge research, commercial expertise, and real-world impact.
The programme helps the application of scientific excellence to meet customer needs, enabling innovation that benefits society.
We can’t wait to see the impact our new EiRs create over the next two years.”

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/courses:
Browse the full list of available courses here.
Alternatively you can use the search facility

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/apply/access-rgu/access-rgu-applicants:
ACCESS RGU
ACCESS RGU coordinates a range of activities that provide support and guidance for applicants from under-represented groups.
Every dream is possible.
This is your future.
RGU is committed to widening participation to extend access to learning and enable talented individuals from under-represented groups, particularly those from deprived areas, to achieve their ambitions through higher education, whatever their circumstances.
This includes 1-1 advice and guidance, by phone and email, throughout the application stage through to enrolment.
Depending on your circumstances, you may be eligible to receive additional financial assistance and support.
The widening access team at RGU can provide financial support to eligible students from widening access backgrounds to help contribute towards the travel costs to attend university Open Days or Discovery Days .
Check you qualify for partial reimbursement of travel costs via our webpage or email email access@rgu.ac.uk including your name and home postcode.
Only applications for travel support received and approved before an Open Day or Discovery Day will be considered.
ACCESS RGU Travel Support Fund 2025
Applicants who meet our widening access criteria will also be invited to apply for an ACCESS RGU Scholarship .
These scholarships have been made available through the generosity of our donor companies and are accessible to students who demonstrate academic merit, motivation and ambition.
As well as financial commitment, the scholarships will include tailored support from ACCESS RGU and the Study Skills Team.
Check if you qualify as a widening access applicant and live in an SIMD20 postcode (Quintile 1), on the Scottish Government's website:
If your home is in a SIMD20 area it will display in red.
If you’re unsure whether you are eligible for support, or if you have any other questions, please contact us on 01224 263048 or email access@rgu.ac.uk .
Keep up to date with all things RGU related including exciting course changes, news and events!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/visit-us/rgu-discovery-days:
Our Discovery Days are your chance to explore our state-of-the-art facilities, meet course leaders and chat to our current students to find out more about your selected course and get a first-hand experience of life on campus.
Our Discovery Day events have now passed, keep an eye on the website for information about future events.
You can also experience our stunning riverside campus and speak to current students by attending one of our Campus Visits or by joining us at an upcoming event:
Our Discovery Day events are filled with informative presentations, interactive sessions and workshops, campus tours and the opportunity to speak to our staff and current students to learn more about what university life is like.
Want to know what to expect at our next Discovery Day?
Download the timetable to find out what's happening during the day:
RGU Discovery Day Timetable - 10 May 2025
Visitors who meet Wider Access criteria and live out with Aberdeen City who attend Discovery Days are eligible to claim back a proportion of their travel costs from the Access RGU Travel Support Fund.
Please contact access@rgu.ac.uk in advance of the event date with your name, home postcode and the event you plan on attending.
Check if you qualify:
If you have any questions, or would like to discuss anything further, please do not hesitate to get in touch with us:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/visit-us/campus-visits:
Can’t make one of our on campus Open Days, or would prefer to attend something on a smaller scale?
We’ll be running our popular campus visits weekly throughout the year.
These tours provide you with the opportunity to visit our stunning riverside campus and speak to our current students.
You will be welcomed on arrival by our Student Ambassadors who will guide you around our beautiful riverside campus, including the library and RGU SPORT.
Throughout your visit, feel free to ask them any questions about student life, support services and our facilities.
If you have any mobility requirements, please let your guide know and a suitable alternative route can be taken if needed.
Should you wish to explore further, there will also be a student flat available for viewing in our Woolmanhill Student Accommodation Flats.
You will need to make your own way to the accommodation and the viewing will be undertaken by a member of the accommodation team, there is no need to book.
We hope you enjoy your visit!
If you have any questions, please contact visit@rgu.ac.uk
Join RGU and see where we can take you.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/life-at-rgu/parents-guardians/parent-guardian-information:
Robert Gordon University is recognised as a top university in Scotland for its high quality teaching, applied learning, strong industry links, state-of-the-art facilities and demand driven courses.
All of this ensures that our students will have a fantastic experience at university, while gaining the knowledge and skills required for a successful career.
Applications for undergraduate courses are made through UCAS.
The application cycle opens in September each year, for admission to study the following September.
Applications are encouraged to be submitted by January of the year intended study will begin, however the cycle remains open until the end of June each year.
After that, applications can be submitted through “Clearing” the final point of the application cycle that allows new applications to be submitted once your child/dependant receives their exam results in August.
At RGU, we understand that every student’s journey is different and we are committed to ensuring that support is available when it is needed.
We’re proud to be 3 rd in Scotland for student support (The Mail University Guide 2025).
A student's tuition fee status and the level of tuition fee that is paid is determined by nationality, the country in which a student is ‘ordinarily resident’ and other relevant criteria.
On campus, our students can take full advantage of first-class facilities as well as beautiful green open spaces.
Leaving home for the first time can be one of the most exciting things about going to university, but we know you might need some reassurance that your loved one will be safe and supported.
We provide accommodation for 900 students at 5 different purpose-built developments situated in the city centre and around campus, as well as working closely with student accommodation providers in the private sector.
Students staying in RGU accommodation will have access to 24/7 welfare support from the RGU ResLife team.
We understand that ensuring your loved one can afford to live comfortably while at university is a huge factor in making decisions about where to study.
If your loved one is ready to start their journey at RGU, you can come along to a Campus Visit, register an interest or apply to join us in September 2025 now.
Our Student Recruitment team is on hand to answer any questions you have about supporting your child/dependant through university:
For regular updates on the latest news and events, follow the Student Recruitment team on X (formerly Twitter) .
You can also sign up to receive regular updates in our Parents & Guardians mailing list:
Download our full guide:
RGU Parent & Guardian Guide
RGU Talk is the official podcast of Robert Gordon University, featuring interviews with academics, students, staff and alumni on a wide range of engaging topics.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgusport:
Our Learn to Swim programme is currently offering group swimming lessons.
Our Climbing programme offers Learn to climb and club sessions for beginners, intermediate and advanced climbers.
RGU SPORT is home of over 30 sports clubs ranging from football to curling, weightlifting to cheerleading.
Everyone is welcome whether you are looking to try something new or are a high level, performance athlete.
Find out when we're open, and what's happening here each day, along with information about entry or hire costs for your activities.
We offer an extensive range of memberships, as well as promotional memberships throughout the year.
Explore RGU SPORT's facilities before visiting in person through our new Virtual Tour.
We host a range of classes suitable for all abilities and interests, whatever your goals are we have something for everyone.
Recreational activities are fun activities which combine physical activity and socialising together to provide a fun and inclusive environment to all participants that attend.
We offer scholarships and programmes for promising athletes.
RGU SPORT offer a number of courses in professional qualifications such as NPLQ (Gen 10).
If you're looking to try something new, why not try our Learn to Climb courses?
Our Learn to Swim programme currently  offers group swimming lessons for all ages and abilities from 3 years and above to help you develop the fundamental swim skills required to be able to enjoy swimming for life.
Streetsport was launched by Gray’s School of Art and RGU Sport and is delivered in partnership with the Denis Law Legacy Trust.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/finance-funding/funding-and-scholarships-search:
View A-Z of all funding & scholarships

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/finance-funding/how-to-pay:
Finance & Funding
You can make payment to the University via our Flywire student's platform.
The way you pay and how much depends on where you are from.
There are instalment payment options  for International and self funding students.
For part time and online learning courses, payment can be divided into instalments.
Receiving sponsorship from a company or other organisation?
Find out what you need to do.
New students will be asked to arrange payment of fees during online enrolment.
Robert Gordon University has approved procedural guidelines regarding refunds of tuition fees and debt recovery.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-applicants:
Before you begin, make sure you know the name of the course you are applying for and have copies of all relevant documents to hand.
If you need to re-access your application to submit it or upload further information or document.
The University operates a centralised admissions service and all postgraduate applications are submitted to the Admissions Office.
All applications are then checked to ensure they are complete and ready to be assessed by an Admissions Adviser.
During the assessment applications are checked for Fee Status, Criminal Conviction declaration and Disability declaration.
In all instances further information will be requested from the applicant in line with Data Protection and Freedom of Information Policies (see policies and procedures).
Decisions on the academic entry requirements are made centrally for the majority of courses.
Paper and electronic application records are held securely by the Admissions Office and access is restricted to those involved in the admissions process.
Deadlines are agreed for individual courses.
Make sure you apply in time to be sure of your chance of a place.
The University is committed to providing feedback, when requested, to any applicant whose application has been unsuccessful.
Feedback will be given to enable applicants to reflect on their progress through the application process and does not constitute a reconsideration of an application or a challenge to the University's decision on an application.
Procedure for Applicants Requesting Feedback
The University aims to consider all applications fairly and effectively in line with our policies and procedures.
If an applicant is dissatisfied with the outcome or treatment of their application they are entitled to submit an appeal or complaint and should refer to the Appeals Procedure for Applicants for further information including the permissible grounds for appeal or the Complaints Handling Procedure (see policies and procedures).
There are a number of policies and procedures that may affect an individual who is applying to the University.
Some policies or procedures are only applicable to applicants to certain courses or only to one group of applicants (e.g.
international students).
If you have any queries about the information on these pages and whether they affect you, please contact admissions@rgu.ac.uk .
The main policies and procedures effecting applicants are:
RGU Policies are reviewed and refreshed on a regular basis so check regularly for the current version.
Our website contains information intended as a guide for applicants for courses delivered by Robert Gordon University.
To ensure the continued currency of its courses and modules the University addresses the requirements of external advisors and associated professional, statutory or regulatory bodies, and implements changes to content and/or structure.
The University has taken every care to be as accurate as possible.
However, the information must be read as subject to change and you are recommended to review the website on a regular basis.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-undergraduate:
Undergraduate Courses
Our undergraduate accounting and finance courses aim to bridge academic theory with meaningful exposure to real-world business practice.
They have been developed to ensure that graduates are equipped with well-rounded skills for developing careers within a range of sectors.
Read our blog to learn more about studying an Accounting and Finance degree at RGU:
We are celebrating 25 years of our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree.
Read stories from our inspiring students and graduates:
BA (Hons)
Robert Gordon University's BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree will develop your academic knowledge and understanding, practical hands on skills and broader abilities needed for a successful career.
Established links with professional bodies and employers ensure the course is relevant for today’s accounting profession.
BA (Hons) Accounting with Business Analytics at RGU will enable you to develop the business competencies and digital skills necessary to future-proof your career.
An introduction to data science along with core accounting knowledge will ensure that graduates have valuable and relevant skills to meet the changing demands of the accounting profession.
The BA (Hons) Business with Finance and Economics course at RGU will provide you with a comprehensive grounding across the key business disciplines.
In addition, you will gain specialist understanding of how to interpret communicate and apply financial and economic information to improve strategic decision making in business.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/architecture-construction-and-surveying-undergraduate:
We combine innovative thinking with new technologies and contemporary practice across all aspects of the design and construction of buildings, public space and cities.
As a student of RGU you will gain hands on experience and excellent links to industry preparing you for the world of work.
BSc (Hons) | MSci
Our accredited MSci Architectural Technology degree, is an Integrated Masters with accreditation from the professional body CIAT at both undergraduate level - BSc (Hons) Architectural Technology, and Masters - MSci Advanced Architectural Technology.
BSc | Master of
The BSc Architecture/Master of Architecture (BSc/MArch) course at Robert Gordon University is a linked award that allows you to progress from Year 1 to Master's level continuously, and obtain a clear pathway to professional registration.
Graduate Apprenticeship in BSc (Hons)
The Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Built Environment BSc (Hons) is a fully-funded, work-based degree that integrates academic theory with on-the-job expertise.
Continue your employment while building the essential skills, knowledge, and professional behaviours to excel and lead in the industry.
BDes (Hons)
Combining diverse perspectives into an innovative curriculum, the course develops critical, creative, and compassionate skills for designing domestic, commercial, civic, experiential, or temporary spaces.
Studio-based learning, collaborative projects, and real-world case studies empower you to experiment with various media, methods, and approaches to interior design.
BSc (Hons)
The Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management course at Robert Gordon University is a stepping stone for students who see their future careers in the financial management and leadership of projects within the built environment.
It provides you with the opportunity to progress towards becoming a Chartered Surveyor and can lead to career opportunities worldwide.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/art-and-design-undergraduate:
Our undergraduate courses offer a variety of engaging experiences that enable our students to develop their knowledge and skills within a collaborative and nurturing learning environment.
Our curriculums are student centred and tailored towards you as an individual.
We will set you apart from other graduates by enabling you to develop a skill set that is focussed on your future ambitions by establishing a sustainable career trajectory beyond graduation.
Find out more about the types of careers that an Art and Design degree could lead to, and be inspired by stories from people using Art and Design in real-life jobs.
Our Fashion and Textiles Design course will provide you with an extensive understanding of the creative, critical and technical skills required to pursue your chosen specialism within fashion or textiles.
You will define your own learning pathway and acquire the specialist skills necessary to pursue a career as a professional within today’s dynamic fashion and textile industry.
Our Fine Art course will develop and expand your critical aptitude, creative skills, and professional acuity in preparation for your future career as an artist.
You will explore a range of subjects through the disciplines of drawing, painting, printmaking, sculpture, photography, and moving image and the creative investigation and application of both analogue and digital methodologies.
Our foundation curriculum is a comprehensive first year experience that explores your understanding of our subject areas through a wide variety of creative activities and opportunities.
We will enable your journey through the creative landscape by supporting your investigations and discoveries.
You will experience diverse ways of thinking, doing, making, drawing and designing.
Embark on an exciting adventure with our interdisciplinary BSc (Hons) Games Design course, which combines expertise from the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology and Gray’s School of Art.
Master essential design techniques, game theory, programming, and interactive development skills and emerge as a diverse practitioner poised to shape and redefine an expansive and fast paced industry
Our Photography course will provide you with the opportunity to develop your creative and practical expertise and engage with a wide range of topics and themes that deepen your understanding of photography’s social and cultural significance.
Our 3D Design course will provide you with the opportunity to explore the disciplines of product, ceramics, and jewellery through research, development, and the innovative application of materials and processes.
Our workshops will enable you to experience and explore traditional making techniques whilst broadening your skills and knowledge of the latest digital design and fabrication methods.
Providing a unique approach to Web and Mobile Design, this course brings together Computing, Digital Marketing, and Visual Communication expertise from three schools across the University to prepare graduates with a creative, adaptable skillset for the modern web and mobile software industry .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/business-and-management-undergraduate:
We offer a vast range of undergraduate courses in relation to the business and management disciplines.
Each of our undergraduate business and management courses are developed with industry in mind, therefore not only will you understand the theoretical aspects of business and management, but also the practical elements.
Graduate Apprenticeship in BA (Hons)
The Graduate Apprenticeship in Accounting at Robert Gordon University will develop your knowledge and understanding across all areas of accounting and management relevant to practice and industry.
It provides the necessary underpinning in core accounting knowledge, skills and competencies allowing you to critically analyse and determine potential solutions.
This interdisciplinary course will enable you to take a data-driven approach to business challenges, preparing you to manage, analyse and visualise data effectively.
This course has been designed in response to huge demand from employers for individuals with data and digital skills who can turn data into insight and insight into action.
The BA (Hons) Business and Management course from Robert Gordon University will give you a thorough understanding of the nature and context of business, the principal management functions within a business and the skills required for effective management in organisations.
This unique online Business Management degree at Robert Gordon University responds to the changing needs of global business, allowing you to obtain a formal qualification whilst working.
It will enable you to progress your professional and personal development by translating learning into practice.
Graduate Apprenticeships at Robert Gordon University are an innovative route to degree qualification, blending academic study with work-based learning which is supported by your employer.
This Business Management course provides opportunities to develop in class and through online study of relevant theory with immediate application of practice through work-based learning activities.
The BA (Hons) Business with Data Analytics course at RGU will provide you with the knowledge and skills to navigate a data driven future.
As businesses increasingly depend upon data to inform strategic decision making, you will be at the forefront of data innovation bringing new and contemporary approaches to established businesses.
Our BA (Hons) Business with Human Resource Management degree, explores the theoretical and practical aspects of HR.
You will learn the key disciplines of human resource management through a unique blend of modules including Operations Management and Human Resource Development.
The BA (Hons) Business with Marketing degree at Robert Gordon University is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), which allows you to take advantage of certain exemptions to gain CIM qualification through the CIM Graduate Gateway.
Data Science is a new, exciting area that has emerged in the last few years.
The BSc (Hons) Data Science with Artificial Intelligence degree at Robert Gordon University has been designed to provide you with the practical computing skills that you'll need to be part of our exciting data-driven future.
The BSc (Hons) Data Science with Business Management degree at Robert Gordon University has been designed to provide you with a great blend of practical Data Science skills alongside learning about the management and business context in which they can be applied.
The Fashion Management degree from Robert Gordon University is designed to fully integrate the management theories associated with the global fashion industry alongside the business contexts of fashion buying, production, marketing and merchandising.
If you have a passion for fashion and a brain for business, this is the course for you.
This BA (Hons) International Business Management degree from Robert Gordon University will provide you with an understanding of the global business environment and equip you with the skills required to be at the forefront of the international business world.
This fully accredited (BA Hons) International Hospitality Management degree from Robert Gordon University combines both the academic and specialist aspects of International Hospitality Management.
This double accredited BA (Hons) International Tourism Management degree provides you with the unique opportunity to study the academic aspects of tourism management and gain first-hand industry experience.
It covers all the integral features of the tourism sector including visitor attractions, hotels, leisure centres, theatres, events and business tourism, music venues and travel.
The Law and Management course from Robert Gordon University equips you with a sound understanding of law as well as key business management skills and knowledge.
The high level of flexibility within the course, particularly at Honours level, allows you to shape your degree to specialise in the areas you develop an interest in.
BSc
Designed for ambitious maritime professionals, the BSc Maritime Studies has been developed to
support students to a degree qualification.
The course recognises the practical experience of cadets and supports them on their student journey to gain a degree.
The course consists of 120 SCQF level credits at level 9.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/communication-media-and-marketing-undergraduate:
Our undergraduate courses are designed to offer you many opportunities to build on your business creativity by practicing a blend of academic theory as well as practical experience ensuring you are best equipped to transition from education to employment.
Robert Gordon University offers the only BA (Hons) Digital Marketing degree available in Scotland.
It will provide you with the relevant knowledge and skills to design, deliver and evaluate digital marketing strategies and campaigns, in preparation for a successful career in the industry.
Robert Gordon University offers the only BA (Hons) Digital Marketing and Business Analytics degree in Scotland and equips you with the ability to design, manage and deliver analytics projects within a digital marketing context.
You will gain the knowledge, creative and technical skills required to succeed in the increasingly digital and analytics-driven marketing environment.
Robert Gordon University offers a BA (Hons) Film and Media degree which incorporates both the theoretical and practical aspects relating to media.
It will help you build a portfolio of production output and provide you with the knowledge and skills to pursue a specialist career in media.
Robert Gordon University offers an intensive and practical BA (Hons) Journalism degree that will equip you with the key skills needed for a rewarding career in Journalism or related industries.
Our multimedia course provides you with critical knowledge and specialist theoretical, analytical and production skills for working in this fast-paced environment.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/computing-undergraduate:
Our courses are innovative, practical and designed to meet current and future industry needs.
We will equip you with business-sought skills required for a successful career at the forefront of digital and creative economies.
We work closely with industry in the design of our courses, ensuring you are equipped for the world of work.
Our inclusive and supportive community will empower you to thrive in the digital era.
Computer science is an exciting, challenging and growing field that is part of almost everything we do.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree at Robert Gordon University will provide you with the knowledge and skills to design and implement state-of-the-art software systems to solve the most challenging problems posed by industry.
The BSc (Hons) Computing and Creative Design course has been designed due to industry demand.
There is a need for developers who have a background in creative design, and this course will provide you with an exciting blend of technical and creative subjects to meet this demand.
MSci
The MSci Computing Science degree at Robert Gordon University has been designed to create modern Software Developers who can use their knowledge and skills to create solutions to real-world problems.
This 5-year course results in a Master’s level qualification with a key feature being the year-long industrial, research or study abroad placement.
The BSc (Hons) Cyber Security degree from Robert Gordon University will equip you with the knowledge, skills and experience to prevent, protect and minimise cyber security threats and incidents.
Cyber security professionals are in high demand across the world, and this course will ensure you are industry ready.
This course provides students with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to help their organisations gain insight from their data to drive innovation and efficiency.
The course covers topics which offer students a thorough grounding in data analytics, data management, data engineering, machine learning and artificial intelligence.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/energy-undergraduate:
We offer a range of demand-driven, innovative and quality assured courses that will prepare you for the world of work.
Experience practical, industry-led learning and teaching at RGU, we are here to support you and your career ambitions.
Graduate Certificate
Energy Data Management with Business Analytics is the first course in the world to bring together asset data management across multiple arms of the bulk power generation sector; specifically, wind, oil and gas and nuclear.
The inclusion of Business Analytics further enhances the employability of data managers across the sector.
BEng (Hons)
The BEng (Hons) Engineering Design course at Robert Gordon University has been developed due to industry demand.
There is a need for design engineers who can think creatively about challenges faced by industry and develop innovative solutions to solve these challenges.
The BEng (Hons) Mechanical and Electrical Engineering course at Robert Gordon University is designed to meet industry demand.
There is a need for engineers who have the knowledge of both the mechanical and electrical engineering disciplines who can find innovative solutions to challenges faced by industry.
MEng
This MEng Mechanical and Electrical Engineering degree at Robert Gordon University will provide you with the skills to produce safer, durable, affordable and more efficient machines and systems to benefit society.
There is a great industry demand for engineers with a broad-range of knowledge, covering both mechanical and electrical disciplines, and this course will ensure you are industry ready.
Robert Gordon University offers a BEng (Hons) in Mechanical and Offshore Engineering.
This course will provide you with the ability to work methodically and logically to solve real-word problems.
You will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to manage challenges and conflicting requirements for a successful and rewarding career.
The MEng Mechanical and Offshore Engineering degree at Robert Gordon University will provide you with the ability to work methodically and logically, solving real-life problems in the face of conflicting requirements.
The course will equip you with the knowledge and skills to manage challenges for successful and rewarding career.
This BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree at Robert Gordon University will enable you to be involved in the design, construction and operation of machines, structures and industrial plant for a wide range of industries, across the world.
You'll constantly strive to produce safer, durable, cheaper, useful and more efficient machines and systems to benefit society and change tomorrow.
The accredited MEng Mechanical Engineering degree at Robert Gordon University will enable you to be involved in the design, construction and operation of machines, structures and industrial plant across a wide range of industries.
You'll constantly strive to produce safer, durable, affordable and more efficient machines and systems to benefit society.
This BEng (Hons) Renewable Energy Engineering degree is designed to create future-proof professional engineers who can address complex engineering challenges and revolutionise the renewable energy sector.
Graduate from this course be equipped with comprehensive knowledge, technical and transferable skills and creativity required by the global renewable energy industry.
This MEng Renewable Energy Engineering degree is designed to create future-proof professional engineers who can tackle existing and future engineering challenges and transform the renewable energy industry.
Graduate from this course will be equipped with comprehensive knowledge, technical and transferable skills and creativity required by the global renewable energy industry.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/engineering-undergraduate:
We work closely with local, national and international companies to ensure our courses continue to meet the demands of employers and their changing industries.
Study engineering at RGU and experience practical, industry-led learning and teaching, state-of-the-art facilities, guest lecturers and project work in every year of study.
We are here to support you and your career ambitions.
Graduate Apprenticeship in BEng (Hons)
Graduate Apprenticeships are an innovative route to a degree qualification blending academic study with work-based learning, supported by the student’s employer.
The Graduate Apprenticeship in BEng (Hons) Engineering: Design and Manufacture covers a blend of engineering design and manufacture topics.
This course covers topics in instrumentation and automation providing the student with a grounding in engineering principles, concepts and theories involving managerial, technical and environmental issues in the modern workplace.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/events-tourism-and-hospitality-undergraduate:
Our highly practical undergraduate courses in events, tourism and hospitality are constantly evolving in line with the demands of the sector.
Our strong industry links enable you to develop in-depth, specialist knowledge and skills.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/fashion-undergraduate:
Our undergraduate fashion courses are designed to enhance your understanding of the global fashion industry.
We enable our students to actively engage with industry through practical activities, enhancing your transferable skills.
This will be highly beneficial in your future fashion career.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/health-and-sport-science-undergraduate:
We deliver high quality undergraduate programmes in health and sports science, which promote hands-on, practical learning.
Embark on a rewarding career by undertaking one of our industry-focused courses.
Studying Applied Sport and Exercise Science at Robert Gordon University will give you the confidence and ability to succeed in the sport and exercise industry.
This course is based on the sciences that underpin human performance in a variety of areas from competitive sport to general health.
MDRad
The Diagnostic Radiography course at Robert Gordon University will give you the in-depth knowledge, clinical practice and interprofessional learning experience providing you with a strong foundation to start your career within the health service.
The Healthcare Practice course is designed for health professionals holding Diploma level qualifications including nurses, midwives and allied healthcare professionals.
You should be on a professional healthcare register.
The course is shaped to recognise your practice experience and will support you on your journey to gain a degree.
The BSc Midwifery course will prepare you to provide skilled, knowledgeable and compassionate care to women, newborn infants and their families as a qualified midwife.
Midwives work across the continuum from pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, labour and birth, postpartum and early weeks of newborn infants’ life.
This BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing course is designed to prepare our future nurses to thrive within today’s health and social care services by providing you with the skills, knowledge and critical ability to provide person-centred care.
The course follows the structure of the BSc Nursing (Adult) course with the addition of a fourth year at honours level.
At Robert Gordon University, the BSc Adult Nursing course will provide you with the capabilities to support the health and wellbeing of adults in a variety of contexts including hospital and home settings.
You will be proficient in delivering compassionate care to adults who are experiencing acute/long-term illnesses and injury.
The BSc Children and Young People (CYP) Nursing course will prepare you for providing holistic care across a variety or healthcare and social settings.
As a qualified nurse you will work in partnership with children, young people under the age of 16 years old, and their families to improve and support their health and wellbeing.
The BSc Mental Health Nursing course will equip you with the knowledge and skills to understand and respond to often complex challenges experienced by individuals which can impact on their physical, mental and social wellbeing.
The course is designed to ensure that you feel confident addressing a range of healthcare needs.
MDiet
The innovative integrated Master of Nutrition and Dietetics course at Robert Gordon University will develop your research, leadership and service evaluation skills to take you confidently into the changing healthcare landscape.
Delivered online, this BSc Occupational Health course at Robert Gordon University is aimed at health professionals working or aspiring to work in occupational health.
It is designed to provide a clear skill set from an educational programme; the course focuses on achieving standards of expertise sufficient for safe and effective occupational health practice.
MOccTh
This Master of Occupational Therapy course at Robert Gordon University will provide you with the skills to make a difference.
As an occupational therapist you will engage in a variety of ways with individuals, groups and communities, using your unique occupational therapy skills to enable people to overcome challenges and participate more fully in daily occupations.
Developed in response to an increase in learning and training requirements for paramedics, the Paramedic Practice course at Robert Gordon University is delivered in collaboration with the Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) and regional territorial health boards.
You will learn the necessary skills that are in demand now and in the future, within unique remote and rural placement locations.
MPhys
This practically applied Master of Physiotherapy course at Robert Gordon University will enable you to analyse and evaluate your practice as you effectively assess and treat a wide variety of patients, with competencies beyond those expected of a graduate.
The BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching degree it designed for those who wish to progress from HND study in sport coaching or a related area.
It provides a grounding in theoretical and practical areas of contemporary coaching using an applied approach to provide you with the skills to become an evidence-based practitioner.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/law-undergraduate:
Embark on a career in law by undertaking one of our industry-focused undergraduate courses.
Our law courses will provide you with in-depth knowledge, and the ability to tailor your studies to your area of interest.
The course provides insights into all aspects of crime: from how it is investigated, to its social and psychological causes, and how the legal system responds to crime.
We explore everything from gang crime, gun crime, to cybercrime to environmental crime to terrorism and lots more!
LLB (Hons)
The LLB (Hons) Law degree at Robert Gordon University will provide you with an academically rigorous, practical and diverse education in the discipline of Scots Law.
You will gain the knowledge, required by the Law Society of Scotland, to enter the legal profession, and the flexibility to tailor your subject profile to suit your intended career path.
Legal knowledge and skills hinge on the use and communication of information.
Given the fast developments of various forms of artificial intelligence, understanding AI is going to be an important skill for future law graduates.
This qualifying law programme provides students with the required range of law options needed as part of qualifying as a Scottish solicitor.
By harnessing the University's teaching in criminology it provides an alternative perspective on crime and human behaviour to broaden the student's outlook and understanding of society and what can go wrong.
Combining the rigorous Scots Law study with essential business insight, this course will help you to gain the core legal knowledge and skills required by the Law Society of Scotland while developing a strong understanding of business operations, preparing you for diverse careers in law, commerce, and beyond.
DipHE | LLB
This online LLB Law degree from Robert Gordon University is designed for those who wish to obtain an LLB but are unable to attend an on-campus course.
This unique degree is designed to provide you with key knowledge across all main areas of Scots Law including commercial, property, criminal, family and law of contract.
CertHE
This online course at RGU, developed in partnership with the Law Society of Scotland, supports paralegals to gain and demonstrate the necessary knowledge and skills for their role, and to enhance their career progression.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/nursing-and-midwifery-undergraduate:
We offer high quality undergraduate programmes in nursing and midwifery, where you will learn theory, plus all the practical skills needed to provide passionate care.
As the main provider of nursing and midwifery education in the North East of Scotland, we have a reputation for producing person-centred, capable and professional graduates.
The Nursing - Dual Registration programme at Robert Gordon University has been developed to meet local demand for nurses to be registered in two fields of practice.
You will develop a broad skillset to provide person-centred care in both Adult and Children and Young People (CYP) fields of nursing.
The Nursing - Dual Registration programme has been designed to meet local demand for nurses to be registered in two fields of practice.
This is an exciting opportunity for our next generation of nurses to thrive in two fields of nursing, providing person-centred care in both Children and Young People (CYP) and Mental Health fields of nursing.
The Nursing - Dual Registration programme provides the opportunity for nurses to be registered in two fields of practice, Mental Health and Adult.
As you broaden your skills across two fields, this mix will enhance your appeal to employers, particularly in remote and rural areas where there is known demand for such a wide skillset.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/pharmacy-and-life-sciences-undergraduate:
Our undergraduate pharmacy and life science courses will prepare you for a career in this fascinating and fast-moving sector.
The knowledge that you gain through our courses can be applied to a wide variety of careers.
This Applied Biomedical Science degree from Robert Gordon University will teach you about the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of disease, and provide a unique laboratory training programme to give you hands-on experience in all the major hospital laboratory disciplines.
You will be well-prepared for a successful career in this key profession within healthcare.
This BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course at Robert Gordon University will give you exposure to a broad variety of subjects in order to give you scope to work in a wide-range of medical or pharmaceutical sectors.
It is a foundation for a world of opportunities in the developing and exciting field of biomedical science.
This brand-new course will bridge the knowledge gap identified by practising pharmacy technicians, increasing your practice scope and contribution to the provision of patient centred pharmaceutical care and clinical pharmacy.
This degree qualification will provide advanced knowledge across the four pillars of practice of the new post-registration pharmacy workforce development framework.
Offering a crime scene to courtroom learning experience, the Forensic and Analytical Science degree will provide you with key problem solving skills to progress in an exciting and fascinating forensic or analytical science career.
The course features extensive practical elements meaning you will use a wide array of analytical instrumentation preparing you for the working world.
MPharm
The Master of Pharmacy degree from Robert Gordon University is designed to produce effective practitioners with the knowledge and skills to deliver the very best pharmaceutical care for patients, underpinned by sound scientific principles.
This is achieved through a student-centred approach, helping you to develop as a life-long learner and reflective practitioner.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/undergraduate-courses/social-studies-undergraduate:
Our undergraduate courses are designed to ensure you have a stimulating and enjoyable education while providing a range of transferable skills that employers require.
Our social studies courses will enable you to enter the workplace better equipped to utilise the expertise you have been taught.
*excludes colleges, small, specialist and private providers.
The Applied Psychology degree from Robert Gordon University covers the scientific study of the brain and behaviour, and will explore how we interact with the world around us.
Social science encompasses a range of fascinating disciplines.
Psychology is one that is well-known and topical with a practical application.
The Applied Social Sciences degree from Robert Gordon University is built around the core disciplines of psychology and sociology, providing the best possible launching pad for a career in these fascinating areas.
You will learn about the society we live in and the relationships people have within that society.
The Applied Sociology degree at Robert Gordon University will provide you with the skills to help yourself and others in life and in work.
At Robert Gordon University, this BA (Hons) Social Work course will provide you with the knowledge, values and skills to practice as a qualified Social Worker.
We're the largest provider of social work education in Scotland and have a strong reputation for providing high-quality teaching resulting in highly employable graduates.
The BA (Hons) Social Work Distance Learning degree from Robert Gordon University is designed for someone already working in a related social care role.
It will provide you with the knowledge, values and skills required by the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) to practice as a qualified Social Worker.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate-applicants:
If you applied through UCAS then the deadlines in place are established and agreed by UCAS.
To guarantee equal consideration applications should be submitted to UCAS by 29 January, however most courses will accept applications after this date.
You can check all the important key dates for UCAS on their webpages, but you will also receive reminders from then as you approach key dates, so you can take any actions or make decisions before the date they have set.
Institution name: RGU Institution code: R36
You can choose one of these methods of application:
Applicants for first year entry will apply to other universities as well as to RGU through a single online Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) application.
Before you begin, make sure you know the name of the course that you are applying for and have copies of relevant documents to hand.
If you need to re-access your application to submit it or upload further information or documents.
International fee-paying students applying to start an undergraduate course in January should apply via International College at Robert Gordon University (ICRGU).
The International Year 1 has the same learning outcomes as those students studying the first year undergraduate programme at the University, it simply offers an alternative start date for your convenience.
The duration of the International Year 1 is 9 months and will be taught over the summer months to lead seamlessly onto Year 2 of your chosen degree programme.
After that, applications can be submitted through “Clearing” the final point of the application cycle that allows new applications to be submitted once exam results are received in August.
The University operates a centralised admissions service and all undergraduate applications are submitted to the Student Admissions Service.
All applications are then checked to ensure they are complete and ready to be assessed by an Admissions Officer.
During the assessment, applications are checked for Fee Status, Criminal Conviction declaration (if required) and any Disability declaration.
Undergraduate applications to courses with compulsory interview/selection visit are assessed for academic entry prior to being invited to interview.
More information is in our section on Selection Visits .
How long will my application take to be processed?
Once we have made a decision we will send you an email confirming this, and if relevant, directing you to check your online record through UCAS .
Paper and electronic application records are held securely by the Student Admissions Office and access is restricted to those involved in the admissions process.
All applications are submitted to the Student Admissions Service where the decisions are made by our Admissions Officers.
When a decision has been made to offer or not offer a place, the decision will be sent to an individual applicant by email.
The offer sent to you will be either:
Undergraduate applicants applying through UCAS can apply for deferred entry in accordance with UCAS application procedures.
Applicants who apply direct to the University can apply for deferred entry as long as it is within the next two Academic Years.
The decision to allow deferment will be made on an individual basis and should be requested in writing to the Student Admissions Service.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/7915-current-gray-s-student-artwork-selected-to-sell-at-edit:
Tuesday 25 February 2025
Edit sells products from talented designers, artists and makers from the North East Scotland, including RGU alumni and now current RGU students, and is delivered by Look Again , Gray’s School of Art and Deemouth Artist Studios.
Students Sofia Burnham, Chloe Campbell, Innes Gregory, Eden Hally and Ewen McGillivary have all been selected for the first print collection from the Communication Design course to be sold at the store.
Iain Morrison, Stage 4 Coordinator for BA (Hons) Communication Design said: "Having our students sell their prints at Edit is a fantastic opportunity to showcase their talent in a professional retail setting.
“Edit’s commitment to celebrating makers from North East Scotland aligns perfectly with our aim to support emerging designers in developing their creative and entrepreneurial skills.”
Eden Hally, a fourth year Gray’s student from Aberdeenshire said: “Being able to showcase my work in the city centre is such a fantastic opportunity.
When I designed my print for Edit, I really tried to think outside the box and add a bit of whimsy, curiosity, and fun to how we see Aberdeen.
“My work channels my curiosity about the natural world around me, often featuring animals and plants.
I grew up in a tiny place called Tornaveen, near Lumphanan, where there isn't much to do except walk around the woods, fields, and farmland; I moved to the city centre when I was in my early 20s.
“I like to use my illustration practice to bring attention to show how interesting the world around us can be, to help increase knowledge on biodiversity, and because as an adult I have a much deeper appreciation for nature and natural life than I did growing up and I want to share that joy with others.
We should hold on to our child-like wonder and curiosity!”
Further editions will be created for later in the year when the students host their Degree Show at Gray’s in June.
Cover image shows: L-R: Innes Gregory, Chloe Campbell, Ewen McGillivary, and Eden Hally.
Find out more about Edit on Instagram:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/7901-aberdeen-business-school-at-rgu-receives-accreditation-boost:
Monday 17 February 2025
The Energy Institute (EI) has accredited each of MSc Energy Management , MSc Energy Transitions and Sustainability , and MBA Sustainability and Energy Transitions for both the Chartered Energy Manager (CEM) and the Member of the Energy Institute (MEI) Learning Affiliate designations, in addition to MBA Oil and Gas Management for MEI.
All four of these programmes have received accreditation for five-years, further strengthening and emphasising the array of high-quality and high-impact energy courses available at RGU.
Jo Royle, Dean of Aberdeen Business School , said: “At Aberdeen Business School we are proud of the portfolio of programmes that we offer and have great confidence in their effectiveness in producing graduates that go on to prosper in their chosen field.
“This accreditation from the Energy Institute only highlights this further and is great testament to both the number of quality teaching staff at RGU and the hard work that has gone into creating leading and impactful energy courses - a sector which remains incredibly important to the economy of the North East.”
The Energy Institute is the chartered professional membership body for people who work across the world of energy.
Its purpose is to create a better energy future for its members and society by accelerating a just global energy transition to net zero.
The ABS EI accreditation and Learning Affiliate status offers free student membership of the EI and access to knowledge and skills development resources and career opportunities, including network activities and branch events.
Terry Winter, Head of Membership and Accreditation at the Energy Institute, said: “We are delighted and proud to be partnered with RGU’s Aberdeen Business School and look forward to future collaboration.
“Accreditation provides external recognition and a stamp of assurance that the courses are of the highest quality.
These students are the energy professionals of tomorrow, and by studying accredited courses, they can be confident that they are being equipped with the right knowledge and skills, opening up a clear pathway to professional registration or chartership.”
RGU’s Aberdeen Business School has a long-standing reputation for its excellence in teaching a wide variety of programmes that combat real world challenges to create top quality work-ready graduates.
In 2020 it was named Times Higher Education’s Business School of the Year and it is also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), an accolade achieved by only 5% of global business schools.
Recent recognition includes ranking first in Scotland for student satisfaction in Business and Management Studies (Complete University Guide 2025) and first in Scotland and top 5 in the UK for teaching quality in Accounting and Finance (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
Key to the school’s progression and development, mirroring the University as a whole, is the increasing popularity and accessibility of courses through new modes of learning.
Many programmes are available full or part-time and from on-campus, online and even work-based.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-postgraduate:
Postgraduate Courses
Our accounting and finance postgraduate courses are informed and recognised by a range of professional bodies.
Our degrees include options that are suitable for students wishing to advance their career and top-up existing accounting qualifications, or courses for those who may wish to transition into a career in accounting.
As a postgraduate student our courses will provide you with the knowledge and skills that are vital in today’s highly competitive workplace.
PgCert | PgDip | MSc
This Accounting and Finance course at Robert Gordon University is suitable if you have a first degree in another field of study and now wish to develop a career in accounting and finance.
It aims to produce independent thinkers who can deal with the complexity of the accounting and finance challenges facing organisations, domestically or internationally.
This Financial Management course at Robert Gordon University will help you to develop the theoretical and analytical finance skills needed to succeed in the corporate sector and financial institutions.
The course’s extensive coverage of the CFA Institute’s Candidate Body of Knowledge (CBOK) means that it is recognised in the Institute’s University Affiliation Program.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/architecture-construction-and-surveying-postgraduate:
Whether you are a recent graduate, are looking to retrain or advance your career, we will have a postgraduate course for you.
We are passionate about producing graduates who not only have the expert knowledge, but also the skills to apply it appropriately and creatively.
As a postgraduate student of RGU, you will find our architecture, construction and surveying courses will increase your knowledge, skills and expertise, setting you up to work within a competitive market.
Our Advanced Architectural Technology top-up degree is open to applicants from a wide variety of backgrounds looking to become professionally chartered through CIAT or simply to equip you to play a lead role in the future design and construction of our buildings, cities and rural communities.
Master of
Our RIBA and ARB accredited Master of Architecture Part 2 course will provide you with the opportunity to develop personal interests around three thematically distinct ‘Units’.
You will develop your professional knowledge and skills through extended research-led projects, which you will work on individually and as part of a group.
This fully accredited MSc Construction Project Management degree will develop your technical, managerial and interpersonal skills necessary for the management of complex construction projects.
This industry-driven course equips you with the competencies needed to meet the challenges of today’s technologies, working relationships and project-related risks.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/art-and-design-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate creative curriculums are defined by the wide variety of student experiences on offer.
Studio-based activities are complemented by drawing rooms, photography studios and darkrooms, and a variety of print, fabric and technical workshops that enable you to explore both analogue and digital techniques and processes.
In turn, you will develop both your academic knowledge and practical skills with the support of experienced practitioners, set within a stunning natural landscape and riverside campus.
PgCert | PgDip | MA
Our MA programme provides a series of connected learning experiences, which are delivered through four modules.
The Communication Design pathway within the Programme enables you to develop the skills, critical understanding and specialist knowledge and methodologies required to follow a rewarding career as an independent communication designer: illustrator, graphics or web, or related work.
The Fashion and Textiles pathway within the Programme enables you to develop the skills, critical understanding and specialist knowledge required to become a successful independent fashion or textiles designer or work within a related creative sector.
The Fine Art degree within the Programme enables you to develop the skills, critical understanding and specialist knowledge required to follow a rewarding career as an independent professional artist or to work within a related creative sector.
Our MA in Product, Ceramics and Jewellery Design will actively support you in developing your visual design practice and knowledge at a professional level.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/business-and-management-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate business and management courses are designed to enhance your understanding of business environments.
Our degrees span a range of general and more specialist subject areas, with many also including the opportunity to strengthen your academic knowledge by providing the opportunity to undertake a real business project or work placement.
There is a growing need for data analysis skills and knowledge in healthcare.
This exciting new course will prepare you to work with data effectively, developing a deep understanding of the role of data in informing organisational decisions and processes and developing an understanding of the management and use of data in a healthcare context.
This course is targeted at aspiring and current managers who want to develop their managerial competences in the key functional areas of a business.
MSc Business and Management with Sustainability at Aberdeen Business School follows a contemporary curriculum enabling students from any academic background to transition successfully into challenging managerial careers that recognise the global economic, social and political trends impacting upon ethical and responsible organisational decision making.
This Business Innovation and Entrepreneurship course at Robert Gordon University is designed to support you, no matter where you are on your entrepreneurial or intrapreneurial journey, with effective tools and techniques targeted at enhancing your personal contribution to business success.
Leaders function at all levels of a business, providing vision and galvanising the energy of followers towards achieving that vision.
The Business Leadership and Management course at Robert Gordon University is targeted at aspiring and current managers who want to develop knowledge and understanding of business practice.
The Business with Financial Management course at Robert Gordon University is targeted at aspiring and current managers who want to develop their managerial competences with an enhanced understanding of finance theory and corporate financial management.
You will develop a range of strategic and finance skills relevant for business decision making within a global environment.
The MSc Business with HR Management course at Robert Gordon University is targeted at aspiring and current managers who want to develop their managerial competences in the key functional business areas, with enhanced skills in people management.
It will provide you with theories, tools and techniques to support practical business management.
Globalisation, technological enhancements and a turbulent business environment are calling for an enhanced ability to manage risk and a strong focus on business continuity in all sectors.
The Business with Strategic Risk Management course at Robert Gordon University offers managers, both new and experienced, the opportunity to develop their managerial skills.
DBA
The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) at Robert Gordon University is a professional doctorate providing dynamic, research-based views of real management issues.
You will have the opportunity to blend the latest academic thinking with business knowledge, skills and practice, enabling a significant contribution to the enhancement of professional practice.
Accredited by the Energy Institute, this Energy Management degree at Robert Gordon University provides you with comprehensive knowledge and transferable management skills for the oil and gas, sustainable and renewable energy industries.
This Energy Institute-accredited Energy Transitions and Sustainability degree provides you with comprehensive knowledge & transferable management skills for addressing the management challenges of sustainable energy sourcing, evaluation and application.
This CIPD (Level 7) accredited Human Resource Management course will prepare you for the management of people and human resources in a global context.
You will gain the relevant knowledge and skills to become an effective line manager or HR professional and meet the needs of rapidly changing organisations.
The International Business Management course at Robert Gordon University will develop your understanding of the global business environment and enable you to function effectively in an international business context, or in a range of other settings in which an enhanced level of understanding of international business is an asset.
This accredited MSc International Marketing degree from Robert Gordon University will develop your knowledge and understanding of domestic and international marketing theory and current business management practices.
On successful completion you will be able to make an immediate and effective contribution to operations within the field of marketing.
MBA
Our flexible MBA master's degree in Business Administration programme at Robert Gordon University, has been designed with a practical element and will develop your advanced leadership skills and an in-depth understanding of the functional components of management, strategic management and specialist areas of study relating to your career aspirations.
The MBA Oil and Gas Management specialist degree at Robert Gordon University will hone your management skills to the specific needs of the oil and gas sector, giving practical experience while you learn and provide priceless insights and learning that can significantly impact your effectiveness and career.
With multiple study modes, the Procurement and Supply Chain Management CIPS accredited course at Robert Gordon University enables you to explore the dynamic discipline at your choice of pace.
A degree in this area will develop your knowledge, understanding and business skills for professional practice in procurement and supply chain management at middle and higher management levels.
The APM and PMI accredited Project Management degree at Robert Gordon University enables you to develop the competencies, skills and knowledge for all project management disciplines across the world.
This course is suitable for those already in the profession or seeking to change direction as well as those at the start of their career.
This MSc Robotics course is an interdisciplinary course in the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology.
The vision of our MSc Robotics course is to develop highly employable experts in robotics, autonomous system and AI technologies, who can lead the future advancements in the domain.
The MBA Sustainability and Energy Transitions programme at Robert Gordon University aims to build on your prior professional experience to enable you to acquire a wider range of management knowledge and skills with additional specialist focus on sustainability and energy transitions, which are highly relevant issues for managers and leaders in the industry today.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/communication-media-and-marketing-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate courses are designed to be flexible and collaborative, giving you the opportunity to gain valuable experience through studying how communication, marketing and digital strategies are used in business.
We will equip you with the skills required to adapt in a competitive world where knowledge is constantly evolving.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 9
This course is designed to allow participants to understand the nature, context, and format of financial information of companies and to develop knowledge of financial and management accounting techniques to support business decision making.
Short Course
This professional short course is designed for any professional who has a responsibility for crisis management and business recovery strategies, as well as those looking to specialise in crisis communication as a career.
Learn how to create compelling films for brands, products and causes.
This online course explores commercial filmmaking as a powerful storytelling tool—teaching you how to plan, pitch and produce visually engaging content that reflects brand identity and connects with audiences in a competitive digital landscape.
Grasp the principles of effectively using data to manage health care operations.
Conduct and explain both patient-focused and public health analytics.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 11
This module provides students with a broad appreciation of the range of digital library services within contemporary contexts and to encourage a critical engagement with the roles and purpose of these services.
It examines and evaluates both the cultural and technical elements which contribute to these services.
Short Course - 5 credits at SCQF level 9
This short foundation course has been developed for new entrants to the Document Control function in the Oil and Gas sector.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 9
This short course is designed for aspiring marketers, content creators, and professionals looking to upskill.
Across the course you will explore how influencers shape behaviour and brand engagement.
You’ll gain practical knowledge in content creation, collaboration, audience building, and personal branding delivered by industry-informed academics through flexible and supported online delivery.
This short course takes a practical, hands-on approach to Knowledge Organisation, involving students in the construction of a controlled vocabulary, a faceted classification, sample thesaurus entries, and the design of a web portal.
These well-established techniques are used to develop an Information Architecture for an organisation, visitor attraction, or an event.
Learn how to craft compelling stories for the screen.
This practical, online course explores the fundamentals of screenwriting, from concept to formatted script, giving you the tools to develop original ideas, build engaging characters, and master the visual language of film.
This short course will provide an overview of the key principles, practices and concepts of search engine optimisation and paid search, the tools and techniques used including keyword optimisation, on- and off-page SEO and link building strategies and the opportunity to apply this to a project of your choice.
Explore the digital marketing landscape, strategy, tools & tactics for effective communication.
The unique MSc Business Analytics degree from Robert Gordon University will prepare you to work with and analyse data effectively to inform business decisions and processes.
You will learn to design, commission, manage and deliver data projects and develop the skills and knowledge required to access, analyse and visualise data for business applications.
The CIPR accredited MSc Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Master’s degree from Robert Gordon University provides you with the practical skills and relevant academic knowledge to ensure you will be capable of operating in a strategic communication role on graduation.
The highly practical MSc Digital Marketing degree at Robert Gordon University will equip you with the theoretical knowledge and skills to be able to design, deliver and evaluate successful strategies and campaigns.
If you are looking to top-up your skillset and cannot commit to the full programme, there is the opportunity to study modules on an individual basis.
Robert Gordon University offers a MSc Journalism course, which focuses on the study of news and current affairs journalism in all its guises – from ‘traditional’ print, radio and TV coverage to the increasingly interactive approaches of news gathering and reporting to audiences of today’s online, digital and emerging multimedia platforms.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/computing-postgraduate:
You will learn practical and creative problem-solving skills using emerging technologies, where you will apply these skills to challenges faced by industry.
Our courses will offer you the opportunity to undertake a placement, and will expose you to research and commercial projects, enabling you to develop creativity that is much sought after by employers.
Our AI course equips graduates with advanced expertise in machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, and AI ethics.
Combining cutting-edge theory with practical application, the course develops critical thinking, research, and professional skills, preparing students to lead in the rapidly evolving AI industry.
The rapidly developing and rewarding field of biomedical technology involves engineering, constructing and operating medical devices.
Graduates can go on to work as engineers in the medical device industry, producing the next generation of devices such as prosthetics, through to specialists working in healthcare operating and maintaining equipment for diagnosis and treatment.
Graduate Apprenticeship in MSc
The course provides students with the skills required to become a successful cyber security professional in this growing, fast paced sector.
Students will be able to help protect their organisations against evolving threats.
They will develop the lifelong learning professional skills, ethics and behaviours required to stay abreast of a rapidly evolving domain.
The MSc Cyber Security degree is certified by the National Cyber Security Centre and will equip you for an exciting career in this fast-paced and ever-changing field.
You’ll learn how to design and maintain secure information systems and networks, and you will gain the knowledge and skills to prevent, protect and minimise cyber security threats and incidents.
The MSc Data Science degree at Robert Gordon University will equip you with the knowledge and skills to design and implement computer-analytics and visualisation solutions across a range of industries.
The MSc Information Technology degree provides an opportunity for candidates wishing to formalise their existing IT experience with a qualification, and for graduates of non-computing disciplines to develop the specialist skills suitable to transition into an exciting career in computing and software development.
The MSc Information Technology with Business Intelligence degree provides an opportunity for candidates wishing to formalise their existing IT experience with a qualification, and for graduates of non-computing disciplines to develop the specialist skills suitable to transition into an exciting career in computing, with a specialism in business intelligence.
The MSc Information Technology with Cyber Security course provides an opportunity for candidates wishing to formalise their existing IT experience with a qualification, and for graduates of non-computing disciplines to develop the specialist skills suitable to transition into an exciting career in computing, with a specialism in cyber security.
The course will prepare you for a career in the design and implementation of IT solutions and service management.
As a graduate, you will be well-positioned for a computing career in the ever-evolving global energy industry and its IT providers.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/energy-postgraduate:
Our flexible degrees are continually developed to meet the demands of the future, and you will benefit from our teaching excellence, wide range of academic expertise and collaborations with industry.
Find out more about our energy Master’s degrees that are across a range of subjects including business, computing, engineering, and law.
EngD
The Engineering Doctorate (EngD) is a qualification for practising researchers who aim to lead and innovate the development of products, processes and services in industry.
You will follow a fully integrated programme of taught technical, business, management and entrepreneurship modules, and will conduct an industry-based research project.
The MSc Drilling and Well Engineering degree is aimed at graduates who have a relevant academic background, as well as industry practitioners who possess appropriate industry experience.
The course focuses on the effective well construction, and aims to develop high levels of professional skills in the key areas of well design, drilling and operations management.
The MSc Engineering Programme aims to broaden and deepen your knowledge and understanding of a variety of engineering subjects, supporting career development and progression.
You can choose to undertake specific modules for Continuing Professional Development (CPD) purposes, or a number of modules to build up to a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Master's level award.
Engineering Management will equip you with the right skills and knowledge to deliver engineering projects in an innovative, sustainable and cost-effective manner.
Together with a focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals, these skills will help facilitate the achievement of Net Zero, energy transition, and the development of a circular economy.
LLM
The LLM Law and Energy Law pathway at Robert Gordon University has been designed to incorporate maximum flexibility both in the topics you cover and the way that you learn, whether on campus or online.
The MSc Oil and Gas Engineering course produces fit-for-purpose engineers who can make an effective contribution from an early stage.
The course is aimed at students who wish to work or enhance employment opportunities in the oil and gas industry.
It will prepare you for a range of professional careers through suitable, flexible study options.
MSc | LLM
The MSc/LLM Oil, Gas and Renewable Energy Law degree from Robert Gordon University provides an opportunity to critically assess key legal and contractual aspects including: licensing, contracts, M&A, environmental and renewable energy of the global Energy and Oil and Gas sectors, both in the UK and leading international regions.
This MSc Renewable Energy Engineering course is an interdisciplinary course across the Schools of Engineering, Business and Computing.
The course will provide graduates with practical experience as it incorporates practical activities, site visits, case study learning, and industry guest speakers 
lectures.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/engineering-postgraduate:
Whether you are looking to advance your career, enhance your skillset or continue your studies, we offer a range of demand-driven postgraduate engineering degrees.
Invest in your future and study in the energy capital of Europe.
Our courses are continually developed to meet the demands of the future, where you will benefit from RGU’s teaching excellence, wide range of academic expertise and collaborations with industry.
Delivered by a team of leading industry professionals and academics, you will be exposed to real world issues and explore the latest technologies in your field.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/events-tourism-and-hospitality-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate course in tourism and hospitality management will help you get the most out of your time spent in industry, both on a domestic and international level.
A highly tailored course to provide you with both theoretical knowledge and practical skills and experience, this qualification is specifically designed to meet the need for competent managers within the sector.
The postgraduate International Tourism and Hospitality Management course from Robert Gordon University has been designed in collaboration with industry, the Tourism Management Institute (TMI) and the Institute of Hospitality (IoH) and offers you the opportunity to gain professional expertise as well as an industry tailored and highly relevant Master’s degree.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/fashion-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate courses in fashion management and fashion and textiles are designed in collaboration with industry.
We will equip you with in-depth, specialist knowledge and creative skills that will advance your career within the sector.
This MSc International Fashion Business course at Robert Gordon University covers the creative, managerial and commercial aspects of the global fashion industry.
You will learn through projects which are based on case study scenarios, simulate real-life practice, and incorporate group interaction, ensuring you are equipped with the relevant knowledge and skills for a rewarding career.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/health-and-sport-science-postgraduate:
Build upon your prior knowledge and skills by undertaking a postgraduate course within health and sport science.
With courses that are designed with input from industry, and with many of our teaching staff still working in healthcare, you can be confident you are learning the skills essential for the future and highly desired by employers.
DPT
The DPT Physiotherapy course from Robert Gordon University is an accelerated programme providing a unique opportunity to qualify as a Chartered Physiotherapist, develop clinically applied research skills, and achieve a Doctorate.
The MSc Leading Transformation in Health and Social Care course was developed in response to an NHS skills-shortage and is designed for healthcare professionals looking for their next career step or those looking for a change in career direction.
At Robert Gordon University, the MSc Physiotherapy Pre-registration course is an accelerated programme which builds on prior learning and experience to provide you with the knowledge and skills necessary to practice physiotherapy and make a difference to patients’ lives.
Over two years you will experience an exciting and varied mix of academic and clinical learning.
Globally governments are prioritising strategies and policies for improving public health.
The MSc Public Health and Health Promotion course recognises the importance of the wider social context in which health is created; explores innovative approaches to address the widening inequalities gap, the health needs of an ageing population, and the increased prevalence of long-term chronic conditions.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/information-management-postgraduate:
Develop a career in the rapidly expanding information industry by undertaking a postgraduate course in information management.
Our courses are designed to combine theory with practice, allowing you to develop your knowledge and skills.
DInfSc
The Doctor of Information Science (DInfSc) at Robert Gordon University is a practitioner-focused doctoral degree, equivalent in terms of academic rigour to a PhD but more applied in nature.
It has been designed for experienced professionals working in a strategic, information or knowledge management environment.
The online MSc Information and Library Studies course at Robert Gordon University, will develop your critical, analytical thinking and practice-oriented skills.
It has been designed to replicate the environment found in the workplace by bringing together a mixture of theoretical and practical teaching methods.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/law-postgraduate:
A postgraduate degree in law is an excellent way to build on your existing knowledge and take the next step in your career.
On the other hand, you might be interested in a change of career and a postgraduate degree can help you do that.
PgCert | PgDip | LLM | MSc
Robert Gordon University offers an online LLM/MSc Construction Law and Arbitration course which provides practical, thorough and valuable teaching in the fast moving and highly specialist disciplines of construction law, construction adjudication and/or arbitration (depending on choice of route).
PgDip
The flexible Diploma in Professional Legal Practice from Robert Gordon University enables you to train further to practice as a solicitor in Scotland and is a PEAT 1 accredited course by the Law Society of Scotland.
Throughout the vocational course, you will learn the ethical rules, practical knowledge and professional skills required of solicitors in Scotland.
DLaw
The Doctor of Law (DLaw) course aims to provide opportunities for professionals in law and related fields to study legal challenges in an academic environment, drawing on theory and practice to develop insight into familiar but critical issues and to generate innovative solutions.
This is a specialist environmental law course covering the legal, policy and regulatory challenges of the environment, including climate change, energy transition and renewable energy.
The LLM Law degree from Robert Gordon University will equip you with the knowledge and skills to enhance your professional career in a range of legal environments.
It is designed to incorporate maximum flexibility both in the topics you cover and the way that you learn, whether online or on campus.
The Dispute Resolution degree pathway of the LLM Law programme will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the various methods and concepts relevant to dispute resolution.
It is designed to allow those with and without a legal background to have an excellent grasp of relevant issues that may arise in dispute resolution process.
Robert Gordon University offers the International Commercial Law degree pathway of the LLM Law programme, which introduces you to issues in international commercial transactions from different perspectives.
It adopts a comparative approach to commercial issues in major trading blocs and other emerging economies.
The Law and International Law course, pathway of the LLM Law programme from Robert Gordon University, is designed for those who want to gain advance knowledge in the area of private and public international law.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/nursing-and-midwifery-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate courses allow you to integrate your existing knowledge and experience with new skills so you can continue to deliver person-centred care at a valuably high level.
Gain a higher level of knowledge required for specialist and advanced practice.
PgDip | MSc
If you are a registered nurse looking to develop a specialised, higher level of knowledge and skills required for specialist and advanced practice within community children nursing role then this course is for you.
If you are a registered nurse looking to develop a higher level of knowledge and skills required to become a District Nurse and address the healthcare needs of individuals, families, carers within remote, rural and urban communities, then this course is for you.
If you are a registered nurse or midwife looking to develop a higher level of knowledge and skills required for specialist and advanced practice, then this course is for you.
If you are a registered nurse or midwife looking to develop a higher level of knowledge and skills required for specialist and advanced practice and have an interest in supporting school aged children, then this course is for you.
Built around nationally recognised benchmarks for advanced practice, the course equips professionals with contemporary knowledge and skills to practice within a dynamic healthcare landscape.
If you are a registered healthcare professional looking to attain advanced practice attributes relevant to both clinical and specialist practice then this course is for you.
The MSc Healthcare Leadership supports professionals to become impactful leaders for the advancement of today’s health and social care environment.
The course is suitable for a range of professionals who are involved in health or social care delivery, locally, nationally, or globally.
This course will equip you with the skills, knowledge and compassionate care required throughout pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, labour and birth, postpartum and the early stages of a newborn infants’ life.
The MSc will acknowledge your key graduate attributes and transferable skills and build on these so you can confidently deliver effective care.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/pharmacy-and-life-sciences-postgraduate:
Our pharmacy and life science courses will equip you with the necessary knowledge and skills to enhance your career.
Our courses have an exciting blend of academic and practical learning so you can actively experiment with your new skills before using in practice.
The online MSc Advanced Pharmacy Practice course will equip you with the necessary knowledge, skills, attitude and competencies required for effective advanced practice.
The course delivers a focused education, with content mapped to relevant professional development frameworks.
The Pharmacist Independent Prescribing qualification is mandatory at the diploma stage.
The MSc Analytical Science elective route in ‘Drug Analysis and Toxicology’ focuses on the analysis of pharmaceutical medicines and drugs.
The MSc Analytical Science elective route in ‘Environmental Analysis’ allows students to perform analysis on environment contaminants within various matrices.
The MSc Analytical Science elective route in ‘Food Analysis, Authenticity and Safety’ examines the analysis of food products and ingredients to ensure their quality and safety.
The online MSc Clinical Pharmacy Practice course at Robert Gordon University will equip you with the necessary knowledge and skills to have a positive impact on patients’ lives and make a difference in the field of clinical practice.
Our Master’s course in Pharmaceutical Science is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding and offers a broad curriculum essential for a pharmaceutical scientist in the current and future job market.
Jobs in this sector tend to require a broad skill set of chemistry, drug delivery and biomedical science.
Practice Certificate
This Practice Certificate in Pharmacist Independent Prescribing will prepare you to achieve the relevant learning outcomes required by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) to be eligible to apply for annotation as a Pharmacist Independent Prescriber.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/postgraduate-courses/social-studies-postgraduate:
Our postgraduate social studies courses will provide you with the experience and expertise required for the work environment by using a blend of both taught and practical learning.
Our courses are designed to ensure you have the skills for future working environments, within a rewarding sector.
The online MSc Applied Psychology conversion course is designed to allow those without a psychology undergraduate degree to develop the wide-range of subject-specific and generic skills required for a career as a professional Psychologist.
It will enable you to scientifically study individuals, the mind and behaviour, to make a lasting positive impact on people and society.
PgCert
This work-based PgCert Mental Health Officer Award ensures you are trained and assessed to the highest of standards through strong partnerships with a range of key stakeholders.
Local authorities are centrally involved in the course design, delivery and management in order to ensure that their responsibilities under legislation are addressed and the training course remains fit-for-purpose.
The MSc Social Work course at Robert Gordon University focuses on the values, skills and competencies required for the practice of social work to the qualifying level set by the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC).
It will give you the ability to positively impact society and improve the lives of individuals in an important profession.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8292-scottish-mens-shed-founder-recognised-with-rgu-honorary-award:
Friday 04 July 2025
Jason Schroeder is the founder of the Scottish Men’s Sheds Association (SMSA), a charitable organisation dedicated to developing and supporting local Men’s Shed groups.
These volunteer-run spaces provide a welcoming environment where men can come together to socialise in a safe environment, work on shared projects, build friendships, and find a renewed sense of purpose.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, said: “Jason’s work with the SMSA and its members across Scotland is truly inspiring.
“The fact that Men’s Sheds can be found throughout the North East, where it all started, and now across Scotland, shows how big a positive impact they make in our communities by tackling isolation and transforming the lives of men who visit them and take part in their activities.”
After immigrating to Aberdeenshire from South Africa in 1997, Jason drew from his life experiences, including his service in the South African marines and running the family newspaper business at the age of 23, to become a passionate advocate for community-led change.
His first involvement in the movement was in 2009 with a talk given in Inverurie by the chairman of the New Zealand Men’s Sheds Association, Dr Neil Bruce, who was on holiday.
This led to a four-year period in voluntarily co-founding the UK Men’s Sheds Association (UKMSA), representing Scotland and helping establish the Westhill Men’s Shed in Aberdeenshire, the first of its kind in Scotland.
The Westhill Shed quickly became a model of success, drawing over 5,000 visits in its first 18 months and evolving into a self-sustaining charitable organisation.
Jason served as a trustee for six years and used this experience to advocate for the expansion of the concept throughout the country.
Recognising the growing demand for support, Jason became the first paid Scottish Men’s Shed Development Officer with Aberdeenshire Voluntary Action tasked to replicate the success of the Westhill Men’s Shed model across Aberdeenshire.
After repeated calls from communities across Scotland to help set up Sheds in their own towns and the lack of funding for Scotland through the UKMSA, Jason created the SMSA in 2014 as an independent Scottish charity to provide the infrastructure and guidance needed to grow the movement.
In November 2015, the SMSA officially launched at The Lighthouse in Glasgow, followed by a regional roadshow that introduced the initiative to different communities across Scotland.
A year after launch, the organisation received a start up grant from the Scottish Government with paid positions, recognising the importance of its preventative approach to health and community cohesion, particularly among a demographic that is often overlooked and hard to reach.
Jason Schroeder’s pioneering work continues to uplift and connect men across Scotland with the slogan "Silent – No More”.
Under his leadership, the SMSA, with its small, dedicated staff team and trustees, has become a powerful force for change, enabling men to communicate their feelings in safe places and transforming isolation into active participation and camaraderie within their communities.
Since being established over a decade ago, the SMSA now supports over 200 Men’s Sheds across Scotland, serving more than 10,000 men and boasting over 4,500 individual members, making it Scotland’s largest member-led male health charity.
The movement promotes preventative health, wellbeing, and community engagement for all men over the age of eighteen, particularly those who have time on their hands due to retirement, shift work, being a veteran or being unemployed.
Jason Schroeder was awarded with a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) award at P&J Live, Aberdeen on Thursday 03 July.
Stories from our Summer 2025 graduates.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2024/7829-rgu-partnership-enables-new-energy-doctoral-programme-in-nigeria:
Friday 20 December 2024
The University has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Nigerian capacity-building agency for the energy industry, PTDF, as well as an agreement between the two organisations and the College of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Kaduna (CPESK) to deliver up to 45 split-site energy PhDs for Nigerian students over the next three years.
A senior Nigerian delegation visited RGU this week to officially sign the MoU and agreement that will see students on the three year-programme split their time between the University’s campus in Aberdeen and CPESK in Nigeria.
The agreement builds on RGU’s existing partnership with PTDF to increase international doctorial study opportunities for Nigerian students.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of RGU, said: “International partnership growth is integral to our global influence as we look to develop knowledge exchange and educational opportunities worldwide to support economic development.
“This agreement builds on a long-standing relationship between RGU and PTDF which has provided funding opportunities to study at RGU for over 400 Nigerian students.
We are committed to working in partnership with scholarship bodies and organisations overseas, and this new PhD programme recognises the importance of collaborating to create international doctoral pathways with Nigeria.
“We are grateful to have been able to further build on our ongoing relationship with PTDF, as well as have the opportunity to host a wide range of senior individuals from both the energy and education sectors in Nigeria.”
The delegation consisted of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources; Ahmed Galadima Aminu, Executive Secretary of PTDF; Chris Maiyaki, Ag Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission; and Dr.
Munir Zubairu Sirajo, Head, CPESK, while hosting from RGU was Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice Chancellor; and Donella Beaton, Vice Principal Economic Development.
In his remarks, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri reiterated the full support of the Nigerian government to this partnership initiative, which is in consonance with the country’s transnational education policy.
He emphasised the commitment of the Nigerian government to ensuring that the quality and standard of education PTDF scholars enjoy in UK is also delivered at CPESK.
Mr.
Ahmed Galadima Aminu, Executive Secretary PTDF, added: “The signing of the MoU and the Partnership Agreement is another exciting milestone in the long-term relationship PTDF and RGU have had.
RGU has always provided PTDF with the necessary support through its commercial arm, Univation.
Over 2 decades ago, in 2001 when the PTDF Overseas Scholarship Scheme (OSS), was at its infancy stage, Univation was the consultant for the OSS, a partnership which tremendously impacted on the scheme to grow as one of the best scholarships in the world.
“Indeed, we have taken many steps in the past to effectively utilise the potentials of CPESK and I can vividly recall the visit to RGU in Nov.
2016, the outcome of which refocused and shaped our initial thoughts to one where we committed to securing a university education licence from the National Universities Commission to run postgraduate programmes.”
Chris J.
Maiyaki, Acting Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission commented: “The MOU signing ceremony between Nigerian government officials at the highest level with officials of RGU, Aberdeen on the foreseen energy doctorate programme, lends credence to the paradigm shift and current priorities/efforts at the NUC aimed at spearheading the production of a critical mass of PhDs to drive critical thinking, cutting edge research and top notch postgraduate studies around the specifics of oil and gas capacity from some of the best academic traditions to be found in the British isle.
“It is a watershed and milestone game changing opportunity in our quest to fully implement the recently launched Nigerian guidelines on Transnational Education, as we collectively seek to showcase the power of innovative collaboration and opportunities.
We look forward to bringing to bear NUC’s regulatory citadel and a TNE ecosystem that ensures the delivery of TNE provisions that are of a comparable standard, sustainable and mutually beneficial in expanding access and broadening equity in higher education thereby scaling up the frontier of knowledge.
May this development be a true testament to the brighter days that lie ahead of our two higher education systems.”
Image 1 includes, L-R: Munir Zubairu Sirajo, Head, College of Petroleum and Energy Studies Kaduna; Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources; Ahmed Galadima Aminu, Executive Secretary of Petroleum Technology Development Fund; Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, RGU; and Dr.
Chris Maiyaki, Ag.
Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/architecture-construction-and-surveying-online-learning:
Online Learning Courses
Our online learning courses will provide you with invaluable knowledge and skills which are transferrable across a variety of industries.
The architecture, construction and surveying courses combine theory with practical application to ensure you have the skills to apply your knowledge appropriately and creatively.
Short Course - 15 Credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS points 7.5
Consider BIM and its applications for the built environment.
Explore BIM at the conceptual design stage; cross discipline design; shared BIM models; BIM during the construction stages; CDE, technical issues; virtual prototyping; BIM protocol; interoperability; building data storage and accessibility; smart data workflow: digital construction and transformation.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS points 7.5
This master level short course provides a critical evaluation of the inputs and outputs of every stage of the project lifecycle.
It identifies the duties and the role the PM plays in each phase.
The module emphasises the importance of the project early phases and the consideration of alternatives and value for money to produce a functional project that meets the requirements of the sponsor.
Design management involves organising innovative activity and constructing frameworks within which design takes place.
In that context, this course introduces to you design management as a process that encompasses creativity and innovation.
With project management tools to equip professionals with the right range of skills to tackle design management projects.
PgCert | PgDip | MRes | PhD
The Professional Doctorate is a flexible, practice-based research degree designed for experienced professionals who want to make a meaningful impact in their field.
Unlike a traditional PhD, this programme is tailored for working professionals who are ready to undertake rigorous research directly within their own professional context.
This master level short course explores complex interaction between the information any project needs, in addition to the value and type of communication required around that information.
The course further studies the extent of useful work by the project manager in terms of supporting both human and non-human behaviours.
This master level short course allows you to critically assess, within a problem-solving environment, the processes and strategies undertaken by project managers to define, plan control, and deliver functional projects
Within Project Management risk identification, analyses, evaluation and management is all about recognising risk as far as possible and then determining both how this risk may affect the project, the project team, the environment and communities.
Your studies will include an introduction to sustainable development within the construction industry, in addition to a critical analysis of the challenges involved in developing and enhancing the built environment with responsibility to the local and global environment, society and communities.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/business-and-management-online-learning:
Our business and management online course offering includes degrees across general business areas and specialist subjects, as well as our MBA Programme.
Our courses provide you with the ability to apply management practices, strategic thinking and leadership practice in a variety of different sectors.
This course will allow students to develop knowledge and skills in the principles and practice of starting a new business encompassing key components required to compile a sustainable business plan.
This short course takes a practical, hands-on approach to classification (using the Dewey Decimal Classification and the Universal Decimal Classification) and to cataloguing (using the MARC, AACR2, and RDA standards).
Students will classify items, using online WebDewey and OCLC Online, and catalogue using the RDA Toolkit and OCLC Worldcat.
Learn how to unlock deeper insights from the data available to you to inform future decisions.
Explore world energy markets and the evolution of, and challenges facing, the carbon economy.
Consider the role the economics of energy transition plays in the decision making within the energy industry.
Examine the direction and pace of the clean energy transition and sustainability.
Explore energy, sustainability, and climate issues, assess supply dynamics, and analyse policy to support the transition to a low carbon economy.
Explore the technical, financial, commercial, and contractual activities involved in energy transition.
For women who are keen to grow their businesses this course will empower you to explore viable opportunities, understand customers, generate creative ideas and consider risks.
During the course you will create a strategy and a plan to take you to the next level and realise your growth aspirations.
This short course explores critically different theoretical developments and practical applications in the field of Information Seeking Behaviour.
Students will examine the creation, use, evaluation and ethical dissemination of information via different sources and tools.
The course emphasises the value of information and digital literacy in academic, workplace, and everyday life settings.
Learn to assess the techniques, tools, processes and strategies undertaken by project managers to define, plan, monitor, evaluate, control and deliver project requirements.
Learn how integrated supply chains contribute to the achievement of organisational efficiency and effectiveness.
Explore how multinational enterprises formulate and implement responsible and sustainable strategies that respond to the grand societal challenges of our time exploring volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA).
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 11
This short course explores the nature, provision and management of library and information services in a variety of contexts, emphasising the importance of effective performance evaluation and decision-making and provides an understanding of collection and service management.
Strong emphasis is placed on the needs and characteristics of user communities.
This course will provide an overview of the key principles, practices and concepts of project management operations, the tools and techniques used and will provide an overall understanding of the broad project environment.
Learn about the key principles of risk management in the professional working environment.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/communication-media-and-marketing-online-learning:
Our online learning courses offer you the flexibility to study around your other commitments.
By studying one of our communication, media & marketing courses you will undertake a blend of both theory based and practical learning, giving you the opportunity to use these transferrable skills upon your graduation.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/energy-online-learning:
Whether you are looking to upskill or reskill, we offer a range of quality assured degrees that are continually developed to meet the demands of employers and their changing industries.
Study at your convenience and benefit from our teaching excellence, wide range of academic expertise and collaborations with industry.
Invest in your future and take your career to the next level with an online degree.
The CCUS Short Course imparts a thorough grasp of CCUS principles, technologies, and applications for curbing GHG emissions.
It empowers professionals, researchers, and policymakers to engage adeptly in CCUS projects.
Explore machine learning and computer vision for image/video analysis with real case studies.
This course offers a strong geothermal energy foundation, covering science, technology, and business aspects.
It equips participants to utilize geothermal energy for decarbonization, assess market opportunities, and fulfil UN SDGs 7 & 11.
This course highlights hydrogen's global importance in the energy transition, covering production, storage, and usage technologies.
It equips participants with skills to advance UN Sustainable Development Goals, fostering hydrogen-powered sustainability.
PGCert - 60 credits at SCQF level 11
The PG Certificate focuses on the Energy Transition of the UK’s and global energy sector.
It develops core knowledge of legal and policy aspects of Energy Transition, including the North Sea transition, climate change, carbon capture and storage, renewable energy, electrification of the extraction process, and the changing industry and regulatory environment.
Explore the operation of renewable systems and the impact and challenges involved.
To develop knowledge of concepts and principles applicable to wind energy extraction, design and operation of offshore wind turbines under different environmental conditions, and an awareness of the role of offshore wind energy in decarbonising global economies.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/engineering-online-learning:
Our quality assured degrees are continually developed to meet the demands of industry.
Delivered through our virtual learning environment CampusMoodle , you will have full and open access to your tutors, relevant industry professionals and other online students across the world, ensuring your student experience is positive and valuable.
Find out more about our online engineering courses and how to apply:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/health-and-sport-science-online-learning:
Our online learning courses are delivered online through the University's virtual learning environment.
By undertaking a health and sport science course via online learning, you will have access to teaching materials including lecture notes and course guides, as well as be able to interact with lecturers and other students.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS points 7.5
To enable the student to develop a critical understanding of the theories, principles and concepts required to become a leader within advanced district nursing.
This module sets out to enable students to demonstrate a critical understanding of law and ethics in the context of health
and social care.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 7
Gain a certificate of competence in intravenous administration at a pace and time that fits in with your work commitments and home life.
Having a recognised qualification in intravenous administration allows you to operate seamlessly in a variety of clinical environments, for example as a radiographer allowing you to administer iodinated contrast and radioisotopes in various imaging modalities
This module provides a means to create a bespoke learning framework to support the development of specific professional or clinical skills required for an advanced practice role.
Develop and enhance your digital literacy skills within health and social care.
This course will equip you with the knowledge and skills to support digital transformation and improve the health and well being of people through considering the design and delivery of digital technologies within your area of professional practice.
This module is designed to equip registered healthcare professionals, whether currently working in aesthetics or aspiring to enter the field, with a comprehensive understanding of the fundamental and theoretical principles of contemporary aesthetic practice.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 8
This course provides students with an understanding of the food matrix, macro- and micro-nutrients, energy balance, and the relevance of history, geography, psychology, sociology and economics in understanding food patterns and food choice.
Develop and enhance your ability to support the health and wellbeing of children, young people and families.
Gain the knowledge and skills to analyse the bio-psycho-social factors that influence children, young people and family's development and wellbeing.
Explore how to assess these influences holistically and consider evidence-based strategies to offer meaningful support.
Understand public health promotion with evidence-based models and approaches.
Develop your understanding of basic anatomy and physiology throughout the lifespan and in relation to common health conditions.
Do you want to learn more about inequalities and the complex interplay of factors which can cause and perpetuate inequalities in populations and communities, from a global, national and local perspective of health?
Understand the interventions available to improve individual health and wellbeing.
This short course will enable you to extend your scope of practice to include the use of injection therapy.
This course is designed to enable you to develop an understanding of the key competencies relating to injection therapy including clinical knowledge, decision-making, pharmacology and the evidence base.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 9 | ECTS Points 7.5
Develop the leadership skills needed to drive change in health and social care.
Explore leadership theories, management approaches, and quality improvement models.
Learn to navigate strategic, cultural, and organisational challenges while applying change theory to real-world practice.
This module promotes your ability to lead with confidence.
This module sets out to enable students to critically reflect on leadership within the context of health and social care.
This module sets out to enable students to critically explore the theories, principles, and concepts which underpin leading improvement in health and wellbeing among populations Nationally and Internationally.
To enable practitioners to develop a critical understanding of the theories, principles and concepts required to become a leader within advanced practice.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 8
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of metabolic demands and nutritional requirements at key stages of the lifespan, and introduce evidence relating nutrients, diet and lifestyle-related factors to health and chronic disease prevention.
Short Course - 5 credits at SCQF level 11
This course aims to equip you with the knowledge and understanding to underpin clinical decision making in assessment of patients with musculoskeletal minor injuries in an accident and emergency environment.
The course is aimed at honours graduates in Diagnostic Radiography, Nursing or a relevant Allied Health Profession with experience in imaging or treatment of minor injuries.
This course aims to equip you with the knowledge, understanding and skill to underpin clinical decision making in non-medical discharge of patients with musculoskeletal minor injuries in an accident and emergency setting.
This course is aimed at honours graduates in Diagnostic Radiography, Nursing or a relevant Allied Health Profession with experience in imaging or treatment of minor injuries.
This module sets out to enable students to explore and critically analyse contemporary professional leadership practice in their area of health or social care practice in order that they can develop a critical perspective of professional development needs in a practice environment.
This module will increase your critical awareness of the principal concepts of health improvement and the range of approaches used in practice.
This will be relevant to the role of the health professional in promoting health and wellbeing and preventing adverse effects on health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/law-online-learning:
Our law courses will equip you with the knowledge and relevant skills to enhance your professional career in a range of legal environments.
Our online learning law courses are delivered online through the University's virtual learning environment.
Adjudication Decision Writing is a fully online short course.
In this course, you will learn about the key parts of a construction adjudicator’s decision, how to analyse the facts and legal issues in the adjudication, and explore the legal and formal requirements for a decision.
Arbitral Award Writing is a short course which is taught fully online.
Enhance your business knowledge and understanding of contractual obligations.
Study the laws surrounding climate change adaptation and mitigation.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/nursing-and-midwifery-online-learning:
We offer a range of nursing and midwifery courses through online learning.
A number of these courses can be undertaken as stand-alone modules, to build upon your skills and expertise.
Our online learning courses are delivered through the University's virtual learning environment.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 9 | ECTS points 7.5
This module will promote the provision of informed and supportive strategies for effective absence management in the workplace.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 9 | 7.5 ECTS points
This module is part of the Masters Community Children Nurse (SPQ) programme.
Delivered and assessed online this module prepares practitioners to develop a critical understanding of the theories, principles, and concepts in relation to contemporary community children's nursing.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS Points 7.5
This course will prepare you to independently undertake a clinical history and examination and critically explore the impact of pathophysiological processes and their impact on patient care to aid clinical decision making.
Delivered and assessed online, this module prepares practitioners to perform a holistic assessment of children and young people.
You will apply a focused, systematic approach to clinical history taking and physical assessment, along with necessary skills for potential escalation and referral.
Additionally, participants will gain a deeper understanding of complex childhood presentation.
This course aims to develop practitioners knowledge of key clinical investigations including; Blood tests and analysis, Arterial Blood Gas analysis, ECG analysis and the fundamentals of X-Ray interpretation.
This module is suitable for healthcare professionals in any setting, if you are looking to extend your knowledge on pain management to benefit your clients.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 7 | ECTS points 7.5
Enhance your digital skills to transform health and social care!
This module equips you with the tools to communicate effectively, share best practices, protect personal data, and tackle digital exclusion.
Gain experience in using technology to deliver person-centred care and make a real impact.
This module is suitable for you if you are a registered nurse, management professional, or have an interest in Occupational Health practice.
This module will enable you to develop a knowledge and understanding of the key principles of health surveillance.
Short Course -  15 credits at SCQF level 10 | ECTS points 7.5
This module is suitable for you if you are a registered nurse, management professional, or have an interest in Occupational Health Management.
This module will enable you to explore, analyse and appraise leadership theory and practice within the context of healthcare.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 9 | 7.5 ECTS points
This module will cement your foundations of academic learning associated to your healthcare practice, demonstrating evidence based critical reflection, thinking and writing.
This module provides a holistic theoretical knowledge base for the student to enable you to develop your role in participating in the management of individuals with long term conditions.
Short Course -  15 credits at SCQF level 9 | ECTS points 7.5
This module will enable you to promote the provision of informed and supportive strategies for mental wellbeing at work.
This module will enable you to develop the ability to understand and contribute to the strategic management of Occupational Health.
Short Course -  15 credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS points 7.5
This course will enable you to critically analyse pathological processes to disease management and the impact of investigations to form an immediate management plan within the remit of advanced practice.
This module is part of the MSc Advancing Practice programme but can also be undertaken as a stand-alone module.
This module will enable you to demonstrate a broad knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles and concepts relevant to occupational health.
Critically analyse the development of professional practice within your specialist area, planning an area of quality improvement for practice.
The aim of this module is to enable you to develop the ability to critically analyse research methods and critically review literature to inform an area of practice.
This course is a practice programme, however it can also be undertaken as a standalone module.
This course will provide a stimulating learning opportunity for you if you are in the field of the unplanned care for acutely ill/injured child or young person and wish to advance your knowledge and skills and enhance the effectiveness of your work.
This module will enable you to develop knowledge and understanding of health promotion within the workplace.
This module will enable you to develop a critical understanding of risk management in the workplace.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/pharmacy-and-life-sciences-online-learning:
By undertaking a pharmacy and life science course via online learning, you will have access to teaching materials including lecture notes and course guides, as well as be able to interact with lecturers and other students.
Our career enhancing courses will equip you with the skills and knowledge required to excel within this exciting sector.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/online-learning-courses/social-studies-online-learning:
Our online learning courses offer you the opportunity to study around your other responsibilities, while still providing you with an excellent qualification which will set you up for the working environment.
We will provide you with access to course materials as well as the ability to interact with lecturers and other students.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/undiscoveredaberdeen:
Discover UnDiscovered Aberdeen - your guide to unique experiences, secret spots, and local treasures across the city.
Aberdeen, known as the Silver City with the Golden Sands, is a thriving hub of the UK’s energy sector.
It’s surrounded by Aberdeenshire, a region rich in history, royal heritage, and breathtaking landscapes filled with fairy-tale castles and outdoor adventures.
The North East of Scotland offers the perfect mix of city life and natural beauty.
In Aberdeen, you’ll find a vibrant urban centre, while stunning coastlines and countryside are just moments away.
Whether it’s hiking in the hills or sipping artisan coffee while spotting dolphins, this region has something for everyone.
Explore the place Robert Gordon University proudly calls home.
Aberdeen, the Granite City, is a dynamic blend of industrial heritage and forward-thinking innovation.
Nestled between the rivers Don and Dee in North-East Scotland, its population of around 228,000 enjoys the best of both worlds - an energetic city centre with urban conveniences, yet moments away from stunning coastlines and countryside.
Renowned for its silvery architecture and coastal charm, Aberdeen consistently ranks among the UK’s top-performing cities for jobs, skills, and quality of life.
From a diverse food scene and buzzing nightlife to outdoor adventures, year-round festivals, and rich cultural attractions, the city has something for everyone.
Recently, it was the only Scottish city featured in Condé Nast Traveller’s Best Places to Go in the UK 2025.
Well-connected to the rest of Scotland, the UK, and Europe, Aberdeen is a gateway to new experiences - whether that’s a scenic Highlands escape or a quick city break in Amsterdam.
And while the weather can be unpredictable, one thing’s for sure: Aberdeen is a cold city with a warm heart.
Aberdeen ranks top in the UK (and top in Scotland) for affordability (QS Best Student Cities 2026) and the most affordable place to buy in the UK (Nationwide Affordability Index 2025) thanks to our lower living costs.
Cost of Living
From rugged coastlines and golden beaches to rolling farmland and mountain peaks, Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire take you on a breathtaking journey from coast to countryside.
Whether you're exploring fairy-tale castles or immersing yourself in the great outdoors, adventure is never far away.
Just an hour from the city, the Cairngorms National Park and Royal Deeside offer endless opportunities for outdoor enthusiasts, from mountain biking and hiking to skiing and paddleboarding.
The Deeside Way lets you walk, run, or cycle from Aberdeen to Ballater, while the coastal town of Stonehaven, home to the iconic Dunnottar Castle, invites visitors to enjoy beachside activities like kayaking, wild swimming, and wood-fired saunas.
This perfect balance of city energy and rural beauty makes Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire a truly special place to explore.
Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire are steeped in history and culture, with centuries-old architecture, world-class museums, and a thriving festival scene.
From live performances at P&J Live, His Majesty’s Theatre, and The Lemon Tree to exhibitions at the iconic Aberdeen Art Gallery, there’s always something to experience.
The region’s rich heritage comes to life in museums like the Maritime Museum and Gordon Highlanders, while green spaces such as Duthie Park and Seaton Park offer a peaceful retreat within the city.
Festivals bring Aberdeen’s creative energy to the forefront, from Spectra, Scotland’s festival of light, to NuArt, where world-class street artists transform the city’s walls into an open-air gallery.
The Highland Games, including the famous Braemar Gathering, celebrate Scotland’s traditions, while year-round events showcase food, drink, arts, comedy, and more - ensuring there’s always something to discover in this vibrant corner of Scotland.
Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire are renowned for their world-class food and drink, with miles of coastline, fertile farmland, and crystal-clear rivers providing the finest local produce.
From prized Aberdeen Angus beef and fresh seafood to venison and game from great estates, the region is a haven for food lovers.
The city’s dining scene is just as diverse, offering everything from local independents to Michelin Guide restaurants, serving up everything from surf to turf and brunch to dessert.
Dish and Tell is RGU’s very own series celebrating some of Aberdeen’s finest food and drink spots.
Follow along on our social channels to discover where we’ve been tasting and telling next.
Aberdeenshire is Scotland’s Castle Country, home to more castles per acre than anywhere else in the UK.
From grand royal residences to mysterious ruins, these landmarks tell the story of Scotland’s past, offering a glimpse into centuries of history.
This dramatic landscape has also caught the eye of filmmakers, featuring in productions like The Crown, The Dark Knight Rises, The Queen, and Peaky Blinders, bringing a cinematic touch to the region’s rich heritage.
Beyond its castles, Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire boast breathtaking coastlines with vast sandy beaches and rugged shores.
Just a short drive from the city, Balmedie’s rolling dunes stretch for miles, while Newburgh Beach is home to a thriving seal colony.
Aberdeen Beach Boulevard offers a classic seaside experience, while the historic fishing village of Footdee, Fittie to locals, adds a touch of maritime charm.
Whether you’re after a peaceful walk or a bracing sea breeze, the region’s stunning beaches provide the perfect escape.
Beyond its stunning castles and coastline, Aberdeen offers a dynamic mix of outdoor adventure, shopping, and entertainment.
The city’s bustling shopping scene includes high-street favourites, independent boutiques, and the vibrant Aberdeen Christmas Village during the festive season.
With world-class golf courses, a lively arts and music scene, and a packed calendar of festivals, there’s always something to see and do in this vibrant city.
Looking for your next adventure?
Our UnDiscovered Aberdeen map is packed with our favourite spots — from cosy cafés and top food spots to stunning beaches, castles, and hidden gems.
Whether you're new to the city or rediscovering old favourites, you’ll never run out of places to explore in the place we call home.
Q&A with Julia Bryce for UnDiscovered Aberdeen Julia Bryce is one of Aberdeen’s most recognisable faces when it comes to food, drink, and all things delicious.
A proud Aberdonian, Julia has spent over a decade writing about Scotland’s incredible food scene, from hidden gems to the best bites.
Why Aberdeen?
UnDiscovered Aberdeen by Bob Keiller I have visited many countries and many places and have been asked, “in an ideal world, where would you choose to live?” The North East in six senses - UnDiscovered Aberdeen by Chris Foy Before I get started, full disclosure:  I am CEO of the regional tourism agency.
It is my job to sing the praises of this corner of Scotland.
So, am I the most authentic voice to blog on the merits of living in the North-east of Scotland?
I am sure that thousands can do just as good a job as I.
Julia Bryce is one of Aberdeen’s most recognisable faces when it comes to food, drink, and all things delicious.
I have visited many countries and many places and have been asked, “in an ideal world, where would you choose to live?”
Before I get started, full disclosure:  I am CEO of the regional tourism agency.
Aberdeen offers the best of both worlds, where vibrant city life meets breathtaking countryside.
Whether you prefer the charm of cobbled streets or the tranquillity of rolling fields, urban and rural living sit side by side.
The city boasts a thriving shopping scene, world-class golf courses, and a packed calendar of festivals, while the Shire offers endless opportunities for outdoor adventure, from mountain biking and hillwalking to paddleboarding along the coast.
With a fantastic food and drink scene, immediate access to nature, and a high quality of life, Aberdeen is the perfect place to live, work, study - and most importantly, call home.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/content_page/item/6913-inspiration-for-the-best-spring-in-aberdeen-and-aberdeenshire:
We’re so lucky to call Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire home, and as the days start to get longer and the nights lighter, there are endless opportunities to explore our colourful surroundings this spring .
Why not take some inspiration from this blog and let us know what you get up to by tagging us in your social media posts using #RGU?
Take some time to relax in our beautifully bloomed parks and gardens.
Take your pick from Seaton Park, Hazlehead Park, Duthie Park, or insta-worthy Johnston Gardens.
A post shared by VisitAberdeenshire (@visitabdn)
They really do look like they have stepped straight out of a fairytale!
If you’re looking for a castle close to the city and one you can get to via bus, check out Dunnottar Castle or Crathes Castle.
With the warmer weather comes even more opportunity to discover the expansive great outdoors all around us.
Do you know 4 of the UK’s 5 highest mountains are in Aberdeenshire?
You can even get out on the water; try rowing, paddleboarding or surfing.
Head to a beach in Aberdeenshire or a park in the city or grab a takeaway from one of the epic foodie trucks along Aberdeen Beach.
If you’d rather stay indoors for now, try Greyhope Bay and you might even spot dolphins play as you tuck into something delicious.
Check out some events taking place this spring:
A post shared by Nuart Aberdeen (@nuartaberdeen)
Have a look at the VisitAberdeenshire’s ‘what’s on’ guide to see what else is happening this spring in Aberdeen.
Got time for a quick fun fact before you head off to read the next blog?
Aberdeen is 1 degree warmer than the Scottish average and enjoys half the annual rainfall of Miami!
Find out more about the exciting things you can do and places you can visit this spring on the VisitAberdeenshire website .
5 things to do as a student in Aberdeen
Top 6 summer sports and activities in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire
Things to do and places to eat this winter in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire
Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive.
Type your email…
Subscribe
Continue reading

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/content_page/item/8032-top-6-summer-sports-and-activities-in-aberdeen-and-aberdeenshire:
Navigate the North Sea,  explore the region by land, or simply gather with friends to play some sports with our top 6 of the best summer activities in the region.
RGU is not affiliated with and does not endorse any of the businesses listed in the post.
This post contains no paid for content.
With 165 miles of outstanding coastline, Aberdeenshire is considered to have the best waves in the UK.
And, unlike the popular surfing areas of Cornwall, our North East beaches are rarely as crowded.
You might think that the North Sea is too cold for surfing, but Aberdeen Beach is a popular spot for surfers all year-round!
If you’re new to surfing, summer is the ideal time to practice, with more sunny days and higher temperatures.
Sandend Beach, in the North of the region, is another popular area for surfing.
Around there, you will find Suds Surf School , who provide lessons for everyone, from beginners to experts.
They can also lend you some equipment, so no need to invest in surfing gear at first.
Once you feel comfortable, you can venture out on your own to surf the North Sea waves!
Just remember to check the weather and the surf report for your chosen area before you do.
A post shared by sudssurfschool (@sudssurfschool)
📌 Sandend Beach is situated North of Aberdeen, just a bit further away from the quaint village of Portsoy.
The drive from Aberdeen to Sandend Beach will take you around one and a half hour.
Getting there via public transport is a bit more difficult, but doable!
You can check your options on Stagecoach .
If you want to stay in town, Aberdeen Beach is only a 20-minute walk away from Union Street in the city centre.
If you still want to feel the rush of adventure, but want to admire the majestic landscapes of Aberdeenshire at the same time, paddle boarding is made for you.
Even if you’ve never tried it before, you will get the hang of it in no time!
People of all ages and fitness levels can learn how to paddle board in just a few hours.
And if you don’t feel confident enough to stand up, you can simply cruise while sitting down.
Stonehaven , a small town south of Aberdeen, is the perfect place for paddle boarding experiences.
You can rent a paddle board from Stonehaven Paddleboarding and coast around the cliffs of the harbour and towards Dunnottar Castle .
There, you can gaze up at the stunning landmark overlooking the North Sea.
You can also go on a sunrise or sunset tour to experience even more unique views!
Keep an eye out for dolphins and seals while you’re cruising on your paddle board as they have been known to come say “Hello” to many explorers.
A post shared by Stonehaven Paddleboarding (@stonehaven_paddleboarding)
📌 Stonehaven is situated South of Aberdeen and is easily accessible from town.
The town is only a 20-minute car ride away!
You can also hop on a Stagecoach bus (line X7) that will get you to Stonehaven in 40 minutes.
The town is also accessible by train , which will take you just over 15 minutes.
For a similar experience to paddle boarding, you can try kayaking or rowing.
With a kayak, you will use a double-bladed paddle and face the direction of travel.
With a row boat, you will use oars attached to your craft and be back-facing the direction of travel.
Just like paddle boarding, rowing and kayaking will give you the choice between getting a good workout or slowly cruising on the water.
Cullen Sea School is a popular destination for coastal rowing and kayaking sessions.
If you decide to kayak, you will be able to choose between adventuring out to sea or exploring a loch, which is recommended if you are a beginner.
With coastal rowing, you will have to take on the North Sea in a group of at least 4 people.
This is ideal if you are looking for a more action-packed activity and seek the exhilarating thrill of rowing in more adverse conditions!
A post shared by Cullen Sea School (@cullenseaschool)
📌 Cullen is situated just West of Sandend beach, simply follow the same itinerary.
If you don’t want to travel as far, Stonehaven Paddleboarding also offers kayak rentals.
If you want to keep rowing beyond the summer, you can also join the students’ rowing club at RGU .
Each year, a team of skilful RGU rowers compete in the Aberdeen Boat Race where they exhibit their talent on the River Dee.
If you would rather not get wet, you should take advantage of the nicer days to go cycling.
With many quaint villages outside of Aberdeen, long golden beaches or even quiet routes in town, there are many opportunities to get on your bike and explore.
One of the most famous cycling route in Aberdeen is the 41-mile Deeside Way .
This path follows the line of the Old Royal Deeside Railway and can take you from Aberdeen all the way to Ballater .
Along the way, you will be able to stop in Drumoak, Banchory, and Aboyne.
Keep in mind that this path is also used by pedestrians, and sometimes even horses, so be careful not to go too fast.
📌 You can start cycling on Deeside Way from Duthie Park.
It only takes 35 minutes to walk from the RGU campus to Duthie Park.
If you don’t own a bike, you can rent one from RGU Go Green’s Bike Pad !
This student-led group offers bike rentals for a semester or a year.
During the academic year, you can even drop your bike with their team at Woolmanhill for repairs and maintenance.
Summer is the perfect occasion to spend more time outside, but you don’t need to do anything too adventurous to enjoy the weather!
There are several sports that can be played outside when the sun comes out.
For example, you could rent a tennis court to play with a friend, there are plenty around Aberdeen.
Or if you want to combine sports and leisure, why not bring your own beach volley net to Aberdeen Beach?
This would be a good opportunity to exercise and lie down on the sand once you’re tired.
The green spaces around the RGU Campus are also an ideal place to play ball games, such as football.
You might have noticed the #Yes Ball Games signs on campus which have been  installed by The Denis Law Legacy Trust, who offer the Streetsport programme in partnership with RGU.
These signs encourage the community to play ball games outside, so don’t hesitate!
If you would like to participate in sports or exercise during the academic year, you should browse the services that RGU Sport offers or think about joining a sports club .
RGU students also benefit from a free gym membership, with access to a wide range of equipment and group classes!
Visit the RGU website for more information.
Epic adventures – 6 winter sports to try in the North East of Scotland
Hiking and walking routes for all levels in Aberdeenshire
My Favourite Adventure Spots in Aberdeenshire
[…] Top 6 summer sports and activities in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire […]

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/content_page/item/8033-explore-aberdeen-and-aberdeenshire-through-surprising-facts:
While studying at RGU , you will have plenty of opportunities to explore the city and the region.
A post shared by Majestic Aberdeenshire (@visitabdn)
Did you know that Aberdeenshire is home to 263 castles ?
The most famous one is of course Balmoral Castle, the summer residence of the Royal Family, described by Queen Victoria as “my dear paradise in the Highlands”.
But there are many more castles in Aberdeenshire that retrace Scotland’s rich history, and have even inspired famous storytellers .
You can download the Aberdeenshire Castle Trail to discover medieval fortresses, ancient clifftop ruins, mansions and more!
You can also read our blog “My Favourite Castles in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire” to get an idea of what you can expect before you start exploring.
The most famous of these historical rings of standing stones might be Stonehenge, in England, but you will find plenty more in Aberdeenshire!
Home to 150 stone circles, the region even has its own unique style: the Recumbent Stone Circle.
Dating back to the prehistoric era, no one knows for sure what their purpose was.
But, considering the huge effort put into their construction, we can assume they played an important role.
With one in ten circles located in Aberdeenshire, it’s easy to organise a Stone Circles Trail .
Majestic Aberdeenshire even has a top 10 list of the best Stone Circles in the region to plan your itinerary.
Hazlehead Park , on the outskirts of Aberdeen, is a popular destination for walks, sports games and picnics.
It’s also one of the oldest properties in Aberdeen, gifted by King Robert the Bruce in 1319.
It was a country estate until the Council bought back the land in 1920 and opened it to the public.
The Provost Alexander Maze in Hazlehead Park is the oldest planted maze in Scotland.
It was opened by Lord Provost’s children in 1935.
If you visit the park, why not try to find your way to the centre of the maze?
You only have to walk 443 meters to reach the centre, but only if you follow the right path!
A post shared by Codonas 🎳🎡🎢🍔🍕🥤🏝 (@codonas_aberdeen)
Opened in 1970, Codona’s Amusement Park is Scotland’s largest permanent funfair.
Prior to the funfair’s opening, the Codona family ran a touring fairground with an array of actors, dancers and entertainers.
They would travel across the UK and around popular sites in Aberdeen, including Provost Skene House and Seaton Park .
The modern-day funfair is situated next to Aberdeen Beach and offers a variety of activities for families.
From rollercoasters, a swinging pirate ship and a Ferris wheel, to mini-golf courses, go-karts and arcade games, there are endless attractions to choose from.
A post shared by Aberdeen Football Club (@aberdeenfc)
Pittodrie Stadium is the home of Aberdeen Football Club , founded in 1903.
In 1931, a sunken shelter was installed at the stadium, which provided space for staff and team members to sit near the field.
This marked the invention of dugouts, now installed in many stadiums across the world.
After a major blaze incident in 1971 that left the stadium badly damaged, it was rebuilt and became Scotland’s first all-seater stadium in 1978.
This innovative change came a decade before most other clubs in the UK even started considering the idea.
It might have brought the club some luck, as they went on to win the European Cup and the European Super Cup in 1983.
To this day, they remain the only Scottish football team to have won 2 European trophies!
The Royal Horticulture Society Britain in Bloom is an annual gardening competition where towns, villages and cities fight for a winning title.
They are assessed through the following criteria: horticultural excellence, environmental responsibility, and community participation.
The competition is extremely popular, with over 1600 communities participating every year.
Despite the fierce competition, Aberdeen has managed to stand out from the crowd and has won the title over 10 times!
The Granite City’s success even forced The Royal Horticultural Society to invent a rule that prevents winning communities to participate in the competition the following year.
The wins are mostly credited to Johnston Gardens and David Welch Winter Gardens in Duthie Park, one of Europe’s largest indoor gardens and Scotland’s third most visited garden.
There are plenty of things to discover about Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire and learning more about the culture and history of the region will lead you to exciting adventures!
To learn more about life in Aberdeen, head over to RGU’s website .
Aberdeen City Council also developed an app providing different trails to explore the Granite City.
You can find out more on their website or download the GoABZ app on your phone.
Ten facts about Aberdeen
Why we are in love with Aberdeen
5 things to do within 30 minutes of Aberdeen
[…] Explore Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire through surprising facts […]

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/degree-shows:
Our annual Degree Shows are one of the most exciting and inspiring events in our calendar, showcasing and celebrating the achievements and talents of our final year students.
The Degree Shows highlight the creativity, innovation and talent of our students, spanning from art and design to architecture and built environment.
It is a fantastic opportunity for aspiring artists, designers, architects and architectural technologists to present their work publicly to friends, family, industry and members of the public, before they embark in the world of work.
Gray's Degree Show Capturing the talents and achievements of our final year students at Gray’s School of Art.
Scott Sutherland School End of Year Shows The Scott Sutherland School's End of Year Shows is an annual highlight in the calendar, celebrating the talents and achievements of our students.
Capturing the talents and achievements of our final year students at Gray’s School of Art.
The Scott Sutherland School's End of Year Shows is an annual highlight in the calendar, celebrating the talents and achievements of our students.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/rgu-talk:
Launched in March 2018, RGU Talk is dedicated to sharing stories from across the RGU community – from impactful research and student successes to learning about the initiatives that are making a difference on campus and in wider society.
With new episodes released every fortnight, RGU Talk is the place to go for diving behind the headlines and finding out more about the people working to change our tomorrow.
If you have a story you'd like to share with the RGU community, email campaigns@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/destination-guide:
Often overlooked, it’s Scotland’s third-largest city and home to two vibrant universities, the 2025 Scottish Cup-winning football team, AFC, and this July, it proudly welcomes the iconic Tall Ships as a host city.
Whether you're a local or a first-time visitor, you might be surprised by just how much Aberdeen has to offer.
Think dramatic coastlines, rolling countryside, and storybook castles.
If it’s outdoor adventure you’re after, you’re in the right place.
More into food and drink?
You’re in luck.
Aberdeen is home to a wealth of local producers whose creations are enjoyed around the world.
Not sure where to begin?
Don’t worry, we’ve pulled together a comprehensive guide to Aberdeen City and Shire to make planning your visit easy and inspiring.
Fill in our online form to download RGU’s Destination Guide and get that trip in the diary!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/our-leadership/the-executive/executive-members/professor-nick-fyfe:
Professor Nick Fyfe is an internationally recognised researcher in the field of policing and criminal justice who has held positions at universities in the UK, Europe and New Zealand.
Prior to joining Robert Gordon University in March 2021 Nick was Associate Dean for Research and then Dean of the School of Social Sciences at the University of Dundee.
Between 2006 and 2018, he was also founding Director of the Scottish Institute for Policing Research, a pioneering interdisciplinary collaboration between 14 universities, Police Scotland and the Scottish Police Authority.
The Institute has established Scotland as an international centre of excellence in interdisciplinary policing research and plays a major role in supporting knowledge exchange between researchers and practitioners.
In 2014 he received the Distinguished Achievement Award from the Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy at George Mason University in the United States and since 2017  he has been a Visiting Professor at the Norwegian Police University College.
In 2020 he was elected to the fellowship of the UK’s Academy of Social Sciences in recognition of his outstanding contributions to research and the application of social science to policy, education, and society.
Supported by funding from UK research councils and government, Nick’s career has seen him carry out research on a range of policing related topics.
This has included the first ever in-depth evaluation of a police witness protection programme and an international review of measures to facilitate witness co-operation in organised crime investigations; a major study of police responses to missing person cases which has informed the development of good practice guidance on the training and deployment of officers; and leading a 4 year evaluation of the impacts and implications of the reform of police and fire and rescue services in Scotland.
Nick is passionate about promoting interdisciplinarity and the public value of research and is currently a member of the Scottish Funding Council’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and a Trustee of the UK Police Foundation and on the Board of the Scottish Policy and Research Exchange.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/our-strategy/our-values:
Our Strategy
The values are integral to the university’s core principles and standards and informs the way it operates.
These values are embedded in every aspect of the organisation and define what is expected and accepted at RGU.
We have the confidence to recognise and realise opportunities for growth and development, responding constructively, flexibly and positively to challenges and change.
We show concern for others and communicate effectively; we are engaging, friendly and professional.
We foster an atmosphere of trust and act consistently; people deliver on their promises and demonstrate honesty and commitment in everything they say and do.
We value the benefits of working in partnership, recognise complementary strengths and build and maintain effective and productive working relationships.
We strive to facilitate curiosity, creativity and new thinking so that our staff and students are equipped with the knowledge and skills required to prosper.
We create an enterprising mindset across our University community, encouraging innovation, initiative, and impact in everything we do.
We have an unwavering commitment to creating an inclusive environment that values diversity and ensures everyone can engage fully, contribute meaningfully, and reach their full potential
We constantly look for and implement improved ways of working, contribute new ideas, and engage within and across teams to solve problems.
We listen to other people’s views, treat everyone with respect, and challenge unacceptable behaviour in others.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/sustainability/sustainability-at-rgu:
Sustainability
There are plenty of opportunities to get involved in Sustainability at RGU!
Whether you’re staff or student, interested in biodiversity, environmental awareness or innovation, volunteering or societies, there’s something for everyone.
Stand out events so far in 2025 include:
We are committed to playing our role in a more sustainable future by building economic growth, addressing environmental challenges, and promoting an inclusive society that improves quality of life and creates equal opportunities for all.
The University’s Strategy drives our activity to create a more sustainable future both for our own community and wider society.
The staff and student body overseeing the University’s commitment to deliver sustainability.
RGU is recognised annually for its drive towards a more sustainable future after making its debut in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact rankings.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/sustainability/our-journey-to-net-zero:
RGU is committed to addressing challenges associated with global sustainability and creating a more sustainable future by protecting our environment, minimising our carbon footprint to meet net zero targets.
Operationally, the University is developing a fabric first approach to ensure the energy efficiency and sustainability of all our buildings and campus operations.
As a Public Body, we report our emissions annually as part of our Public Sector Climate Change Reporting, which can be found online at the Sustainable Scotland Network .
The University has waterless urinals, which are helping save more than one million litres of water a year.
Sales of ONE water in our cafeterias, where part of the sale goes to fund wells in Africa, have led to RGU supporting two wells.
The Sir Ian Wood Building has a ground source heat pump which is working to supply heating around the building.
Our estates team use electric grounds equipment with a view to reducing our reliance on petrol powered apparatus completely.
One of RGU's key priorities is to reduce the overall environmental footprint through carefully targeted actions, interventions and choices.
These include:
RGU is committed to achieving net zero by 2045.
100% of our waste is diverted from landfill.
Our employees, students and guests are provided with consumption data for the buildings they use in order for them to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in compliance with the Climate Change (Scotland) Act.
We actively encourage sustainable behaviour in our community, such as the uptake of carbon-reducing travel schemes, including cycling and the provision of electric vehicles.
Our annual sustainability report captures the work going on across the University to highlight how it is actively reducing its emissions to achieve net zero by 2045.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/sustainability/our-nature-positive-campus:
Our 23-hectare campus at Garthdee runs 1.8 kilometres along the River Dee.
Our campus includes a densely wooded area, known as ‘the island’, and a further 22 hectares of floodplain land at Waterside Farm on the opposite side of the river.
Our campus is open to staff, students, and the community, allowing all to benefit from the increased presence of nature on our site.
Paths on campus are regularly used by the local community to walk their dogs, access our green spaces and enjoy the river.
The ongoing restoration of Waterside Farm as a nature reserve and biodiversity site exemplifies sustainable and environmental best practices.
The project provides many opportunities to engage in biodiversity activities with benefits for health and wellbeing.
This reserve will provide green space for students and the local community, with volunteers needed to help with the transformation.
The weekly “Waterside Wednesdays” volunteer sessions are regularly attended by students, staff and the local community.
Sign up to be a Waterside Wednesday volunteer by booking online:
Our campus habitats are used by a variety of wildlife, including badgers, foxes, otters, roe deer, and a variety of bird, butterfly and bat species.
Waterside Farm is a 55-acre site that sits directly opposite our riverside campus.
The restoration project is one of the biggest biodiversity projects known at a university campus in Scotland.
Staff and students are invited to capture the vibrant biodiversity on our campus, from lush green spaces to diverse wildlife.
RGU Scott Sutherland MRES student Joyce Watt is supporting the university’s Vibrant Campus initiative with the launch of her “RGUvenate” natural health walks, in collaboration with RGU SPORT.
Running through autumn to winter, these campus walks aim to encourage environment-friendly activities to promote a healthy lifestyle, Joyce explains.
It has been a busy year in the garden after a very cold and wet start to spring, summer 2024.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/sustainability/social-and-corporate-responsibility:
RGU promotes equality, diversity and inclusion and health and wellbeing across the wider University community.
RGU instils fair working practices and is a living wage accredited employer, creating an ethical working environment.
We are a member of the Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges (APUC) and utilises their resources to manage the procurement of goods and services to minimise negative impact and will promote positive social, environmental, and economic outcomes.
RGU will undertake regulated procurements in compliance with the sustainable procurement duty of the Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014.
Consideration of environmental, social, and economic issues and how benefits can be delivered through the procurement will be made, where appropriate and on a contract-by-contract basis.
The University will utilise available tools and systems such as Prioritisation, Life Cycle Impact Mapping, Sustainability Test, Flexible Framework, APUC’s Supply Chain Code of Conduct, Ecovadis and Electronics Watch where relevant and proportionate to the scope of the procurement.
The University actively supports student-led initiatives through support and funding of Go Green.
This includes the circular economy Kaim Shop, BikePad to encourage active travel and the Go Green gardening project.
During the cost-of-living crisis, RGU also provided funds and support for the Breakfast Club, giving community access to free food and drinks every Tuesday morning, and has gone on to secure external funding and support alongside.
We support our students in thinking beyond their studies through careers support and learning opportunities.
Find out more:
Research plays a key role at RGU and the University recently launched a new research strategy which aims to help it flourish over the coming years.
Building on our extensive experience in the energy sector, RGU will continue to be a key voice in the transition to green energy and a sustainable future.
We will continue to develop our thought leadership to contribute to national and international conversations around sustainability and net zero and drive innovation to bring positive change.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/sustainability/sustainability-news:
A major new report from Robert Gordon University has warned that the UK risks losing tens of thousands of offshore energy jobs by 2030 unless urgent and coordinated action is taken immediately.
Attending the cycling events organized by the RGU Transport Team has transformed my relationship with commuting.
My name is Xiaoli Wang, and I work in the Estates Department at RGU as a Financial Administrator.
Having been part of the RGU community for over a year, I have come to deeply appreciate the university’s commitment to sustainability and wellbeing.
The impact of an innovative digital literacy project led by RGU, which aims to improve young people’s understanding of generative artificial intelligence, is to be showcased at an event held at Glasgow’s Mitchell Library.
Meet Nancy, our newly appointed Sustainability Manager, on what is World Earth Day (22 April)...
Pupils from Mintlaw Academy will head off to Thunder Bay Marine Sanctuary in Alpena, United States after winning the MATE Scotland ROV competition held at Robert Gordon University (RGU).
Professor Mamdud Hossain from RGU’s School of Computing, Engineering and Technology has been reflecting on a recent trip to Berlin where he was highlighting some of the research taking place at the University which is helping moves towards greener forms of energy.
Writing for The Scotsman, Professor Paul de Leeuw delves into the global need for rare earths and minerals amid political uncertainty, the race to net zero, and conflict across the globe...
Robert Gordon University's commitment to public engagement through sharing knowledge and teaching has been endorsed following the award of a prestigious Bronze Engage Watermark by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE).
Robert Gordon University (RGU) is to host an innovative net zero exhibition at Aberdeen Science Centre this month to encourage visitors to learn more about the North East’s energy transition and Scotland’s journey to a carbon neutral future.
A researcher from RGU has been awarded £25,000 to develop an app based on her PhD research which aims to help the people living with Parkinson’s get active and stay active.
The app will provide education, self-management strategies and goals to help people develop a long-term exercise habit.
RGU Hack, the largest student-led hackathon in the north of Scotland, will be held at the University and this year it is open to learners from a variety of different disciplines.
RGU has been marking the 20th anniversary of The Scottish Centre for Evidence-based Multi-professional Practice, a JBI Centre of Excellence.
This milestone marks two decades of significant contributions to evidence-based healthcare.
An independent taskforce has met for the first time to ensure the North Sea’s strategic transition from oil and gas to a renewable future, while safeguarding up to 200,000 jobs.
Writing in Energy Voice, Professor Paul de Leeuw has set out the importance of maintaining the momentum towards a sustainable future as we move in to 2025...
For the tenth year in a row, an engineering graduate from RGU has won the annual Energy Institute (EI) competition.
Writing in Energy Voice, Professor Paul de Leeuw, from RGU's Energy Transition Institute, highlights that efforts to meet emissions targets need happen at the same time as the establishment of a new international energy system...
Harbour Energy has donated £15,000 to launch a new scholarship programme at RGU.
The Harbour Energy Access Scholarship Programme aims to support females with strong academic credentials in taking their first steps towards a career in engineering and to address patterns of under-representation in technical disciplines in the energy sector.
RGU's Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in BEng (Hons) Engineering: Instrumentation, Measurement and Control has been accredited by the Institute of Measurement & Control (InstMC).
RGU is the first university in Scotland to become an academic partner of ISC2, which is the world's leading not-for-profit member association for cyber security professionals.
Dr Antonella Tonna, Senior Lecturer from The School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health, has written a piece on her online presentation about antimicrobial resistance at the European Committee on Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Care.
Air travel connects people around the world, but it also has a big impact on our planet.
Right now, the aviation industry is responsible for about 3% of global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions over a billion tons every year.
As we work to combat climate change, finding cleaner alternatives to traditional jet fuel is crucial.
RGU and Sustainable Solutions IR Ltd, a green tech group company under energy rental firm Intervention Rentals UK Ltd, are working together on a new research project focusing on the development of hydrogen production from waste heat which could have major implications for the energy transition.
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 has rated Robert Gordon University (RGU) among the very best in Scotland for its teaching quality and sustainability as the University continues to build on recent league table successes.
The students’ union of Robert Gordon University (RGU) has won an esteemed national award for its vital work in supporting students through the cost-of-living crisis to provide an outstanding student experience.
Researchers from RGU have secured £100,000 in funding for a project to assess the impact of Augmented Reality (AR) on walking difficulties experienced by people with Parkinson’s.
Robert Gordon University’s (RGU) latest flagship annual entrepreneurial programme has launched to a huge North East audience with the window for applications now declared open.
A research study led by Robert Gordon University has shown that antenatal relaxation classes can significantly enhance the emotional well-being of expectant mothers.
Writing in Energy Voice, Professor Paul de Leeuw, Director of RGU's Energy Transition Institute has made the case that the energy sector can learn from another industry.
The National Subsea Centre (NSC), a centre of excellence for subsea research and technology development, today announced its newly formed partnership with NOC Innovations, a Southampton-based facility making cutting-edge marine research and tailor-made autonomous technology available to organisations around the globe.
In the same week as the Paris Olympics will officially start, the UK government launched Great British Energy, the public energy company focused on advancing and delivering the UK’s clean energy ambitions.
In the second phase of their research, a team of RGU researchers travelled to Homa Bay in Kenya to install a geothermal cooling system which works by drawing in hot air, cooling the air in underground pipe and releasing it into hot rooms.
2024 was the third year RGU received funding for a Campus Cycling Officer to support our journey to Net Zero.
Current Campus Cycling Officer Bianca Anechite answers our questions about the initiatives she has led in the past year and their impact on the community.
After the release of the Energy Transition Institute's latest report, Delivering our Energy Future, co-author and energy expert Professor Paul de Leeuw has written a thought leadership on its findings...
A team of researchers from Robert Gordon University (RGU) are leading an innovative project aimed at reducing heat stress for Kenyans living in informal housing by using a geothermal cooling system which pulls colder air from underground into their homes.
RGU’s commitment to net zero is being reflected in the introduction of new electric grounds equipment.
A leading researcher from RGU travelled more than 6,000 miles to South America to highlight the potential of moving away from traditional energy sources to embrace the use of hydrogen.
Professor Paul de Leeuw from RGU's Energy Transition Institute has written in Energy Voice about the impact of the Energy Profit Levy also known as the windfall tax.
Pupils from Mintlaw Academy have the won the MATE Scotland ROV competition held at RGU after impressing judges by successfully completing a series of underwater missions.
The National Energy Skills Accelerator (NESA) hosted Scotland’s Minister for Energy, Just Transition and Fair Work Gillian Martin in Aberdeen to discuss the success of NESA’s Just Transition Fund (JTF) project for the North East and Moray.
Dr Mohamed Amish, from RGU’s School of Engineering, has published a paper on an important international project which involves converting pharmaceutical waste into an innovative drilling fluid additive.
Dietetics students from RGU have partnered with Seaton Primary School to teach pupils how to cook quick, tasty meals and snacks while learning about the key nutritional benefits of a healthy relationship with food.
Imagine having a giant jet engine right in front of you or being able to look at the intricate workings of a moving wind turbine without having to leave your seat.
RGU has strengthened its existing partnership with the Kazakh-British Technical University (KBTU) having signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to create a joint degree programme.
Researchers at RGU have designed a tubular cell that can withstand high temperatures and considerably cut costs which will aid the move towards greener forms of energy in the production of hydrogen.
A PhD researcher who conducted a study on how machine learning can be used to select artificial lift methods that provide tangible solutions to industry challenges has passed RGU's Doctor of Philosophy viva.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rguplus/community-engagement:
Find out more about volunteering opportunities which could be part of your RGUplus Community Engagement journey.
Community Engagement is at the core of what RGU is about through teaching and learning, public engagement with research, student volunteering opportunities, and long-standing flagship initiatives such as Look Again organised by Gray's School of Art and Streetsport in collaboration with the Denis Law Legacy Trust .
Indeed, the University has been awarded the prestigious Bronze Engage Watermark by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) .
Public Engagement at RGU - Action Plan 2025-2028
Getting involved in your community - whether as a RGU Student; a member of the public; or a pupil at a local school or college - shows initiative and a willingness to contribute, and that stands out to future employers.
It helps you develop transferable skills like communication, problem-solving, and teamwork in a meaningful context.
More than that, it shapes your values, broadens your thinking, and helps you figure out the kind of difference you want to make in the world.
And when you take time to reflect on these experiences, you begin to see just how much you’ve grown - and how that can be a powerful part of your personal and professional story.
RGU recognises that you're already building skills every day, often without realising it, and want to celebrate this with you.
In partnership with the Denis Law Legacy Trust, the Denis Law RGUplus Award (Community Engagement) is your chance to turn the real-world experiences you’re already gaining - whether through part-time work, volunteering, leadership roles, placements, or study abroad - into something that’s recognised and valuable.
It's designed to help you reflect on what you've done, identify the skills you've picked up, and boost your confidence in talking about them when it matters - this Award helps you make the most of those experiences by putting them into context and showing future employers what you're capable of.
For further information about the Denis Law RGUplus (Community Engagement) Award, contact the team: dlrguplus@rgu.ac.uk
RGUplus is a range of opportunities you will have as a student at RGU, which will take you on a journey from citizen to global citizen.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/equality-diversity-policy:
The University believes that the most effective way to promote equality and to eradicate discrimination is to mainstream the consideration of equality across its functions.
In this respect, the University expects all employees, students and visitors to the University to have an individual duty to ensure that equality and diversity is actively promoted.
The policy has been developed by the Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee and Equality and Diversity Forum (which comprises equality champions for each of the equality protected characteristics as well as staff and student representatives); in consultation with locally recognised trade unions.
It covers both staff and students and sets out clear roles and responsibilities for groups and individuals across our university community.
In particular:
Equality Diversity Policy 2025
Equality and Diversity Policy Impact Assessment
The only exception to this Policy is where there are compelling legal imperatives or where there is considered to be a breach of University regulations.
Robert Gordon University strives towards creating a working, learning and social atmosphere which is inclusive and harmonious.
The university will achieve this by:
Robert Gordon University is committed to embedding and mainstreaming equality, diversity, and inclusion across its functions.
The university is committed to the Athena Swan Charter principles.
Athena Swan is a framework supporting and transforming gender equality within higher education (HE) and research.
RGU Athena Swan Certificate of Commitment

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/equality-action-groups-champions:
Our Action Groups meet to discuss issues, contribute to activities, and promote inclusivity for their specific equality strand across the university.
RGU appoints Equality Champions for each of the 9 protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010.
Everyone can get involved!
You do not need to identify with a particular background, and we always welcome allies to support our equality work.
To find out more about applying to be an Equality Champion, Network representative or group member, please contact equality@rgu.ac.uk .
Each group is chaired by our Equality Champions and they meet to discuss issues, contribute to activities, and promote inclusivity for their specific equality strand across the university.
If you are interested in one of the available Equality Champion vacancies, contact equality@rgu.ac.uk .
It is RGU’s policy to actively promote equality across all of its functions.
The Disability Action Group is an area for staff members with physical, sensory or hidden disabilities or neurodiverse conditions to come together to help champion change at RGU.
RGU is committed to creating and promoting a working and learning environment where everyone is treated fairly with dignity and respect.
The Race Equality Action Group aims to create an opportunity and inclusive platform to encourage and support the staff voice through safe and meaningful conversations and relationships that would contribute to championing Race Equality at RGU.
This group includes Gender Reassignment and Sexual Orientation, working in partnership with the Rainbow network.
Equality Action Groups are created with the intention to bring together colleagues from across the university to contribute and challenge, reinforce and recognise the on-going commitment of RGU to equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Following the appointment of staff equality champions, student equality champions, and the reformation of the Equality and Diversity Sub-committee and Forum (EDSC & EDF), it is our vision to foster staff and student engagements to make everyone working, studying, or visiting our campus to feel welcomed, respected, valued and included as well as ensuring that our policies, procedures and processes are fair, transparent and clear.
To find out more about our Equality Action Groups, applying to be an Equality Champion, Network representative or group member, or for any other questions about Equality and Diversity at RGU, please contact equality@rgu.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/edi-events-activities:
Our EDI calendar aims to create and promote an inclusive environment where everyone feels valued and respected at Robert Gordon University.
Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion is embedded in our culture and values as a university.
Our calendar informs the university community on key cultural, religious, international, and health-related dates throughout the year.
The calendar can be printed or just kept digitally on your computer.
EDI Calendar 2024
Should you have any queries regarding the calendar, please contact the EDI Team
Robert Gordon University holds and supports many Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion related events, activities and campaigns throughout the year, such as Black History Month, International Women’s Day, and Pride Month.
If you would like an event or campaign included, please contact the Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion team:
In 2024 we celebrated International Women’s Day to #InspireInclusion.
Every October we celebrate Black History Month.
In 2024, we reclaimed narratives!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/athena-swan:
The University is committed to the Athena Swan Charter Principles to promote gender equality at RGU and beyond.
The Athena Swan Charter recognises good practice in promoting gender equality in higher education.
Established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths, and medicine (STEMM) employment, the charter is now being used across the globe to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
In 2015, the charter was expanded to cover all subjects and to include a focus on professional and support staff, as well as recognition of issues faced by transgender people.
In March 2020, an Independent Review of the UK Athena Swan Charter concluded with wide ranging recommendations to transform the charter to make it more relevant, flexible, and responsive to universities and departments’ needs.
The Transformed Athena Swan Charter was launched on 30 June 2021, following extensive consultations with the sector.
In February 2025, RGU officially achieved bronze status under the Athena Swan Charter following extensive work to enhance equality for all genders and intersecting identities across our community.
This award recognises the efforts made and endorses our action plan to continue to ensure further progress.
Our self-assessment team will now monitor the delivery of the action plan in the hope to obtain a silver status award by 2030.
RGU Athena Swan Bronze Award - Application & Report
Athena Swan offers a valuable framework for introducing policy as well as cultural changes that create a better working environment not just for women but for people of all genders.
Veronica Strachan - University Secretary & Vice Principal Corporate Services
Contact us via equality@rgu.ac.uk if you have any queries or feedback about our submission.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/committees/academic-council-committees/equality-and-diversity-sub-committee:
Academic Council Committees
This is a Sub-Committee of the  Quality Assurance and Enhancement Committee.
The remit includes to inform strategic equality and
diversity priorities and direction, based on robust evidence, data, involvement and consultation with the University’s Equality and Diversity Forum and other appropriate stakeholders.
Convener : Ms Veronica Strachan, University Secretary and Vice Principal Corporate Services Secretary : Emmanuel Akerele, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Adviser
The Remit and Composition of the Academic Regulations Sub-Committee are contained in Organisational Regulation O4, 1.4
O4 Standing Committees of Academic Council
Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee Membership 2024-25

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/equality-reports:
The latest statistics, plans and reports for Equality and Diversity at RGU.
The Equality Act 2010, which was passed to harmonise and replace previous equalities legislation, introduced the Public Sector Equality Duty (PSED) in 2012, which were subsequently amended in 2016.
This introduced specific duties for HEI’s and public bodies to:
There are nine ‘protected characteristics’ under the Equality Act:
Efforts to deliver equality and eradicate discrimination at RGU are mainstreamed across all our functions.
In meeting our duties of the Equality Act 2010, RGU has published these reports:
RGU Equality Mainstreaming Report 2025
The Mainstreaming Report outlines our approach to mainstreaming equality and diversity across the activities of the university since 2021.
This includes information on how our statutory obligations under the Equality Act 2010 are reflected and integrated within the university’s strategy, how senior leadership around equality is provided, what support is provided to staff and students in relation to equality and diversity and the enhancements we have made to our approach to mainstreaming.
RGU Equality Outcomes Progress 2021 - 25
This interim progress report provides an overview of the progress made by the University to achieve its 2021 – 2025 equality outcomes and includes a range of activities that have been undertaken between in the past two years towards this achievement.
RGU Gender Pay Gap Report 2025
This report shows the gender pay gap at the university along with the reasons that it exists and actions to address it.
RGU Equal Pay Statement 2025
This report provides an overview of the University’s commitment to ensuring equal pay, alongside analysis on occupational segregation by protected characteristic.
RGU Employee Data Report - April 2025
This report includes a range of data on the protected characteristics of staff at the university.
This includes information on the composition of our employees and recruitment, development and retention.
The latest statistics about students and staff at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/equality-diversity/bsl-action-plan:
Robert Gordon University is pleased to present our British Sign Language (BSL) plan, as required by the British Sign Language (Scotland) Act 2015.
Our plan sets out our commitment to breaking down barriers for BSL users to access and participate in university life and to improve our services for all BSL users.
Our plan is available in BSL and English to make it as accessible as possible.
RGU BSL Action Plan
If you have any comments or queries about the BSL Action Plan, please contact Julie MacDonald, Inclusion Lead Manager j.macdonald20@rgu.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/study-in-scotland:
Scotland has a world-renowned education system, top-class universities and a reputation for producing creative thinkers.
That's why more than 83,000 students from over 180 different countries choose to study in Scotland every year.
A Scottish education provides great prospects for employment.
Education institutions in Scotland work in partnership with employers to fully prepare students for transition to the workplace.
Employers highly value graduates from Scottish universities, with nine out of ten graduates finding employment or further study within six months of graduation.
Aberdeen has been named one of the 'best places to go' in the UK in 2025 by Condé Nast Traveller Magazine.
Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen is a great choice to start your university adventure in Scotland.
Aberdeen is Scotland’s third largest city and has even been named one of the UK’s most desirable cities (QS Best Student Cities 2025).
Our city is easy to get to, with its own international airport connected to major European hubs, as well as rail and bus services linking it with the rest of Scotland and the UK (did you know it is less than three hours to Edinburgh and Glasgow?
And only a 1hr 40mins flight to London?).
When you choose to study in our beautiful corner of Scotland, you can be guaranteed an unforgettable experience beyond the classroom.
Don’t just take our word for it, find out what our current international students think about living and studying in Aberdeen.
One major thing I enjoy about living in Scotland is the diversity.
I like socialising, making friends, and trying out new things.
Ndubuisi, RGU Student from Nigeria Read more Aberdeen is such a lovely, easy-going city full of Scottish culture.
The transport links are amazing for students.
Taylor, RGU Student from Canada Read more I feel very lucky to live in such a beautiful city, get to the beach after a 30-minute walk, run in a park, and be just a bus stop away from fantastic castles or hiking spots.
Olvia, RGU Student from Mexico Read more
RGU is a truly global university with students choosing to study in Aberdeen from across the world.
We look forward to hopefully welcoming you to our sparkling city soon.
Find out more about life as a student in Aberdeen:
RGU Student Guide to Aberdeen

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/visa-information:
International Students
We welcome students from all over the world to study on our campus.
The Admissions Immigration Team specialises in student immigration to the UK, and we can help you throughout the process.
If you are well prepared you should find the application process straightforward and relatively quick.
We know that you will have many questions in relation to your CAS and visa requirements for RGU, so we have created several short videos to help answer most of your questions.
Further detailed information about each of the topics:
After you have a conditional offer, what do you need to do to be able to move from the Admissions stage of the application to the Immigration stage?
Find out more about financial requirements, who can sponsor your studies, and different requirements if you’ve previously studied in the UK.
Provide the correct financial evidence in line with UKVI visa application requirements.
Check country-specific arrangements for TB testing and financial evidence during the visa application process
Your CAS explained and what happens once your visa has been granted.
It may be possible to bring your family to the UK during your studies; find out what is required.
Information for applicants from EU countries.
Beyond your studies - information on the Graduate Route Visa

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/english-language-requirements:
If you are considering a postgraduate study option starting in September 2025 or January 2026, then please be aware application deadlines are in place which may affect your first choice of start date or course selection.
All applicants whose first language is not from a recognised English speaking country will be asked to provide evidence of their English language skills as part of their offer to study at RGU.
Specific English language requirements are found on our course pages as these may differ for certain course areas.
Please read carefully through the information to find out if you have the required evidence of English language to begin a course with RGU, and if you are unable to find the information or have any further queries then please contact the Student Admissions Service: admissions@rgu.ac.uk .
If English is not your first language, you will need to demonstrate that you have the language skills needed to  succeed in your undergraduate studies regardless of your nationality or country of residence.
To support this we accept a wide range of English exams and tests.
To succeed in your postgraduate studies you will need to demonstrate that you have the language skills needed,  if English is not your first language,  regardless of your nationality or country of residence.
It is essential that you can read and interpret academic journal articles, communicate effectively and write at a doctorate level.
If English is not your first language, regardless of your nationality or country of residence you will need to demonstrate the required language skills
Robert Gordon University have secured discounts with selected test providers for our applicants who may be planning to take a test of English.
If a visa is required in order to study in the UK then applicants need to meet both the UKVI and Robert Gordon Universities academic English requirement.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/your-country-or-territory:
If you are an international student choosing to study abroad, you might want to work with an education agent, it is important you select a trusted agent to guide you.
The choice to use one or not is completely up to you.
Information about our approved agents can be found on each of our country or territory pages.
Our international students enjoy the benefits of our small and supportive classes which allow them to receive a high level of guidance and support from their academic expert lecturers.
Robert Gordon University is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of today's employers.
With 18,000 students from 152 countries every year, Robert Gordon University is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of today's employers.
Canada and Scotland have shared a close relationship for centuries.
Almost 5 million Canadians claim Scottish descent, every year we are delighted to welcome more Canadians to the RGU Family!
Robert Gordon University is a dynamic, industry led university with a strong reputation for graduate employability.
The University also boasts impressive accreditations in their areas of specialism such as the AACSB which is held by only 6% of global business schools.
RGU is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of today's employers.
Robert Gordon University has maintained its legacy as a dynamic, vibrant and modern university, where students gain real world, practical education to prepare them for their future careers.
With over 18,000 students from 152 countries every year, Robert Gordon University is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of today's employers.
RGU has strong connections with Aberdeen’s large community of people from India.
Indian students can enjoy fabulous restaurants and yearly celebrations to mark Diwali, Eid, Guru Nanak Gurpurab and more.
Our international students enjoy the benefits of our small and supportive classes which allow them to receive a high level of guidance and support from their academic expert lectures.
RGU is an approved University by the Kuwaiti Ministry of Education.
Robert Gordon University is very proud of the links it has with a number of institutions in Malaysia and the strong reputation we have built up over the years.
RGU is an CONACYT approved UK Institution for fully funded postgraduate students.
RGU also has an agreement with FUNDACION MEXICANA PARA LA EDUCATION LA TECNOLOGIA y LA CIENCIA, A.C.
(FUNED).
Robert Gordon University attracts every year 18,000 students from 152 countries.
Our students gain a high professional profile thanks to our embedded courses and our strong links to industry.
Robert Gordon University is delighted to welcome every year a growing number of Omani students.
We are proud to be recognised as an approved UK University by The Government of the Sultanate of Oman.
Students from Qatar tell us they enjoy the peaceful, relaxed atmosphere of Aberdeen and find it easy to quickly consider the city a home away from home.
Robert Gordon University works closely with the British Council and scholarship bodies to make sure courses are as attractive and relevant as possible to international students.
Robert Gordon University is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education.
RGU is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for delivering academic excellence for over 40 years especially in the Oil and gas industry.
Our international students enjoy the benefits of our small and supportive classes which allow them to receive a high level of guidance and support.
With 18,000 students from 152 countries, RGU is a dynamic, vibrant and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of today's employers.
With students from 132 countries, RGU is a dynamic and modern university and has gained an impressive international reputation for providing top quality education relevant to the needs of employers.
Robert Gordon University has welcomed students from the USA for a number of years and provides a range of courses with internationally recognised accreditations.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/contact-the-international-team:
We are delighted that you are considering joining us and we are looking forward to welcoming you for the start of your student journey with us.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/meet-us-in-your-country:
Your chance to meet RGU staff to apply for a course or discuss an existing application.
We visit countries around the world at various times of the year.
We also provide opportunities for you to chat to us online.
Our regular web chats make it easy for you to connect with us from your own home.
Future students meet RGU in Kenya 30 August 2025 Join Robert Gordon University in Kenya for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success.
Distance Learning Social Work Course Q&A session 03 September 2025 Join us for an online question and answer session for potential applicants for the BA (Hons) Social Work by Distance Learning course.
Meet RGU in Kathmandu 07 September 2025 Meet RGU’s in-country manager, Iain Duff when he visits Nepal in September.
SBB School Fairs in Tanzania 09 September 2025 Discover Robert Gordon University with our in-country- representative Feona.
Future students meet RGU in Tanzania 12 September 2025 Join Robert Gordon University in Dar es Salaam for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success Future students meet RGU in Kenya - School fairs 15 September 2025 Join Robert Gordon University in Kenya for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success.
Meet RGU in Bangkok 15 September 2025 Meet RGU’s in-country manager, Iain Duff when he visits Thailand in September.
Future students meet RGU in Kampala 19 September 2025 Join Robert Gordon University in Kenya for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success.
Future Students - Meet RGU in Nigeria and Ghana this September 20 September 2025 Meet RGU in person as we visit various cities in Nigeria and Ghana!
30 August 2025
03 September 2025
07 September 2025
09 September 2025
12 September 2025
Join Robert Gordon University in Dar es Salaam for an exclusive opportunity to explore our degrees, career-focused teaching, and pathways to global success
15 September 2025
Meet RGU’s in-country manager, Iain Duff when he visits Thailand in September.
19 September 2025
20 September 2025
If your country is not listed for a visit, get in touch with your local area manager:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/after-you-apply:
Find out about what happens once you have applied to Robert Gordon University and how you can prepare for coming to join us in Aberdeen.
Once you have submitted a complete application to us, we will do our best to get a decision to you within one week.
Please understand that this timeframe alters depending on what course you are applying to and also the time of year you apply.
If you have any queries about your application, we are happy to answer these over the phone or through email.
Most international students will initially get a conditional offer of acceptance.
This means we are happy in principle to accept you to study at Robert Gordon University but you must meet certain conditions first.
The most common conditions are:
Once you have fulfilled the conditions of your Conditional Offer, we will issue your Unconditional Offer and CAS number and statement.
The UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) requires CAS numbers and statements for all student visa applications.
The personal CAS number we issue will link directly to the UKVI database to facilitate your visa application.
Your CAS statement confirms that:
Regarding pre-payments, this means when we have received your payment in our bank account here in Aberdeen, which may be several weeks after you transfer it, if you are making an overseas bank transfer.
The pre-payment policy of the university can be downloaded:
Deposit Policy for International Applicants
At Robert Gordon University, we have a policy for asking students to pay a deposit before an Unconditional Offer is made.
This is in order to:
The pre-payment for students beginning their studies is required - the exact amount you are required to pay will be stated on your offer letter.
This must be paid before a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies) number and statement will be issued and sent to you, which are required for you to begin the visa application process.
It is important to understand that the deposit is normally only refunded if a student fails to secure a visa to enter the UK as a student.
For example if you pay the deposit and successfully arrive in the UK but then decide you want to study at a different institution, you will lose the deposit that you have paid.
For the correct dates for the intake you are applying to, please use our Application Deadline information which includes the deadline for paying your deposit.
To receive your Unconditional Offer in plenty of time so that you can apply for your UK student visa, you should pay the deposit as early as possible.
In some countries (Pakistan and Nigeria, for example) it can take many weeks at busy times (June - September) to obtain a UK student visa.
We therefore recommend that you pay your deposit earlier than the dates provided in order to ensure that you have sufficient time to get your visa.
An ATAS clearance certificate will be a mandatory requirement for some Postgraduate Research, Postgraduate Masters and some Undergraduate students in science, engineering or technology disciplines.
You do not need an ATAS Certificate if you are a UK/EU/EEA national.
You do need an ATAS certificate if:
Should the course you choose to study at Robert Gordon University require an ATAS certificate, we will notify you.
Please note that the ATAS requirement is a separate process from that of your application to RGU and RGU are not involved in the process.
Your application will be sent to and wholly dealt with by the FCO - Foreign Commonwealth Office.
They can take between 6 and 8 weeks to fully process your ATAS application.
We recommend that you book and confirm your accommodation before you leave your home country.
The possibility of deferring entry will depend on the status of your current application and the conditions you have met as part of it, therefore each request is considered individually.
If you think that you would like to defer your studies, you can contact the Student Admissions Service to assist you.
Course content and academic entry requirements can vary from year to year, therefore, students may only be able to defer entry for one academic year.
If you wish to be considered for a future intake, please email Admissions and one of our Admissions Officers would be delighted to help.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/pre-arrival-information:
Congratulations on holding an offer to study at Robert Gordon University (RGU) in Aberdeen!
We look forward to welcoming you to the University.
We hope to help provide you with some useful information to help you prepare for your departure, and your first few weeks as an RGU student here in the UK.
We have put together a PDF that highlights many key areas that international students should consider prior to travelling to Aberdeen, in addition to the guidance on this webpage.
Things to consider before travelling
Things to consider on arrival
Our Student Admissions Service are dedicated to supporting you throughout your visa application process.
We have a specialist team in Immigration that can help you with your Student Visa application.
Read more on the visa application process and important information to help guide you along this journey:
Whilst it is easy to pick up notebooks and pens to help with your studies when you arrive in Aberdeen, you may wish to bring with you a laptop or personal computer.
This will allow you the independence to study wherever and whenever you want, and can be used for watching online lectures, learning online, completing assignments and also note taking during classes.
A laptop or personal computer is recommended to fully access all RGU’s systems and networks, as joining via a phone or tablet can offer a limited functionality.
Suggested minimum specification:
We recommend that you visit the British Council’s Study in the UK website, as this has lots of helpful advice to prepare ahead of your departure from your home country.
Before you start packing, please familiarise yourself with the UK Government’s rules on what you can bring into the country.
There are several food stuffs you are not allowed to enter the country with, as well as there being a limit on the volume of alcohol and cigarettes you can carry with you.
Don’t worry about packing items you think you will not find here.
Aberdeen is a multi-cultural welcoming city with many international supermarkets which cater for a variety of cuisines.
If you are planning to travel to Aberdeen by air, many of the major airline carriers will allow international  students a complimentary extra baggage allowance with proof of study, such as your Unconditional offer letter or student visa.
This must be arranged in advance of travel so please speak to your airline at the point of booking your ticket.
Aberdeen International Airport (ABZ) is a small, single terminal airport, with several international connections from London, Amsterdam and Paris each day.
If Aberdeen is your first point of landing in the UK, you will travel through UK Border Control here.
If you transit via other UK airports, such as Heathrow, Manchester or Glasgow, you will pass through UK Border Control there.
Options for onward travel from Aberdeen airport to your student accommodation include:
There is a regulated taxi rank outside the terminal of the airport, which has taxis 24 hours a day.
It will cost approx.
£30 to travel to Garthdee campus from the airport.
Unregulated taxis are not allowed into the grounds of the airport.
There is a regular bus service, Jet 727, which runs 24 hours a day from outside the airport terminal and takes you to the bus station in the city centre.
A ticket costs around £3.50.
Aberdeen has both a train station and a bus station located in the city centre, both with regular services to other UK cities such as Edinburgh, Glasgow and London.
There is a taxi rank located at the train station, which runs 24 hours a day.
It will cost approximately £18 for a taxi to the Garthdee campus from the city centre.
There is also a very regular local bus service which operates from a short distance away from the train and bus stations, on Union Street.
This bus service connects the city of Aberdeen, with many different routes offered.
If travelling to campus, please take First Bus, Route 1 or Route 2.
We advise all international students to travel with a small amount of cash with them, to cover your expenses for the first few days until your new bank account is set up.
Ideally you want to bring this cash in £GBP, £250-£500 should be enough.
As it will take you a short while to set up your UK bank account, you may wish to consider a pre-paid credit card from your home country which will allow you to make withdrawals with ease in the UK.
Some example companies which offer this are WeSwap and Revolut.
Information about how to set up your UK bank account is included in the Welcome Toolkit you will have access to on Moodle, once you have enrolled online.
Please note, some banks will require a bank support letter and proof of address to set up your bank account, which you can request from the Student Life Hub , or via AskRGU .
Once you are enrolled you can self-serve a bank letter for some banks including TSB and HSBC via the MyRGU App .
For other banks you can request from the Student Life Hub, or via AskRGU.
Please note, Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays do not need an RGU bank letter but will require other documents.
More information about this is included in the ‘Finance and Banking Advice’ section of the Welcome Toolkit on Moodle:
RGU offers a flexible payment plan for your balance of tuition fees
As the cost of living may be quite different from your home country, the key to financial success is researching your costs and budgeting.
When you apply for your visa, the UKVI asks you to show that you have £10,224 to cover your living expenses.
This will cover your core costs such as accommodation, food, and expenses like telephone bills, transport and clothing.
We recommend you set a budget each month to ensure that all your core costs are covered from your financial requirement funds.
You should not expect part time employment to cover your core costs.
For all students, your first priority is to your education so before deciding if you wish to get a part time job, you should consider the time you have available once your study commitments are fulfilled.
The result of your studies will last a lifetime, and therefore is far more valuable than earning a small amount of extra money in the short term.
Your visa may allow you to work a maximum of 20 hours per week, but to achieve a balance of study, part time work, and enjoying your life in Aberdeen most students find 11 to 16 hours more suitable.
Read the Careers Guide:
Careers Pre-Arrival Guide 2025-2026
Our Careers and Employability team offers all students support and guidance on part time work and balancing your studies.
You will begin to receive communication from our Student Admissions Service regarding enrolment processes around early August.
Please check your inbox for this notification.
Our guide for new International students provides essential information about visa and immigration support, as well as lots of useful advice to help you settle into life in Aberdeen and the UK.
Students can access this online through Moodle once you have enrolled.
You can also find out about Freshers (New Student) events and activities through the Welcome area of Moodle, or on the Students' Union's website:
Before each intake, we run a range of pre-arrival events for our new international students.
These are a great opportunity to get your last minute questions answered as well as pick up some helpful tips on preparing to join us.
We also have a series of virtual events held throughout the summer to help you with any questions or plans ahead of arriving in the city.
Don’t forget, you can chat to some of our current students who are an excellent source of advice and guidance.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/international-students/international-fees-costs-funding:
We offer support and information about tuition fees, living costs and funding to help you better understand your expenses while studying here in Aberdeen, Scotland.
We understand that committing to studying overseas is both a big financial commitment as well as of your time.
We're here to guide you on how to plan your finances and what to expect when you get to RGU.
RGU offers all direct entry, self-funding international students a discount on their fees to help with this initial stage.
There are various funding opportunities for international students through scholarships and companies we have partnerships with in the UK and in many international countries.
Tuition fees are set in relation to the type of course you are studying.
For example, due to the materials required, laboratory based courses are often more expensive than class based ones.
Fees for Overseas Students also differ from fees for UK and European Union students.
Fees are listed on all course pages:
We have an instalment plan to help spread the cost of paying your tuition fees.
Detailed information about paying your tuition fees:
You can make payment of your deposit securely through the Applicant Portal:
Find out more about how to make payments:
Should you require a refund of your deposit or tuition fees, complete the form:
International Students Refund Request Form
It is hard to predict your exact cost of living, as this varies from person to person.
However, we have created a rough guide to help with your planning.
The things which are going to vary your cost of living will be:
As with relocating to any new place, once you are here you will learn where to find the best deals for buying food or clothes; what day it is cheapest to go the cinema etc.
Aberdeen is a very student friendly city, so there are lots of special offers geared towards the student market, such as meal deals in restaurants and bars.
Many students find it helpful to have a contingency or emergency budget.
This is in case they find it difficult to find a part time job or incur an unplanned expense such as contents insurance for your belongings or a television license for your property.
According to research by UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) student finance is the number one concern for International Students, with many of the students who took part in their research saying that they underestimated the cost of living.
It is important to be realistic about your expected costs for your time at Robert Gordon University, as we want you to have the best experience possible.
Preparing a sensible budget will allow you to focus on your studies and enjoy your time in Aberdeen.
There is no restriction on bringing money into the UK.
However, you must declare to UK Customs if you bring more than the equivalent of €10,000 (approx.
£8,000).
This includes currency, travellers cheques and bankers drafts.
If you are planning to bring some of your own currency, check first that you are permitted to take it out of your country, and secondly that it can be changed in the UK.
There are many disadvantages with bringing large amounts of cash in to the UK.
The most obvious problem is safety - if your cash is stolen, it is gone for good.
However you will need to bring some cash (£200 - £300) with you in order to meet day to day expenses, at least for the short term.
The best and safest way to bring money is to either bring Sterling travellers cheques or arrange two bank drafts:
Bringing bank drafts is one of the safest ways of bringing money to the UK.
The down-side is that you will need to set up a bank account before you can receive the money.
In addition to this, drafts can take up to two weeks to clear in your account (depending upon the bank).
You should therefore bring some of your living costs as a mixture of cash and travellers cheques until your main draft clears.
As an International Student it may be possible for you to work in the UK whilst you are studying, but your nationality will determine what conditions you need to meet so that you can work in the UK.
The visa stamp on your passport will indicate if you are allowed to work or not.
As an adult student with a suitable visa:
Due to Aberdeen being a good sized, thriving, social city, there are lots of opportunities for part time employment in restaurants, cafes, bars, shops, cinema and theatres.
Some students also chose to take a part time position which relates to their career ambitions, so will take office or agency work such as web design or PR/marketing positions.
In the UK, there is a minimum wage system which attempts to regulate payment for all employees.
Find out the current National Minimum Wage from the DirectGov website .
At Robert Gordon University, we have an excellent Careers Centre that can help our students locate and prepare for applying to a range of local part time jobs whilst you are studying.
Our Careers Centre can also help with career planning and how to prepare for the graduate employment market.
You can find full information about working while studying from our Student Services department.
You can apply to the University for an Emergency Loan if you suddenly find yourself in financial difficulty.
This fund is available to international students who have had a change in circumstances since starting their course which have resulted in them having financial difficulties.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/application-deadlines:
Important dates to remember when applying to start at RGU in 2025 and information about courses that are now closed for new applications.
Although it is RGU’s intention to remain open during main cycle and to continue to accept and process applications until this deadline, we may yet need to close to new applications sooner than advertised if volumes continue to increase at their current rate.
As such and to avoid disappointment we encourage and advise you to apply well before this deadline.
We may not be able to consider processing new applications made or where conditions are met after the deadline date.
You should prepare to meet all conditions well in advance of the advertised final date, especially the deposit payment as this must be within the University Account prior to the final deadline date.
Further information about deadlines and other important dates will display on this page when confirmed.
*Does not include undergraduate students applying through ICRGU.
UK based undergraduate students can find application deadline information on the UCAS website .
**We aim to respond with a decision on all applications made prior to the closing of the advertised deadline date.
An application made after this date is considered a late application and may not be considered dependant on volumes received and capacity/space within programmes.
Please note this deadline is set based on the time allowance needed to apply for visa and the time needed by the UKVI to process your application to them.
A condition deadline indicates that the document, evidence or financial requirement such as deposit must be met on or before that date.
This means if you are transferring funds they must be received into the University on or before the deadline date.
The CAS issuance period is calculated to allow for the processing time required by the UKVI, on average, for a standard student visa.
An application made after this date is considered a late application and may not be considered dependant on volumes received and capacity/space within programmes.
The early deposit payment discount is available for any full time self funding student who is required to make a deposit payment against their full fee by the date below.
In paying the deposit early RGU offers a further discount against the total course fee.
The discount is not transferrable if you defer your place to a future intake.
For full information please refer to the RGU Early Deposit Payment Discount webpage .
Courses with start dates in February, May, October or times of the year other than the standard intakes in September and January, may also have non-standard deadlines as specified on their course page.
If a course page does not detail a different specified deadline, then the general deadlines for January and September entry apply.
Please use the Get in Touch link on the course page to contact us if you have any questions about that course's application deadline.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8355-rgu-research-highlights-the-importance-of-staying-positive-ahead-of-giving-birth:
Teams of researchers from RGU and the University of South Australia (UniSA) investigated the factors that help ease childbirth fears, rather than fuel them.
They surveyed 88 pregnant women in their third trimester before attending antenatal classes in the North East of Scotland.
Researchers used the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale to measure the link between mental wellbeing, a woman’s belief in her ability to manage the challenges of labour, and fear of childbirth.
While 12% exhibited ‘severe’ fear of childbirth (FOC), those who were more positive, confident and in meaningful relationships reported fewer concerns.
The findings are published in the Journal of Psychosomatic Obstetrics & Gynaecology.
Dr Katrina Forbes-McKay from RGU’s School of Law and Social Sciences, said the results provide valuable insights into how antenatal care could be improved to foster confidence, enhance positive emotions and ultimately support healthier births for mothers and babies.
She said: “While many studies have explored the negative effects of childbirth fear, including prolonged labour, emergency caesareans and postpartum mental health issues, there has been little research into what protects women from experiencing those fears.
“Our findings highlight the need for antenatal care that doesn’t just teach women what to do during labour but also empowers them to believe they can do it.”
Professor Tracy Humphrey, from UniSA, said the study found that a woman’s sense of mental wellbeing was the strongest predictor of how fearful she felt about giving birth.
She added: “This includes having a sense of purpose, emotional positivity, and meaningful social relationships – all things that are often overlooked in maternity care.
The second key predictor was childbirth self-efficacy – particularly whether women believed they could apply coping strategies when the time came.”
The study calls for antenatal programs to shift from a solely medical model to one that builds self-belief.
Specifically, it recommends that childbirth education:
Although this study was restricted to women in the third trimester, further research has been undertaken on the role of antenatal relaxation practices in improving maternal well-being and childbirth experiences.
Robert Gordon University midwifery lecturer Dr Mo Tabib led the study as part of her PhD, under the supervision of Dr Forbes-McKay and Professor Humphrey.
“Women who incorporated these relaxation techniques reported “significant improvements” in their mental wellbeing and confidence in approaching childbirth; improvements which remained stable until 4-8 weeks after birth,” Dr Tabib said.
“The findings align with global priorities from the World Health Organisation to promote the mental and physical health of women during pregnancy.
“By addressing fear of childbirth through psychological and educational interventions, we not only support women to have more positive birth experiences but potentially reduce medical interventions and improve outcomes for mothers and infants,” she said.
The researchers are now calling for larger, multi-site studies to validate these findings across diverse populations.
Read the study in full:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8344-legacy-of-scott-sutherland-highlighted-with-plaque-in-aberdeen:
Robert Gordon University (RGU) has been collaborating with The Scott Sutherland Commando Memorial Heritage Trail Project, which celebrates both his impact and legacy.
Scott Sutherland is renowned for the Commando Memorial at Spean Bridge in the Highlands, which was officially launched by HM Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother in 1952.
The Commando Memorial is dedicated to the commandos who trained in the area surrounding it, and the bronze statue is also a place of remembrance for Royal Marines.
His training began at Gray’s School of Art in 1928, and in 1929, he went on to study sculpture at Edinburgh College of Art.
Professor Dan Allen, Dean of Gray's School of Art, said: “It is an honour for Gray’s School of Art to join the Scott Sutherland trail and to celebrate his links with the original building.
“Scott Sutherland has made a huge impact, and this is evident in his work, which is available to view in public spaces across Scotland.
There is no doubt that the iconic Commando Memorial at Spean Bridge is his most famous sculpture, and it continues to inspire people 73 years after its unveiling.
“The plaque is a fantastic reminder that Scott Sutherland made his early inroads into sculpture in Aberdeen.”
Dave Matthews, The Scott Sutherland Commando Memorial Heritage Trail Project committee member, said: “Aberdeen is the place where the story of the Commando Memorial began.
Scott Sutherland’s enduring legacy should not be forgotten, and on behalf of all our supporters, I offer my gratitude to Robert Gordon University for believing in the project's aims.
United we Conquer.”
The unveiling ceremony was held on Thursday 7 August, during which the Lord Provost of Aberdeen, Dr David Cameron, formally unveiled the commemorative plaque.
Prior to the unveiling, attendees were welcomed with brief remarks delivered by representatives from the University community and the Scott Sutherland Commando Memorial Heritage Trail Project.
The plaque on Schoolhill is the ninth panel and is one of 11 sites across the UK chosen to be part of the trail due to their significant link to Scott Sutherland and the Commando Memorial.
Recognising that his name and accomplishments were at risk of being forgotten, members of the Commando brotherhood and the Royal Marines Association (RMA) came together in August 2021.
At a meeting in Dunkeld House Hotel, Perthshire, they unanimously agreed to take action to revive public awareness of Sutherland’s contributions.
This initiative led to the formation of a dedicated committee to spearhead efforts in commemorating Sutherland’s life and work.
The Scott Sutherland Commando Memorial Heritage Trail Project has been instrumental in bringing this initiative to fruition, driven by the collective efforts of individuals dedicated to preserving Sutherland’s legacy.
Their work ensures that the story of Scott Sutherland and the iconic Commando Memorial will continue to be celebrated and remembered.
Spend a whole weekend in our studios working and learning a new craft in depth or furthering your current art & design skills.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/graduation-stories:
Stories from our Winter 2024 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2024 graduates.
Stories from our Winter 2023 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2023 graduates.
Stories from our Winter 2022 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2022 graduates.
Stories from our Winter 2021 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2021 graduates.
Stories from our Winter 2020 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2020 graduates.
Stories from our Winter 2019 graduates.
Stories from our Summer 2019 graduates.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8331-rgu-launches-new-course-for-pharmacy-technicians:
Tuesday 15 July 2025
Led by the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health the course is designed to bridge the knowledge gap identified by UK practising pharmacy technicians, to enhance their scope of practice and contribution to patient-centred pharmaceutical care and clinical pharmacy.
Pharmacy technicians play a crucial role in the UK healthcare system, working under the supervision of pharmacists to ensure the safe running of pharmacy operations and to help patients get the most from their medicines.
With the expanded role of pharmacists, now including independent prescribing, there is a growing need for pharmacy technicians to undertake more clinical responsibilities.
This new top-up degree, which launches in September this year, will equip pharmacy technicians with the necessary clinical training and knowledge to confidently and competently take on these expanded clinical roles.
This pharmacy related degree qualification will also align pharmacy technicians with the rest of the healthcare family who typically enter to practice with a degree qualification.
Professor Susannah Walsh, Dean of the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health, said: "At RGU, we are committed to providing innovative and relevant educational opportunities that meet the needs of the evolving healthcare sector and expanding scope.
This BSc (Hons) Clinical Practice for Pharmacy Technicians is a testament to our ongoing dedication to advancing healthcare education and supporting the professional growth of our students.”
Dr Graeme Kay, Associate Dean for Economic, Social and Cultural Development​ (ESCD) with the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health, said: “RGU will be the first higher education institution in the UK to offer a pharmacy related degree qualification to pharmacy technicians, a significant milestone in the education of pharmacy technicians."
Dr.
Betty Dube, the Course Development Lead, added: “We are excited to launch this new course, the first degree of its kind in the UK, that will address the ever-evolving needs of the pharmacy profession.
Our goal is to empower pharmacy technicians with the clinical knowledge and skills they need to excel in their careers and contribute to the delivery of high-quality pharmaceutical care.”
Key features of the Course include:
Prospective students are encouraged to register their interest and apply early to secure their place by visiting the course web page and application portal:
For more details, contact the course team:
The Pharmacy Simulation Centre can be found in the Sir Ian Wood Building and is designed to resemble a real-life Pharmacy.
The Food Handling Laboratory can be used for any preparation or analyses you will have to undertake on our courses such as Food, Nutrition and Human Health or Dietetics.
Our purpose-built Cell Culture Laboratory has been specifically designed to facilitate the development of your hands-on skills in cell culture required for life science disciplines and research.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8297-rgu-and-mcalpha-inc-pioneer-breakthrough-clean-ammonia-technology:
Tuesday 08 July 2025
This innovative development promises a cleaner, more efficient, and environmentally sustainable solution to a global challenge, positioning the partners at the forefront of industrial decarbonisation.
Ammonia production currently accounts for nearly 2% of global CO₂ emissions, producing approximately 450 million tons of CO₂ annually—more than the aviation industry.
Traditional methods are energy-intensive and environmentally damaging.
The CMR technology, developed in collaboration between RGU’s School of Computing, Engineering and Technology and McAlpha Inc., provides a decentralised, low-emission alternative powered by renewable energy sources.
Supported by the Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC), the project combines electrocatalysis with advanced membrane technology, allowing for modular and scalable green ammonia synthesis using hydrogen from water and nitrogen from air.
This innovation offers wide-ranging applications across agriculture, energy storage, and global decarbonisation strategies, while enabling rural communities to produce fertilizer locally and sustainably.
Professor Radhakrishna Prabhu of RGU’s School of Computing, Engineering and Technology said: “We’re changing the way fertiliser is made, making it cleaner, cheaper, and better for the planet.
This innovation empowers communities to support food security while combating climate change.”
Ayo Giwa, President of McAlpha Inc, said: “The dedication of RGU’s research team has been instrumental in moving this technology closer to commercialisation.
Our collaboration has inspired the creation of McAlpha UK, as we see the UK as a leader in clean energy and net zero development.”
Paul Robb, project manager at NZTC, said: “The Net Zero Technology Centre is proud to be part of this groundbreaking collaboration between Robert Gordon University and McAlpha UK.
"The development of the CMR represents a significant step forward in our mission to achieve net zero emissions.
This innovative technology not only addresses the urgent need for cleaner ammonia production but also exemplifies the power of partnership between industry and academia to drive sustainable solutions.”
The project was funded through NZTC’s Net Zero R&D Programme, financed by The Scottish Government, The Scottish Funding Council, and Scottish Enterprise.
This milestone marks a pivotal moment in the transition to a low-carbon economy, setting McAlpha Inc.
and RGU as leaders in the development of innovative solutions for industrial decarbonisation.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8291-glaze-of-glory-as-ceramicist-receives-honorary-accolade-from-rgu:
A born and bred Londoner, Keith made his first piece of pottery when he was just 11 years old, describing it as a ‘sense of escapism’.
It was at this point that he knew he wanted to pursue it as a career.
After a brief stint as the lead singer of a punk band, Keith became an apprentice at Harefield Pottery in London and has been combining traditional ceramic techniques with modern designs ever since.
His belief that ‘less is more’ is evident in his distinctive style, which has caught the attention of esteemed retailers, creating handmade designs for the likes of Conran, Barneys New York, Habitat, Monsoon, Laura Ashley and Heal’s.
Keith has lived with dyslexia since childhood, though it wasn't formally diagnosed until he reached adulthood.
This experience led him to develop a natural affinity for working with clay, shape and form.
Keith’s ‘Word Range’ was born from a fascination with the physical shapes of words, a unique perspective shaped by his dyslexia.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, said: “Keith has not only revitalised the art of ceramics, an art form many considered to be in decline in the UK, but has also exemplified the transformative power of empathy, encouragement and constructive feedback within his role as a judge.
Through his visible passion and deeply human approach, he has inspired a new generation to discover the joy and creativity of working with clay.
“Keith embodies the core values of Robert Gordon University.
He stands as a passionate ambassador for ceramics, a degree subject offered at only a handful of institutions across the UK, including RGU.
Moreover, his approach to mentoring and feedback is one from which every educator can learn, as it empowers individuals to realise their full potential in a supportive and authentic environment.”
Notably, RGU graduate, AJ Simpson, won The Great Pottery Throw Down in 2022, receiving high praise from Keith throughout their journey.
This isn’t the university’s only connection to the show; the winner of the first series, Matthew Wilcock, has been a lecturer at Gray’s School of Art since 2017.
More recently, Keith published his autobiography titled ‘Boy in a China Shop: Life, Clay and Everything Else’, offering a heartfelt account of his life and remarkable journey to success.
As Head of Design at MAKE International, he continues to handcraft pieces for his own collection and collaborates with both British and international designers.
He also stars alongside his partner, Marj Hogarth, in the Channel 4 series Our Welsh Chapel Dream.
He was recognised with a Doctor of Arts (DArt) award at P&J Live, Aberdeen, on Friday 04 July 2025.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8290-aberdeen-charity-founder-recognised-by-rgu:
Touch of Love has reached over 450 young people through sports, cultural activities, and creative programmes that offer far more than just something to do; they build identity, pride, and meaningful relationships.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, said: “Jane is a successful entrepreneur who has taken it upon herself to improve the lives of young people and their families in Aberdeen.
“Her hard work makes a positive difference, and I’m sure her time at RGU has helped her become an inspirational leader both with Touch of Love and her own business.
Jane’s time at RGU will continue to have a bearing on life as she continues to provide a guiding hand to communities around Aberdeen by providing the kind of support they require.”
Jane’s dedication to Touch of Love was recently recognised on a national stage when she was named the winner of the Inspirational Leader Award at the 2025 National Youth Work Awards.
Adding to this remarkable success, Touch of Love was honoured as Charity of the Year at the 2025 SCVO Scottish Charity Awards, where it also received the coveted People’s Choice Award, a testament to the widespread impact and support of its work.
Her leadership doesn’t stop with younger generations.
Her food bank initiative has distributed over 40,000 parcels to more than 35,000 people, helping families facing real hardship.
Alongside this, she’s run educational seminars for over 350 parents on issues such as autism awareness, domestic violence, and financial literacy.
Across Aberdeen, Touch of Love have supported over 4,000 minority ethnic households – around 15,000 individuals - through integration, trauma recovery, and mental wellbeing.
In her employability work, Jane has helped over 60 individuals develop job skills and enter the workforce, providing practical routes forward for people often excluded from opportunities.
Jane is also a vocal advocate for cultural sensitivity within child protection and public services.
Her work has shaped more inclusive practices and given a platform to young New Scots to tell their stories and pursue their ambitions.
She is also Managing Director of Streetfood Packaging Limited, which offers biodegradable containers for food.
Jane was recognised with a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) award at P&J Live, Aberdeen, on Thursday 03 July.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/news/news-2025/8288-algerian-higher-education-and-business-leader-recognised-for-achievements:
Thursday 03 July 2025
Dr Kies grew up in Algeria during a time of French rule.
Following independence and the nationalisation of French oil companies in 1971, all French teachers were removed from schools and universities.
Tasked by the Ministry of Higher Education as part of a team of six to address this urgent need, Dr Kies travelled internationally to recruit hundreds of academic staff.
Thanks to their efforts, the universities opened as planned in 1972.
In recognition of his achievements, he and his wife received PhD scholarships to study in the USA.
After completing their studies, they returned to Algeria in 1982 to teach.
In 2000, Dr Kies founded a laboratory instrumentation company, EE Force.
In 2004, he and a French colleague identified RGU as their partner to provide training services to Sonatrach, the Algerian national oil company (which is also the largest indigenous company in Africa).
This partnership enabled the establishment of education and training programmes in Algeria, generating hundreds of RGU graduates and revenue of over £12 million.
RGU's relationship with Sonatrach and its training arm, IAP, remains strong today, and only last year, RGU was selected to join a new prequalification framework to offer new programmes in Algeria – the only university on the framework.
Professor Steve Olivier, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, said: "As a university, we have enjoyed a special relationship with IAP and wider Sonatrach for over 20 years, having produced over 400 Masters and 50 MBA graduates in energy disciplines, which was only possible with Bouziane’s support.
"Dr Kies also provided support for RGU staff delivering in Algeria, particularly during times of heightened security concerns, and provided strategic political and cultural advice.
It is noteworthy that RGU remains the only UK university to maintain a direct partnership with Sonatrach.
“Even in the face of challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic and economic changes, which have made it difficult for RGU to operate in the country in recent years, Bouziane has remained a staunch supporter of the university, continuing his support on a voluntary basis.”
Dr Kies received his award for his efforts in promoting education in Algeria and creating opportunities for young people through international collaboration.
He is also recognised for his long-standing promotion and support of RGU.
He received a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) award at P&J Live, Aberdeen, on Wednesday, 02 July, 2025.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8339-storiedplace-picnic:
Friday 29 August 2025 11:00 - 15:00
Location: Room H230, Ishbel Gordon Building, Robert Gordon University Campus
We invite individuals and members of organisations and community groups, interested in using local place-based stories for community engagement, heritage, education, tourism, marketing and creative practice to attend this in-person StoriedPlace Picnic.
During the event Dr Rachael Ironside and Dr Alöna Roitershtein will introduce StoriedPlace - a toolkit for place-based storytelling projects.
The toolkit is designed for individuals, groups and organisations, interested in collecting, curating and creating stories from their place.
The attendees will learn about the toolkit and its application and usefulness for storytelling projects.
They will have an opportunity to explore the StoriedPlace picnic hamper and its contents, while having an actual picnic (weather permitting)!
Learn more:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8363-future-students-meet-rgu-in-kenya:
Saturday 30 August 2025 10:00 - Saturday 27 September 2025 17:00
Location: Various locations in Kenya
Feona Julius, RGU’s In-Country Manager for East and Southern Africa will be attending a series of agent fairs which will take place across Kenya.
If you would like to meet Feona to find out more about studying at Robert Gordon University, please join her at any of these events:
If you have any questions, contact:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8320-grays-school-of-art-masters-degree-show-2025:
Monday 01 September 2025 - Wednesday 10 September 2025
Location: Gray's School of Art
Gray's School of Art is delighted to present our Master’s Graduate Exhibition for 2025.
The work on display in this exhibition showcases the professional practice and work developed by our talented Art + Design students over the period of their Master's studies – work which supports and embodies their personal research and creative development as full-time and part-time learners here at RGU.
This work is intrinsically individual in nature and embraces a varied range of multi-disciplinary approaches including sculptural installation, photography, painting, performance, ceramics, graphic design, fashion illustration and fashion design.
Some explore common themes addressing personal, cultural or political histories, whilst other work has sought to incite conversations that evoke more ethical or ecological practices that ask us all to tread a little more lightly.
The Master's curriculum from which these students are graduating is both rigorous and flexible.
We offer our students significant latitude for personal exploration and development, while fostering and supporting in these students much greater individual critical perspectives, leading to a deeper understanding of the histories, issues, cultures, and disciplinary contexts that inform these creative practices today.
This year, we are proud to present the work from our Master's students:
If you have any questions about this event, contact Bart Grabski, Digital Media Engagement Co-Ordinator:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/5727-aberdeen-cultural-summit:
Wednesday 03 September 2025 10:00 - 16:00
Location: Amphitheatre, Sir Ian Wood Building
Aberdeen Cultural Summit is a research-and-outcome driven partnership between RGU, NESCol, the University of Aberdeen and local stakeholders.
Launched in 2023, the Summit takes place once a year and focuses on different aspects of the cultural sector in Aberdeen and the region, with delegates attending from cultural institutions, local authorities and higher and further education.
The focus of this year's summit will be on 'A shared vision for Screen North East’, encouraging conversations about both the role of the screen sector in the North East and what we can learn from other cities with similar geographies, challenges and opportunities which have successfully turned the screen sector (and interrelated creative sectors) into a catalyst for cultural regeneration and economic recovery.
The Summit will include keynote speakers, workshops and screenings.
Themes to be explored include:
Keynotes will be from Eloise Grey of Screen Aberdeenshire and Tiernan Kelly of Film City Glasgow with additional input from David Smith of Screen Scotland.
Cost to attend: Free

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/contact-the-events-team:
Our specialist conferencing and events staff will support you all the way from your initial enquiry through to the delivery of your event on the day.
For further details, contact our team:
Events Find all the latest information about events happening across the University.
Graduation Our graduation ceremonies celebrate the end of your years of hard work on your course.
Facilities for Business Test-run your future projects; assess your inventions, explore your data and use our assets.
(The Times Higher Education UK Student Experience Survey 2016) Visit Us Throughout the year there are a variety of opportunities for prospective students to visit RGU, meet staff and view the facilities first hand.
Garthdee Campus The Garthdee Campus sits in a wonderfully spacious parkland, adjacent to the River Dee.
Find all the latest information about events happening across the University.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/7371-meet-us-in-india:
Tuesday 22 April 2025 10:30 - Friday 31 October 2025 17:00
Location: Various locations across India
Megha Malhorta, RGU's In-country Consultant for India, will be available in-person at a series of our trusted representative's education fairs to meet prospective students.
Join us and find out more about learning at RGU!
Note, registration will open for several of these events shortly.
Keep an eye on this webpage for updates.
For more information about this event

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/6142-distance-learning-social-work-course-q-a-session:
Wednesday 03 September 2025 16:00 - 17:00
Location: Online (Teams)
This information event for applicants is designed to provide you with more detailed information about the course overall as well as the application process.
This will include information about application criteria related to employment experience as well as required qualifications.
The Admissions Tutor and another member of the course team will be available to answer any specific questions you might have and can share their insights into the type of learning experience that you might expect whilst studying for your degree at RGU.
Get in touch for more information about this event:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8375-meet-rgu-in-kathmandu:
Sunday 07 September 2025 17:00 - Tuesday 09 September 2025 13:00
Location: Various locations in Kathmandu, Nepal
Iain Duff from RGU’s International Student Recruitment Team will be attending school fairs and meeting with agents in Nepal.
Email Iain if you would like to meet him to ask any questions about studying at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/events/events-2025/8364-sbb-school-fairs-in-tanzania:
Tuesday 09 September 2025 09:00 - Friday 12 September 2025 17:00
Location: Various locations in Tanzania

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/engage-at-grays:
Engage was introduced in November 2022 and is currently being designed in response to public feedback.
The creative development programme involves:
We are thrilled to be working collaboratively with independent creative practitioners and local arts organisations to deliver Art Weekenders.
These consist of weekend workshops which aim to bring together creatives to experience a range of different disciplines and delivery methods across the Art School.
Each evening workshop is delivered by a local creative practitioner; together we design workshops to support both beginners' interests in art and design, alongside continued professional development for those seeking to enhance their skillsets and expertise.
This five – day interactive programme invites senior pupils from schools across North East Scotland to engage.
Thank you to everyone who has been part of our programme so far.
If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please complete our online form:
If you have any questions about the programme, please contact the Engage team:
As we continue to develop our new rolling programme, we are excited to introduce what’s coming up.
Find out which workshops you can currently join.
Our Portfolio Guidance courses will help to prepare you for applying for an undergraduate course at Gray's School of Art.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/engage-at-grays/7180-a-week-in-the-life-of-art-school:
A Week in the Life of Art School offers funded places and takes place at Gray’s School of Art, running across 5 days in the summer.
In 2025, it took place from Monday 4 August - Friday 8 August 2025.
'A Week in the Life of Art School' is created in collaboration with Gray’s School of Art , ACCESS RGU , Engage , Mobile Art School and Look Again Aberdeen and is fully funded by Gray’s School of Art , Robert Gordon University and Access to Creative Education Scotland .
Running from Monday 4 August to Friday 8 August 2025, the programme features a variety of creative workshops spanning both 2D and 3D disciplines.
Participants can choose between half-day (2 hours) or full-day (4 hours) sessions and have the flexibility to join a single workshop or engage in multiple workshops throughout the week.
You're also invited to an artist talk and group critique, where two artists will share insights into their creative practices, reflect on their journeys through art school, and discuss the role of group critiques as a key part of the art school experience.
On Friday 8 August, participants will work together as an installation team to curate and install art works created during the week.
The week will culminate in an exhibition titled ‘Mini Revel’, and participants are encouraged to invite friends and family to join in celebrating their work.
Applicants must be at least 16 years old at point of joining on 4 August 2025.
Spaces are limited and subject to availability.
Applicants who meet wider access criteria will be prioritised.
A Week in the Life of Art School - Programme 2025
Offered once or twice daily.
Participants may join a single workshop or multiple workshops throughout the week.
A lunch break is scheduled at 12:00 – 13:00 for those attending both morning and afternoon workshops.
Longer, in-depth workshops that run across both morning and afternoon sessions with the same group.
A lunch break is included from 12:00 – 13:00.
Monday 4 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
Explore polychromatic printing; a screen-printing technique used in the textile industry to create hand-drawn effects with dyes.
Freestyle paint directly onto screens, then transfer your design to fabric using print paste.
Experiment with brushes, sponges, and spray bottles to create different marks and textures.
Once curing is complete, you’ll get to take home your hand-painted A3 fabric at the end of the week.
Monday 4 August, 10:00 - 15:15
In this workshop, you'll explore thinking through making by responding to a client brief focused on homeware design.
Through hands-on studio practice, you'll engage with product design and ceramics using slab building, slip casting, and mould making techniques.
The work produced can contribute to your portfolio for applying to an undergraduate degree at Gray's School of Art.
Monday 4 August, 10:00 - 15:15
In this workshop, explore script writing, visual storytelling, and on-camera presentation.
Get hands-on with teleprompters, video software and green screens while building communication skills.
Check out our TV studio, respond to a news brief, and together, learn about editing and production techniques.
Ideal for aspiring media and journalism creators, or any creative - learn to tell compelling stories and promote yourself and your work across platforms.
It's a 20-minute walk from Gray's to the Riverside Building, where our TV studio is located, so registration begins slightly earlier at 09:40.
The day concludes with a return to Gray's by 15:30.
Tuesday 5 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
Create your own ‘zine’ (pronounced ‘zeeen’) in this hands-on workshop inspired by the rule-breaking style of graphic designer David Carson.
Dive into zine culture and DIY design, combining found images, text, and personal stories into experimental layouts.
Learn simple, cost-effective folding and binding techniques to craft a self-published booklet.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own imagery and text to aid their own storytelling.
Tuesday 5 August, 10:00 - 12:00
If you're considering applying to Gray's School of Art, join this workshop to learn how to photograph your work as part of your portfolio preparation.
Bring a selection of your own artwork or portfolio, and together as a group, we'll explore various techniques to capture and showcase some of your work in a digital format.
You're encouraged to bring your own mobile phone or camera to capture your pieces.
Tuesday 5 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
In this workshop, you’ll learn how to stretch your own canvas from start to finish, building practical skills in both woodworking and canvas preparation.
Working together, you’ll cut wood to create stretcher bars, assemble the frame, and measure, stretch, and staple the canvas.
Each participant will make a canvas approximately 300mm x 450mm to use in upcoming drawing or painting workshops.
Tuesday 5 August, 10:00 - 15:15
Explore playful design in this hands-on workshop and dive into the creative practice of jewellery designer Aubin Stewart.
Begin in the Design Haus with bold paper cut-outs to experiment with shape, colour, and composition.
Develop prototypes, then translate them into accessories in our Jewellery Workshop using Perspex and aluminium.
Learn to cut, drill, and hammer as you create vibrant pieces from reimagined offcuts.
Exploring Design Approaches: From Sketch to VR Wednesday 6 August, 10:00 - 15:15 Design your own chair in this dynamic workshop, inspired by Ben Durack’s work in the Tall Ships Makers Programme.
Explore diverse design approaches through brainstorming, sketching, and prototyping with materials like paper and cardboard.
Experiment with virtual reality to bring your ideas to life, transforming early concepts into immersive design experiences.
Wednesday 6 August, 10:00 - 15:15
Design your own chair in this dynamic workshop, inspired by Ben Durack’s work in the Tall Ships Makers Programme.
Wednesday 6 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
Explore traditional letterpress printing in this hands-on workshop, learning to set type by hand using wooden letter blocks and vintage equipment.
Create bold, graphic A4, posters inspired by the Bauhaus movement, closely connected to our art school.
In celebration of Gray’s 140th anniversary, draw inspiration from the theme ‘Gray’s 140,’ experimenting with type, layout, and colour to create your own prints.
Wednesday 6 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
In this workshop, you’ll learn to sculpt and carve polystyrene, transforming your sketches into 3D sculptures.
Gain hands-on experience with tools like handsaws, electric carving knives, and learn to operate a bandsaw; equipment used for cutting various materials.
At the end of the week, your sculptures will be featured in our ‘Mini Revel’ exhibition at Gray’s.
Please note, some of workshop will take place outdoors.
Wednesday 7 August, 13:15 - 15:15
Meet artists Carla Angus, a graduate-in-residence, and Issy Angus, a graduating student from Gray’s School of Art.
They will share insights into their artistic practices and reflect on their educational journeys through art school.
The conversation will also explore the concept of ‘group crits’ - a core element of the art school experience.
Wednesday 7 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
Join this playful life drawing workshop featuring a live (clothed) model.
Throughout the session, you’ll observe the human figure in a variety of poses and be encouraged to respond creatively; sketching with different mediums and experimenting with line, form, colour, and tone to express movement.
Acrylic paint will also be part of the artistic exploration.
If you're taking part in the Stretch Your Own Canvas workshop, you're encouraged to bring your own canvas to draw or paint on.
Thursday 7 August, 10:00 - 15:15
In this workshop, you’ll construct your own pinhole camera using recycled materials and learn how to capture and develop photographs in a darkroom.
Explore composition, lighting, and timing, while gaining knowledge of basic camera operations, experimenting with long exposure techniques, and understanding both analogue and digital photography processes.
Thursday 7 August, 10:00 - 12:00 or 13:15 - 15:15
You’ll work collaboratively to design and build a large-scale sculpture as part of a group project.
Starting with your own sketches, you’ll explore how to translate two-dimensional ideas into three-dimensional form using a cardboard construction kit called Makedo .
The final sculpture will be showcased at Mini Revel, a group exhibition taking place at Gray’s at the end of the week.
Friday 8 August, 10:00 - 13:00
Following your participation in workshops throughout the week, you are invited to be part of the installation team, who together will install artwork in preparation for an exhibition called the ‘Mini Revel’.
All artworks must be ready to install at Gray’s School of Art for Friday 8 August 2025, 10:00.
Friday 8 August, 14:00 - 16:00
Exhibition 14:00-15:00.
De-install and departure 15:00 - 16:00
As a workshop participant you are invited to exhibit artwork from the programme as part of a ‘Mini Revel’.
This exhibition is a celebration of your week in the life of art school and is a chance to meet different participants.
You are encouraged to invite friends and family to celebrate your first exhibition at Gray’s School of Art — or your second, if you joined us last year.
Last chance to sign up: 22 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/engage-at-grays/evening-courses:
Engage at Gray's
Our evening provision will consist of a 2.5 hour evening workshop each week, for a total of 9 weeks.
There are a range of disciplines to choose from including: Ceramics, Textile Printing, Photography, Drawing and Painting.
These courses will not be formally assessed.
Final chance to sign up by Monday 12 May 2025.
Thank you for your patience whilst we continue to develop the new Creative Development Programme called ‘Engage’.
If you have a question about our evening courses or any of our other courses in the programme, please get in touch with the Engage at Gray's Team and we'll do our best to help.
Ceramics for the Beginner with Mags Gray This 9-week evening course is designed to provide beginners with the basic skills required to hand build with clay.
Throughout the duration of the course, you will focus on a number of different processes that will provide you with the basic skills required to construct your own three- dimensional form.
Ceramics for the Intermediate with Kevin Andrew Morris This 9-week intermediate evening course is designed to guide participants in developing their projects with tutor-led demonstrations and support.
Throughout the course, you will explore a range of techniques for creating ceramics, including hand-building, mould making, casting, and finishing techniques.
Exploring the figure: Drawing and Painting with Claire Kidd Throughout this series of drawing and painting workshops, participants are invited to engage with both traditional and contemporary approaches to figure drawing.
Participants can expect to learn measuring techniques, tonal drawing and painting techniques and are invited to experiment with movement and mark making techniques in order to produce their own studies of the human form.
Photography for the Beginner with Neal Murray This 9-week course has been designed to provide beginners with the basic principles of Film Photography, a discipline also referred to as Analogue Photography.
During the course you will be introduced to manual camera operation, darkroom practice, studio practice and the production of black and white prints.
Photography for the Intermediate with Neal Murray The aim of this 9-week course is to provide guidance to those currently exploring Film Photography or Analogue Photography at an intermediate stage.
The course will enable a further understanding of how to develop your manual camera techniques.
The course will enable you to extend your practice using the darkroom and enhance the quality of the black and white prints you produce.
Portraiture: Drawing and Painting with Nicole Porter This 9-week evening course provides a comprehensive introduction to portraiture, covering fundamental techniques from facial structure and proportions to advanced topics like lighting, colour mixing and refining details.
Suitable for beginners and those seeking to improve, participants will develop their personal style through demonstrations and hands-on practice.
Textile Design and Print with Kari Stenhouse During this 9-week evening course, you will learn how to prepare and transfer your designs from paper to fabric through screen printing using various techniques.
This series of workshops is designed to help you develop your own projects with guidance from the tutor and is designed to support those working at both beginner and intermediate levels.
The Potter's Wheel: Beginner to Advanced with Matthew Wilcock This 9-week evening course invites participants to explore the ancient craft of throwing; a method of forming pottery using a potter’s wheel.
With a small group size of just five, the course offers tailored one-on-one tuition suitable for makers of all levels, from beginners to advanced.
Typography with Eva Crawford-McKee This series of 9 workshops introduces participants to typography and print design, guiding them through creative exploration with various techniques and materials.
Led by graphic designer Eva Crawford-McKee, the workshops cover a variety of practices, including hand lettering, moveable type, screen printing, and letterpress.
This 9-week evening course is designed to provide beginners with the basic skills required to hand build with clay.
This 9-week intermediate evening course is designed to guide participants in developing their projects with tutor-led demonstrations and support.
Throughout this series of drawing and painting workshops, participants are invited to engage with both traditional and contemporary approaches to figure drawing.
This 9-week course has been designed to provide beginners with the basic principles of Film Photography, a discipline also referred to as Analogue Photography.
The aim of this 9-week course is to provide guidance to those currently exploring Film Photography or Analogue Photography at an intermediate stage.
This 9-week evening course provides a comprehensive introduction to portraiture, covering fundamental techniques from facial structure and proportions to advanced topics like lighting, colour mixing and refining details.
During this 9-week evening course, you will learn how to prepare and transfer your designs from paper to fabric through screen printing using various techniques.
This 9-week evening course invites participants to explore the ancient craft of throwing; a method of forming pottery using a potter’s wheel.
This series of 9 workshops introduces participants to typography and print design, guiding them through creative exploration with various techniques and materials.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/aberdeen-business-school:
Academic Schools
Aberdeen Business School was named Business School of the Year 2020 (THE Awards 2020) and is also accredited by AACSB International (AACSB) , an accolade achieved by 6% of global Business Schools.
We develop professional thinkers and innovative contributors through business connected learning, award winning teaching and internationally recognised impactful research.
Our vision is to empower people and businesses today to change our tomorrow.
At Aberdeen Business School we harness our business connectivity and applied research to provide an outstanding student experience and nurture the business leaders of tomorrow.
We offer a range of undergraduate, postgraduate, professional development and research degree programmes across a number of business areas such as management and international business and more specialist academic areas including;
At Aberdeen Business School we pride ourselves on our accessibility and flexibility.
We treat you as an individual and work collectively to design the most appropriate route to maximise your individual career capital.
We offer on-campus, online and work based learning study, and many of our courses are available both in full time and part time modes.
This range of course provision gives you the flexibility to choose the course that is right for you and your circumstances.
We strive to provide you with an education that will equip you with the skills and capabilities for your future career or indeed your career development.
We recognise the importance of creativity and innovation in business education and all our students are exposed to a variety of business creation, innovation and entrepreneurial related modules.
For example, most of our full-time, on campus undergraduate students undertake a Business Ideas and Opportunities module which provides you with the opportunity to develop your business creativity by working in multidisciplinary teams.
You can further develop these ideas in the third year of your programme by spending time in the University’s Accelerator unit.
We will nurture your potential, expand your talent and ensure you have the edge when it comes to your career opportunities.
At Aberdeen Business School, we are in the business of changing your tomorrow.
Help to Grow: Management The 12-week UK Government-backed Help to Grow: Management course at RGU will help you boost your leadership skills and your business performance.
Aberdeen Business School named as Business School of the Year at THE Awards Robert Gordon University’s (RGU) Aberdeen Business School has been announced as the Business School of the Year at the Times Higher Education 2020 Awards.
The 12-week UK Government-backed Help to Grow: Management course at RGU will help you boost your leadership skills and your business performance.
Robert Gordon University’s (RGU) Aberdeen Business School has been announced as the Business School of the Year at the Times Higher Education 2020 Awards.
The Riverside Building offers excellent student facilities including independent study stations, group study pods, modern lecture theatres and IT services.
Located in picturesque surroundings, on the banks of the tranquil River Dee, Aberdeen Business School students can even enjoy a moment of calm with a leisurely stroll in-between lectures and classes.
The Digital Suite, housed within the Aberdeen Business School, includes a suite of iMacs and is used by a variety of subject areas across the University.
We have a fully functional Radio Studio on campus, housed in the Riverside Building, which contains industry standard equipment for you to take advantage of.
The TV Studio can be found in the Riverside Building, which also houses the Radio Station and Newsroom.
We offer placement opportunities in all of our undergraduate courses, with many of these opportunities being salaried and a full year in duration.
We also offer work-based learning opportunities across all of our full time on campus MSc courses with a 2-year Extended Masters route incorporating a paid work placement being available on many of our courses.
Your placement gives you the opportunity to take on the role of a graduate trainee within a business setting where you will see the workplace from an informed perspective and put into practice the theories, strategies and skills you’ve studied.
In addition, many of our students are offered permanent positions within their placement company on graduation.
We have a dedicated Placement Office who help to find relevant placement opportunities at local, national and sometimes international organisations
"I spent my third year in Colorado, working for a global technology company.
This experience allowed me to cross-train in different departments, significantly enhancing my skillset.
My placement year was outstanding and definitely increased my employability as a graduate.
I have just been offered a position as Marketing Executive with The Scottish Salmon Company Ltd., after impressing my interviewers with my knowledge and expertise acquired during placement.”
Hear more about Laura’s placement with Microsoft UK during her third year studying BA (Hons) Management with Marketing.
Stuart Common started his career at Mackie's of Scotland during his placement year while studying Management at RGU.
It wasn't long before he returned to the company after graduating to spend the next decade working in various roles within the company.
Stuart is now Managing Director of Mackie’s of Scotland.
Hear more about Stuart’s inspiring story:
Many of our undergraduate courses offer you the opportunity to spend a semester abroad in Europe, North America and South East Asia and we in turn welcome students from around the globe.
A semester abroad is extremely rewarding and will help develop your knowledge and skills by learning in a different social and cultural context.
Combining a semester abroad with a fully paid placement helps you to stand out from the crowd when seeking graduate employment.
This recognises that we provide an outstanding business education and help create top quality work-ready graduates.
Aberdeen Business School is accredited by AACSB International (AACSB) joining an elite group of business schools around the world to be accredited by the global body.
We are one of only seven institutions in Scotland to hold AACSB accreditation, with the accreditation only being earned by 6% of the world’s business schools.
Our undergraduate, master's, and doctorate degree programs have passed rigorous standards for quality.
AACSB-accredited schools are considered to have better programs, better students, more employers that recruit from them, and graduates that receive better salaries.
Aberdeen Business Schools has been awarded the Small Business Charter Award , in recognition of our commitment to supporting the small business community, student entrepreneurship, and the local economy.
Our courses are accredited by a range of professional bodies including:
Our courses are practical, relevant and designed in partnership with industry and relevant professional bodies to ensure you are equipped with professionally relevant skills that employers are seeking.
Our Industry Liaison Groups provides a forum for dialogue between employers and staff members and to co-ordinate employer input to course development and design.
Most of our full-time undergraduate courses give you the opportunity to undertake a placement as an integral part of your degree programme.
If you opt not to go on placement, you will have the opportunity to work on live client projects with a range of different organisations albeit within the University setting.
All of our Masters students are exposed to a variety of masterclasses by leading business professionals on contemporary business topics and there are various opportunities to interact and network with business experts in your chosen field of study.
In addition, you will complete your postgraduate qualification with an applied research project which provides you with a variety of options most suited to your career aspirations including a business consultancy project.
Business led workshops and guest lectures are an integral part of our courses and give you the opportunity to interact, engage with and listen to a wide range of leading industry speakers from a variety of national and international business perspectives.
We have developed a strong relationship with the Business & Hotel Management School (B.H.M.S) in Lucerne, Switzerland.
B.H.M.S, part of the Benedict Education Group, offer a number of RGU validated business courses:
We are proud to be associated with leading organisations who offer scholarship opportunities to our students:
Aberdeen Business School hosts a vibrant research community and is active in a number of applied research topics.
We offer expertise and doctoral research opportunities in a wide range of business and management subject areas including accounting and finance, entrepreneurship, media, human resource management, tourism, marketing, operations, project management and supply chain management.
Led by Dr James Cunningham, the work of the group focuses on entrepreneurship and innovation activities in micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises.
Continuing the legacy of entrepreneurship research within Aberdeen Business School, our researchers embrace a variety of perspectives on entrepreneurship and innovation, utilising a range of approaches to provide a multi-faceted view on how entrepreneurship and innovation contribute to our society.
Recent studies by the group’s researchers and doctoral community have focused on the contextual nature of entrepreneurship, considering issues such as social interaction, particularities of place and industry, and the role of entrepreneurship in developing economies.
Led by Professor Peter Strachan, the research interests of the group include circular economy, green businesses, energy policy, energy transitions, and social acceptance of major energy infrastructure developments.
Much of the work in Aberdeen Business School is interdisciplinary and themes include energy, health, digital, sustainability, heritage, place, gender, storytelling and inclusive and creative societies.
Aberdeen Business School staff.
Including full-time academic staff and all professional support staff indexed under each of our subject areas.
Accounting The Accounting subject team provides input on accounting topics including financial reporting, management accounting, audit and taxation on accounting and management courses within ABS.
The accounting courses are accredited by professional accounting bodies, ICAS and ACCA.
The team comprises professionally qualified accountants and those with research backgrounds in accountancy.
Economics, Energy and Sustainability This subject team provides teaching, learning, placement support, consultancy, and wide academic research in areas of Business, Labour & Energy Economics, Sustainability, and the Energy Sector.
The focus is to equip students with knowledge in the fundamentals of the subject area to have skills for key decision-making that take place in business functions within an energy & sustainability context.
Entrepreneurship The Entrepreneurship subject team covers all aspects of entrepreneurial activity, from academic understanding to practical application and business start-up.
Executive Management Team The Executive Management Team comprises the Dean of Aberdeen Business School, three Associate Deans and the School Operations Manager.
Finance The Finance team teaches and researches financial principles and practices, including real-world applications of analytical, quantitative, and decision-making skills for success in the dynamic field of finance.
The team’s work covers the personal, corporate, and multilateral finance nexus and contemporary discourses on financial strategy, sustainable finance, investment, and wealth management.
Human Resource Management The Human Resource Management (HRM) team provides input across undergraduate, postgraduate and work-based learning courses within ABS, with a particular focus on the CIPD-accredited MSc Human Resource Management.
Areas of research include HR principles, employee engagement, organisational behaviour and evidence-based practice.
Procurement Supply Chain Management and Operations The procurement, supply chain and operations team provide high quality subject content across undergraduate, postgraduate, work based and commercial settings.
With close industry connections we focus on the supply needs of a range of industry sectors.
Our MSc in Procurement and Supply Chain Management is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply.
Professional Accounting The Professional Accounting team provides input across undergraduate, postgraduate and work-based learning courses within ABS, with a particular focus on courses aligned or integrated with Professional Accounting Bodies such as ICAS, ACCA and CIMA.
Professional Support Staff Professional support staff in Aberdeen Business School provide essential support from managing administrative processes, supporting teaching and learning to providing logistical support for events.
Their expertise ensures seamless operations across the breadth of work within the School and wider University.
Project Management The Project Management team brings a wealth of expertise and practical insight to our dynamic teaching, learning and research environment within Aberdeen Business School.
With diverse industry and research backgrounds, our staff collectively share a passion for cultivating effective project graduates.
Research Aberdeen Business School hosts a vibrant and inclusive research community.
Active in contemporary national and international applied research, we offer expertise and doctoral research opportunities in a wide range of business subject areas including accounting and finance, management, and people, organisations and practice.
Strategy and International Business The Strategy and International Business subject team deliver teaching and research relating to the operations, challenges and tensions that shape and characterise the global business environment, and to the role and delivery of strategic thinking and management capabilities.
Tourism, Hospitality and Events The tourism, hospitality and events subject team have extensive and varied industry, teaching and research experience in the wider tourism industry.
The team draw upon all their individual interests and insight in order to provide both undergraduate and postgraduate courses which ensure practical and academic learning within discipline specific management courses.
The Accounting subject team provides input on accounting topics including financial reporting, management accounting, audit and taxation on accounting and management courses within ABS.
This subject team provides teaching, learning, placement support, consultancy, and wide academic research in areas of Business, Labour & Energy Economics, Sustainability, and the Energy Sector.
The Entrepreneurship subject team covers all aspects of entrepreneurial activity, from academic understanding to practical application and business start-up.
The Executive Management Team comprises the Dean of Aberdeen Business School, three Associate Deans and the School Operations Manager.
The Finance team teaches and researches financial principles and practices, including real-world applications of analytical, quantitative, and decision-making skills for success in the dynamic field of finance.
The Human Resource Management (HRM) team provides input across undergraduate, postgraduate and work-based learning courses within ABS, with a particular focus on the CIPD-accredited MSc Human Resource Management.
The procurement, supply chain and operations team provide high quality subject content across undergraduate, postgraduate, work based and commercial settings.
The Professional Accounting team provides input across undergraduate, postgraduate and work-based learning courses within ABS, with a particular focus on courses aligned or integrated with Professional Accounting Bodies such as ICAS, ACCA and CIMA.
Professional support staff in Aberdeen Business School provide essential support from managing administrative processes, supporting teaching and learning to providing logistical support for events.
The Project Management team brings a wealth of expertise and practical insight to our dynamic teaching, learning and research environment within Aberdeen Business School.
Aberdeen Business School hosts a vibrant and inclusive research community.
The Strategy and International Business subject team deliver teaching and research relating to the operations, challenges and tensions that shape and characterise the global business environment, and to the role and delivery of strategic thinking and management capabilities.
The tourism, hospitality and events subject team have extensive and varied industry, teaching and research experience in the wider tourism industry.
Starts: Wednesday 03 September 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-projects/about-our-research:
Research Projects
The focus at Robert Gordon University is on applied research.
An integral part of our purpose is to build a research base of staff and students who undertake highly relevant leading-edge research that advances knowledge and provides tangible benefits to the wider economy and society.
RGU has world class researchers in allied health professions, computer science, engineering, architecture and built environment, accounting and finance, business and management, communication, marketing and media, library and information management, and art and design.
Our research repository OpenAIR contains examples of research outputs produced by staff and research students, as well as related information about the university's funded projects and staff research interests.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/research-projects/funding-for-research-projects:
When looking for funding opportunities, Research Professional is an excellent source of information.
The site is the gateway to a massive resource of UK and international funding opportunities as well as useful news and policy relating to research.
To access the portal, you will need to set up an account and then create email alerts based on your area(s) of interest.
For help with either account set up or creating email alerts, contact us at research@rgu.ac.uk .
Include:
For further information, please contact the Research Office: research@rgu.ac.uk
For support using Worktribe please contact worktribe@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/school-of-computing-engineering-and-technology:
Our cutting-edge courses equip you with the expertise to excel in a wide range of computing and engineering technologies.
You'll study in purpose-built, state-of-the-art facilities, learning practical, creative and problem-solving skills across a range of emerging technologies.
You will also gain valuable technical, personal and professional skills, to compliment your career-enhancing qualification.
Situated in Europe’s energy capital, our strong ties to local, national and global development, data, energy and manufacturing industries provide you with real-world challenges and opportunities.
This close relationship with our industry partners helps ensure that we continue to meet the demands of employers and their changing industries.
The result is a flexible, enhancing education that empowers you to tackle complex projects and succeed in a range of digital and engineering careers.
The world faces several global challenges many of which can only be solved with the application of digital and engineering technologies.
Net-Zero Energy Scenarios, Green Energy Networks and Smart City infrastructures are examples of where computing and engineering disciplines must come together to support solutions.
Society increasingly relies on engineers and digital professionals to fully participate in the urgent transition to net zero.
We need to build the capabilities of people working in new forms and new applications of engineering, and we ensure that our graduates are globally responsible and able to act sustainably, ethically and equability.
The concept of “crafting” innovative solutions to problems forms the basis of many of our modules, which use project-based learning for teaching and assessment.
This type of approach enables us to embed entrepreneurial thinking into these modules and encourage our students to think about what they are creating, what purpose it will have and who it is for.
We embed entrepreneurial approaches within our modules, fostering an entrepreneurial spirit both across the School and giving our students the confidence to stay curious and challenge the norm.
We can support you to form your own venture and develop innovative skills to expand your horizons beyond the taught curriculum.
Recent students have launched their own businesses, undertaken commercial projects in parallel with their studies, published research papers at international conferences and won national competitions.
Our School has an excellent reputation for its innovative and practical approaches to teaching and learning.
For generations it has produced qualified professionals across a broad spectrum of technical careers with graduates in high profile, international roles.
Our academic team members have a wide range of qualifications, experience and expertise, which is reflected in the portfolio of innovative and flexible degree programmes on offer.
They also engage in research, consultancy and the provision of specialist courses for industry.
This means that our School is actively involved in all professional aspects of our subject areas and can keep you up-to-date on current practices and modern advances, as well as challenges facing the industry.
We take a lead in technology-enhanced learning through a combination of interactive lectures, group project work and practical exercises in state-of-the art laboratories.
Our students frequently comment on the quality of support and teaching they receive, and staff regularly win student-nominated prizes at RGU’s annual Star Awards.
Our areas are about resolving complex problems and challenges and designing the essential products, services and processes that we all use every day.
We appreciate that for prospective undergraduate students it may be difficult for you to pinpoint right now the exact direction you wish to follow in your studies and in your subsequent career.
That’s why we have made our undergraduate course programmes as flexible as possible, to allow you to choose the right direction once you have a better understanding of each strand.
The majority of our courses allow you to choose electives in other areas of computing, engineering and technology allowing to build your own path and expertise suited to the career you want to pursue.
Many of our courses are accredited by the British Computer Society for CITP or CEng .
The MSc Cyber Security degree is certified by the National Cyber Security Centre , part of the UK Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).
We are one of only three universities in Scotland to receive this recognition.
The School is an accredited Cisco Academy , delivering the theoretical and practical content of a number of industry-acknowledged qualifications.
We are passionate about inspiring the next generation of computer scientists, that is why we are proud to be a signatory of the Digital Technology Education Charter (DTEC) .
DTEC brings together organisations, individuals and education to support, encourage and raise awareness of computer science to secondary schools across Scotland
The School of Computing, Engineering and Technology boasts modern, purpose-built laboratories and facilities, equipped with the very latest technologies, ensuring that you always have access the tools to undertake industry-level projects, and enhance your learning experience.
This includes an engineering applications lab, ROV pool, wind tunnel and the 'Slice of Ocean Wave Tank' which is currently helping researchers to study and test new innovative wave power technology that can withstand harsh environments.
We host high specification PCs, running the latest industry-standard software over nine IT labs.
We have specialised facilities for supporting graphics and interactive digital media development, including a large scale render farm, a Mac suite, soundproof booth used for podcasting, and the green screen suite used in multimedia video production, a chroma key and motion capture suite as well as a Cisco networking laboratory.
In the cyber security laboratory, each student has access to a CCNA/P equivalent of equipment (switches and routers) pod, which offers a mix of ethernet connectivity and console connectors.
Established relationships with major software suppliers mean access to the latest software either for free or very low prices.
Digital media students make extensive use of this lab where Intuos graphics tablets are available for use with Adobe suite software.
Our purpose built computer labs are where you can test and adapt your chosen solutions.
A specialist networking lab with specialised kit dedicated to the teaching of network security modules
A total of 335 desktop workstations are available in the 9 IT labs in the School.
A custom built professional filming space.
The School of Computing, Engineering and Technology’s main multimedia lab.
This drop in lab is available for honours year students who need a quiet environment to carry out their project work.
Get creative using our digital video editing lab and sound recording booth.
You will have access to our Computing Laboratory which houses PCs for engineering including all the relevant software.
The DART (Dynamic Advanced Response Training) simulation suite provides realistic, real-time training within a virtual drilling environment.
Our purpose-built Engineering Applications Labs are mainly utilised for practical work in your first and second years of studying and can be found in the Sir Ian Wood Building.
The Electronic Laboratory can be found in the Sir Ian Wood Building and is mainly used to teach Engineering students about analogue and digital circuits.
The Electrical Power Laboratory is located in the Sir Ian Wood Building and is for teaching Electronic Engineering and research.
Our Microcontroller Laboratory can be found in the Sir Ian Wood Building and is mainly used to teach electronics within the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology.
The Nanocomposite Manufacturing Laboratory, located within Sir Ian Wood Building, contains facilities such as polymer blending, polymer synthesis, micro indenter, vacuum pumps and vacuum drying.
There are a number of Offshore and Subsea Models that have been loaned to the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology .
The Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) Pool is primarily used for testing for both research projects and training for businesses.
Our Wind Tunnel is used by the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology for experimental procedures and hands-on learning.
Our undergraduate degrees include optional placements (subject to availability), usually undertaken between the second and third year of study.
Industrial placements are an important part of the learning experience at RGU.
They provide an opportunity to gain a structured learning experience within a professional environment and to consolidate and broaden the knowledge gained in academic studies.
Placement experiences also increase employability upon graduation, and give employers access to motivated students who can undertake projects or other tasks as required by organisation.
These placements are typically eight to twelve months in length and are often a paid opportunity for students to get relevant industry-standard technical and professional skills.
A number of our placement students are able to carry on working with their placement company part-time, even after their placement has officially ended.
Several have been able to gain offers of full time employment with the same companies, conditional to the completion of their degrees.
Students also have the opportunity to spend up to a year studying at a partner institution, allowing them to diversify their curriculum and to widen their horizons.
Current partners include France, Sweden, Norway and The Netherlands.
The benefits for both employers and students are huge; students learn from working alongside professionals and employers benefit from a valuable resource with valuable skills, knowledge and fresh ideas.
With a global reach that shapes all aspects of society, our strong links with industry ensure that our courses respond quickly to changes in the marketplace.
We take a dynamic and innovative approach to teaching the technologies needed to address 21st century challenges.
Computing is always on the move, offering a direct, creative and inspiring route into stimulating employment.
We have close working relationships with the global IT and energy industries, as well as local and national digital media organisations.
They inform our course design so that modules and projects are industry-relevant, based on contemporary theory, and take into account the practical needs of your potential employers.
Guest speakers from companies such as Microsoft, Logica, Total and Apple bring a rich understanding of current technology and professional software practice.
We are proud to be associated with many leading organisations, institutions and professional bodies.
BCS is the leading professional body for those working in IT.
They have over 68,000 members in more than 100 countries and are the qualifying body for Chartered IT Professionals (CITP).
They are also an international awarding body for a wide range of qualifications for both users of IT and IT specialists.
Our Network Management MSc students gain CICSO accredited modules.
Sri Lanka’s first Big Data Analytics MSc postgraduate degree programme is delivered by Informatics Institute of Technology (IIT) in collaboration with RGU.
We are the first university in Scotland to confirm the structure and content of courses which are being delivered as part of SDS new work-based learning degrees.
We are delivering two Graduate Apprenticeships (GAs) , which to address the national digital skills shortage.
BSc (Hons) IT Management for Business and a BSc (Hons) Software Development for Business.
RGU and the multinational provider of risk management and sustainability services, DNV GL , have joined forces on a project which aims to deliver cost savings to the oil and gas industry.
The project, ‘Digitization Platform for Processing, Detecting and Classifying Symbols in Engineering Drawings’, is being funded by The Data Lab Innovation Centre, supported by DNV GL, and delivered by a team of researchers from RGU
The Energy Institute (EI) is the leading professional body for the energy industries, supporting almost 13,500 professionals internationally.
One of the world's leading professional societies for the engineering and technology community.
The fastest growing professional engineering institution in the UK.
Repsol Resources, an independent upstream oil and gas company, provides scholarship opportunities to our  engineering, business, management and accounting students.
Petrofac is an international provider of facilities solutions to the oil and gas production and processing industries.
The company currently supports our School of Computing, Engineering & Technology and Aberdeen Business School students by providing scholarship opportunities.
PE Limited (Petex) is a petroleum engineering and structural geology company which develops a wide range of software tools.
Students from RGU benefit from use of the IPM Suite of applications, a donation worth £2million each year.
KCA Deutag is one of the world's leading onshore and offshore drilling and engineering contractors.
The company currently supports our School of Computing, Engineering and Technology, and Aberdeen Business School students by providing scholarship opportunities.
Technip is a world leader in engineering, technologies and project management for the oil and gas industry.
Backed by more than 50 years of experience, Technip is a key contributor to the development of technologies and sustainable solutions for the exploitation of the world's energy resources.
FMC Technologies, Inc.
(NYSE:FTI) is a leading global provider of technology solutions for the energy industry and other industrial markets.
The Company designs, manufactures and services technologically sophisticated systems and products such as subsea production and processing systems and surface wellhead systems.
Wood is a global leader in the delivery of project, engineering and technical services to energy and industrial markets.
It operates in more than 60 countries, employing around 55,000 people, with revenues of over $10 billion.
Worley Parsons provides its customers with a wide range of consulting and advisory services, and deep technical expertise across multiple projects.
The Bureau Veritas Group has consistently built recognised expertise, helping clients comply with standards and regulations relating to quality, health and safety, environment and social responsibility.
The Group manages client relationships and delivers a comprehensive range of services including inspection, testing, auditing, certification, ship classification and related technical assistance, training and outsourcing.
Sparrows Offshore Services is the lead brand within Energy Cranes International Limited, the world's most successful marine crane and lifting services contractor in the offshore oil and gas industry.
AGR Group is a leading provider of essential services and technologies to the international petroleum industry.
As the fifth largest publicly-traded integrated oil and gas company in the world, and a major actor in the chemicals business, Total has operations in more than 130 countries on five continents with approximately 97,000 employees.
To meet growing energy needs on a long-term basis, Total's strategy involves deploying a sustainable growth model combining the acceptability of its activities with a sustained program of profitable investments.
Research in Computing at RGU brings together researchers in computer science and engineering with a diverse range of specialisms and experience.
Our vision is to carry out leading-edge applied computer science research with a high industrial and societal impact.
We bring novel technology, theoretical innovation and scientific rigour to bear on tough and demanding real-world problems.
Our research has been successfully applied across a broad range of industrial and societal areas including engineering, medicine, aerospace, telecommunications, transport, journalism, and heritage.
We are always keen to extend our collaboration with industrial partners, which include leading multinational companies as well as small and medium sized enterprises.
We have 3 Computing Research Groups:
Our research focuses on providing innovative and practical solutions to industrial problems, with particularly strong industry-focused research in the oil and gas and renewable/sustainable energy sectors.
Our research is well recognised for transferring new technologies to industry through spin-out companies, patents and knowledge transfer partnerships.
We develop original ideas through to applications, with particular emphasis on implementation for wealth creation and life-quality improvement.
We have several laboratory suites specifically designed for research and promote a dynamic environment without traditional discipline-related barriers; which has benefited the development of multi-disciplinary Research Groups which are Well Engineering, Multiphase Flow Modelling, Condition Monitoring, and Advanced Materials.
The related subjects of Energy, Environment and Sustainability (EES) extend across a range of significant research activities within our Design & Technology Research subjects.
Our staff are split into Academic staff, involved in both teaching and research, Research staff (Research Fellows, Research Assistants and KTP Associates) primarily involved in research projects but may also help in teaching, and Support staff, consisting of administrators, IT systems staff, and demonstrators (who assist in the delivery of practical classes).
Our academic and research staff have a breadth of experience and diverse mix of skills in teaching, research and professional practice across our core fields of computer science, data science, creative computing and cyber security.
John Isaacs Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
John Isaacs's staff profile
Dean
Judith Abolle-Okoyeagu Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Judith Abolle-Okoyeagu's staff profile Morgan Adams Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Morgan Adams's staff profile Ioannis Agouris Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ioannis Agouris's staff profile Hatem Ahriz Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hatem Ahriz's staff profile Dallia Ali Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dallia Ali's staff profile Ityona Amber Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ityona Amber's staff profile Mohamed Amish Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mohamed Amish's staff profile Taimoor Asim Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Taimoor Asim's staff profile Suhail Attar Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Suhail Attar's staff profile Shahana Bano Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Shahana Bano's staff profile Mark Bartlett Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mark Bartlett's staff profile John N A Brown Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
John N A Brown's staff profile Niccolo Capanni Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Corsar Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Corsar's staff profile Hossam Eldessouky Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hossam Eldessouky's staff profile Eyad Elyan Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Eyad Elyan's staff profile Pascal Ezenkwu Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pascal Ezenkwu's staff profile Nadimul Faisal Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nadimul Faisal's staff profile Daniel Gardner Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daniel Gardner's staff profile Muhammad Shadi Hajar Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Muhammad Shadi Hajar's staff profile Ian Harris Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ian Harris's staff profile Mamdud Hossain Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mamdud Hossain's staff profile Kit-ying Hui Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kit-ying Hui's staff profile Ebuka Ibeke Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ebuka Ibeke's staff profile Ibiye Iyalla Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ibiye Iyalla's staff profile Pam Johnston Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pam Johnston's staff profile Harsha Kalutarage Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Harsha Kalutarage's staff profile Somasundar Kannan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Somasundar Kannan's staff profile Aditya Karnik Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Aditya Karnik's staff profile Murphy Lai Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Murphy Lai's staff profile Zonghua Liu Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Zonghua Liu's staff profile Ruissein Mahon Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ruissein Mahon's staff profile Kyle Martin Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kyle Martin's staff profile John McCall Emeritus Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
John McCall's staff profile Cathy McCullagh Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Cathy McCullagh's staff profile Christopher McDermott Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Christopher McDermott's staff profile Jamie McDonald Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jamie McDonald's staff profile Ross McLean Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ross McLean's staff profile M S Mekala Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
M S Mekala's staff profile Carlos Moreno-Garcia Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Carlos Moreno-Garcia's staff profile Lankesh Munasinghe Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lankesh Munasinghe's staff profile Verda Munir Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Verda Munir's staff profile Jay Munro Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jay Munro's staff profile James Njuguna NSC Director of Research and Innovation This email address is being protected from spambots.
James Njuguna's staff profile Clare O'Farrell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gbenga Oluyemi Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gbenga Oluyemi's staff profile Ketan Pancholi Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ketan Pancholi's staff profile Elliot Pirie Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Elliot Pirie's staff profile Radhakrishna Prabhu Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Radhakrishna Prabhu's staff profile Anil Prathuru Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anil Prathuru's staff profile Adrian Rendon Nava Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Adrian Rendon Nava's staff profile Paula Rorie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Shahneel Saharudin Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Shahneel Saharudin's staff profile Janaka Senanayake Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janaka Senanayake's staff profile Faisal Shah Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mark Snaith Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mark Snaith's staff profile Naomi Turner Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nirmalie Wiratunga Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nirmalie Wiratunga's staff profile Muhammad Younas Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Muhammad Younas's staff profile Tiffany Young Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tiffany Young's staff profile Hossein Zanganeh Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hossein Zanganeh's staff profile Mark Zarb Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mark Zarb's staff profile Yafan Zhao Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Associate Professor
Lecturer
Principal Lecturer
Senior Lecturer
Fixed Term P/T Lecturer
Professor
Associate Dean for ESCD
Emeritus Professor
NSC Director of Research and Innovation
Associate Dean for ADSE
Associate Dean for Research
Joan Alza Santos Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joan Alza Santos's staff profile DIPTO ARIFEEN RGU Alumni This email address is being protected from spambots.
DIPTO ARIFEEN's staff profile Murshedul Arifeen KTP Associate This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lee Christie Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lee Christie's staff profile Truong Dang Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Truong Dang's staff profile Glenn Forbes KTP Associate This email address is being protected from spambots.
Amber Gillam Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ruaidhri MacKenzie Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Eleanor MacLeod Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Eleanor MacLeod's staff profile Thanh Nguyen Senior Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Thanh Nguyen's staff profile Ikechukwu Nkisi-Orji Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ikechukwu Nkisi-Orji's staff profile Craig Pirie Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Craig Pirie's staff profile Sampath Rajapaksha KTP Associate This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vinoth Ramalingam Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vinoth Ramalingam's staff profile Jinchang Ren Honorary Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jinchang Ren's staff profile Ali Rohan Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ali Rohan's staff profile Atakan Sahin Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Atakan Sahin's staff profile Pedram Salimi Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hieu Vu KTP Associate This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vihanga Wijayasekara Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vihanga Wijayasekara's staff profile Ciprian Zavoianu Research Programme Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ciprian Zavoianu's staff profile
Research Assistant
RGU Alumni
KTP Associate
Research Fellow
Senior Research Fellow
Chancellor's Fellow
Honorary Professor
Research Programme Lead
Steve Allardyce Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nick Anderson Engineering Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sibgha Anwar Demonstrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Umair Arshad Demonstrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tiwonge Banda Demonstrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Claire Barclay Research Development Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colin Beagrie System Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iain Bell Senior Systems Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Benjamin Bird Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynne Brien School Project Coordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kelly Buchan Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Phil Chaplain Engineering Services Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Shona Clark School Administration Team Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ashleigh Cullen Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
JOHN-BOSCO DIEKUU DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - COMPUTING, ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY (RP) This email address is being protected from spambots.
JOHN-BOSCO DIEKUU's staff profile Debbie Downer Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ikenna Ekeke Demonstrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Susan Frost Systems Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rianne Gorman School Finance Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vicki Grant Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ross Henderson Engineering Design Technician This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Howie Engineering Design Technician This email address is being protected from spambots.
Patrick Kane Engineering Design Technician This email address is being protected from spambots.
Adam Lyons Systems Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Allan MacPherson Engineering Design Technician This email address is being protected from spambots.
Louise McDowell School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Louise McDowell's staff profile Dan McMahon VLE Helpdesk & Support Analyst This email address is being protected from spambots.
Greg Morrison Assistant Systems Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Scott Murison Engineering Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Thomas Murray Course Coordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Regina Ofori-Boateng Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Robert Paisley Demonstrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pawel Plachecki Systems Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jackie Velcheva Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Robbie Weir School Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Applications Supervisor
Engineering Applications Supervisor
Demonstrator
Research Development Co-ordinator
System Manager
Senior Systems Administrator
School Project Coordinator
Course Administrator
Engineering Services Manager
School Administration Team Lead
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - COMPUTING, ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY (RP)
Systems Administrator
School Finance Administrator
Engineering Design Technician
School Operations Manager
VLE Helpdesk & Support Analyst
Assistant Systems Administrator
Course Coordinator
School Administrator
Antoinette Hettiaratchy Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Austen Mascranghe Head of Department This email address is being protected from spambots.
Azmiya Cassim IIT Assistant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Cassim Farook Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chathura Rajapakse IIT Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Deependra Ariyadewa Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Deepthi Ravi Chief Librarian This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dilanka W.
Arachchige Academic Secretary - Dept of Computing This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dileeka Alwis Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dinesh Asanka Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dinusha Kumara IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fathima Farhath Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Guhanathan Poravi Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hiruni Samarage IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Imani Randhuli Kottawa Gamage IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janani Harischandra Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kavya Atapattu IIT Assistant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kodikarage Priyanayana IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lasitha Petthawadu Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Malmi Marcus IIT Associate Registrar This email address is being protected from spambots.
Malsha Fernando IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nihal Kodikara IIT Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nipuna Senanayake Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nishantha Poddiwala Hewage IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nuwan Jayawardana Visiting Researcher This email address is being protected from spambots.
P.S.M Gunaratne IIT Dean of Computing This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pasindu Hewawasam IIT Assistant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Prasad Liyanaarachchige IIT Assistant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Prasad Wimalaratne IIT Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Prasan Yapa Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Prashan Rathnayaka IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pumudu Fernando Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ragu Sivaraman Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rathesan Sivagnanalingam Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ruvan Weerasinghe Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ruwan Egodawatte IIT Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sachinthani Perera Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sajith Ravindra Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Saman Hettiarachchi Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sameera Viswakula Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sandunika Rathnayake IIT Assistant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sanjeewa Dayarathne Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sashi Reka Pradesha IIT Academic Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Subha Fernando Module Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Theja Perera Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Thilini Piyathilake Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Trevor Sorris IIT Module Leader This email address is being protected from spambots.
Warnakula Costa Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Visiting Lecturer
Head of Department
IIT Assistant Lecturer
IIT Visiting Lecturer
Chief Librarian
Academic Secretary - Dept of Computing
IIT Lecturer
IIT Associate Registrar
IIT Professor
Visiting Researcher
IIT Dean of Computing
IIT Academic Administrator
Module Co-ordinator
IIT Module Leader
Published: Tuesday 08 July 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/44-research-news:
Scottish Arctic Network (ScAN) members RGU, The University of the Highlands and Islands, and Heriot-Watt University  co-hosted a board meeting of the University of the Arctic (UArctic) between Tuesday 29 April and Thursday 30 April in Orkney.
PlanSea, which offers world-leading marine logistics artificial intelligence (AI) technology, and the National Subsea Centre (NSC), a centre of excellence for subsea research and technology development, have jointly completed the development of a subsea decommissioning optimisation software demonstrator.
The school inspection regime in England run by regulator Ofsted is contributing to chronic stress, exhaustion, and burnout among teacher educators, according to new research supported by Robert Gordon University (RGU).
RGU is leading a research project which aims to advance gender equality in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and entrepreneurship through an inclusive program for women in South Africa.
Writing in The Herald, Dr Madeleine Marcella Hood explores Scotland's fashion identity and poses the question as to whether we are making the most of what is both a rich and trending national spotlight...
A new research project led by Robert Gordon University (RGU) focusing on improving the lives of millions of women who suffer from a debilitating health condition is set to begin next month.
A new study by The James Hutton Institute has revealed an increase of up to 1,450% in the level of microplastics found within soil samples after just four years of sewage sludge application.
RGU is playing a key role in a groundbreaking £5 million research project aimed at improving the long-term cardiovascular health of young cancer survivors by harnessing the power of Artificial Intelligence (AI).
An interdisciplinary project at Robert Gordon University (RGU) involving three different academic schools has kicked off this semester as they collectively work together to discover the intricacies of community engagement and participation in a unique environment.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk/account-password:
Returning students should login using the password that you previously used for accessing Moodle, computers on campus, Wi-Fi and RGU email.
If you cannot remember your password, contact the Service Desk .
Once your place at the University is confirmed you are sent a letter or an email which confirms your personal Userid and initial password.
Your initial password is temporary and you must first login to the RGU.
Setup your ‘Questions and Answers Profile’ then change your temporary password to a new secure one before you’ll be able to log into other RGU services such as RGyoU, Moodle, wifi or email.
After you have changed your password you should be able to access information about starting your course.
If you have any issues, contact the Service Desk .
You can change your RGU password at any time using the ‘Forgot My Password’ option in the Password Management tool.
Have you checked the information in all of the options provided on this page?
Does this help to resolve your problem?
If not the IT Service Desk can assist and prefer you contact them via the IT Service Desk Portal .
The more info you can provide the quicker the Service Desk can validate you and issue a new password.
If you suspect that one of your accounts or passwords has been compromised then you must report this to the IT Service Desk .
Visitors to RGU are unable to logon to computers on campus or other RGU services.
The IT Service Desk does not issue temporary accounts.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk/print-copy-scan:
Print jobs can be sent in a variety of ways - including from home.
All MFDs can also scan and copy.
Colour printers costs significantly more than black and white.
Please note that you will be charged the colour rate when you select the colour option, even if your file is black and white.
Access and top-up your printing account:
These costs are reviewed periodically, so are subject to change.
No refunds are provided on print account balances for current or former students, except where a technical problem has been encountered.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/it-service-desk/contact-it-services:
Part of the Portal is a self-help Solutions area (including an FAQ section) that allows a user to view support articles and documents that may help with any issues or questions.
Email : ITServiceDesk@rgu.ac.uk
Staff and students will be able to visit a member of the team in person:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach:
On Thursday 13 February, The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture & Built Environment hosted an innovative taster session to offer secondary school pupils an insight into what they could expect going into a career in Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management.
Michele Vitoria, course leader, tells more…
The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment recently participated in the final of ‘Build Your Future’, an event which brought together teams of school children from secondary schools across the region in an intensive one-day competition held within the Richard Donald Stand of Pittodrie, the home of Aberdeen FC.
Staff and students from the Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment have hosted staff and students from the Royal Danish Academy this month.
A global research conference on international migration takes place next June.
The 4th global Border Urbanism Conference will be hosted by FH Joanneum, the University of Applied Science in Austria, and convened by Mag Karen Meixner and Dr Iris Altenberger from the School of Law and Social Sciences at RGU.
Dr Quazi Zaman, Chair of the Border Urbanism Research Centre (BURC), explains more.
RGU alumnus Ade Adesina has seen his career go from strength to strength since graduating.
Originally from Nigeria, he studied at Gray's to pursue his passion for art.
He is now known for pushing the limits of printmaking with his innovative work.
He answered our questions to share more about his journey.
RGU recently hosted the 28th annual meeting of the Network of International Business and Economics Schools (NIBES).
To celebrate this year's incredible summer of sport, RGU SPORT is organising three events for the Euros, Wimbledon, and the Olympics.
These "Play and Stay" events will allow staff, students, and the wider community to try out a new physical activity and watch live sport.
Continuing the University’s engagement in the Scottish party political conferences, and aiming to inform and influence political decision making, RGU recently participated in the annual conferences of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Conservatives.
Both fringe events were an opportunity to showcase the distinctiveness of what RGU has to offer, our strategic and collaborative partnerships.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience:
We’re excited to launch the new Virtual Campus Tour, giving applicants, students, staff, and our wider community the chance to explore RGU’s stunning riverside campus from wherever they are.
When I graduated from RGU back in 2014, I was ambitious and full of energy - determined to craft the perfect career and land my dream role.
Like many young professionals, I kept feeling drawn to larger cities like Edinburgh, Glasgow or London.
It seemed like there were more opportunities further afield, and a higher chance to achieve the “success” I thought I was chasing.
Aberdeen may be known as Europe’s oil and gas capital, with a quarter of the UK’s 200,000 strong energy sector workforce based here but it is so much more.
Tributes have been paid to a major figure in the progress of RGU’s Brain Injury Group who has passed away at the age of 60.
The Biomedical Science course team in the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health (SPASPH) are thrilled to be celebrating Biomedical Science Day on Thursday 5 June with a vibrant lineup of activities and competitions that showcase the creativity, curiosity, and community spirit at the heart of biomedical science.
Written for the latest Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce's (AGCC) Business Bulletin as part of the UnDiscovered Aberdeen campaign, we look at how we can and should be Aberdeen's local hero...
For the best part of 20 years, the RGU Brain Injury Group has been making a meaningful impact on the lives of individuals with acquired brain injuries (ABI).

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research:
In June, the RGU community celebrated its very first Curious Minds Research Festival.
Taking place on Thursday 19 and Friday 20 June, the festival showcased some of the exciting, diverse and impactful research taking place across the University, while also acting as a platform for networking and knowledge exchange.
At times marked by unprecedented multilateral and environmental challenges, the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) was welcomed by RGU’s School of Law and Social Sciences for an afternoon of conference bringing together RSA fellows and members of the public from across the North East of Scotland.
Dr David Smith, a Psychology Lecturer from The School of Law and Social Sciences, has written for The Metro newspaper about his research on the incel community and speaking to those men who are part of it...
As Chair of the Sustainability Committee of the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES), it was a privilege to launch the White Paper on Sustainability at the CICES Annual Dinner at the iconic King's College in Cambridge on 20 September 2024.
I am delighted to welcome you to the latest issue of RGU Research Magazine, and particularly pleased to be introducing an issue packed with news about some of the doctoral projects being undertaken at RGU.
“You don’t have to be great to start, but you do have to start to be great”, said Zig Ziglar.
In April of this year, Ewan Cruickshank, a Lecturer in the School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, was the proud recipient of The BLCS Young Scientist Award at the annual British Liquid Crystal Society conference at the University of Oxford.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people:
RGU alumnus King Wellington shares his journey from studying at RGU and graduating in 2014 to developing Africa Street MBA (AfSMBA), a platform dedicated to supporting start-ups and small businesses in Africa.
Hear from Ben Durack, Course Leader for Product, Ceramics, and Jewellery at Gray's School of Art and independent Product Designer about his experience as one of the five artists in the Tall Ships Makers Programme.
RGU alumnus Stephen Lancaster graduated from the University back when it was RGIT in 1989 with an HND in Computing.
Over the last 35 years, he has worked in multi-national businesses as well as start-ups.
He shares his most recent experience as Co-Founder and CEO of GB Bank with us.
Learn more about Malcolm Mckie, Technical Services Officer at Gray’s School of Art.
His work at Gray’s spans metalwork, woodwork, electronics, artificial intelligence and more.
Aside from his day job though, Malcolm is a keen cartoonist.
Meet Eva Starkey, Eva, works in the School of Health as a Lecturer in Diagnostic Imaging at RGU.
An alumna from Gray’s School of Art has taken part in a brand new artwork featuring live heartbeats of Aberdonians at this year’s SPECTRA.
Emmajane Kingaby who graduated from Gray’s in 2022, after winning the Principal’s Award for Fine Art, took part in the idontloveyouanymore showcase in Union Terrace Gardens by sharing her real-time heartbeat, along with fellow Aberdonians...
Having both graduated from RGU and moved into professional roles, Claire Vigot and Beinn Burroughs have returned to the University as staff.
They are working with the School of Health and The Physiotherapy Clinic at RGU and have been reflecting on their journeys which have ultimately led them back to our Garthdee campus.
RGU appoints Equality Champions for each of the nine protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010.
Claire Young is the newly appointed Equality Champion for Sexual Orientation.
Learn more about her and her work supporting our community at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development:
From clothing created with locally sourced wool and leather to wind turbine systems and unique artisan pizza, these are the 18 Aberdeen start-ups taking part in the 2025 Startup Accelerator - now in its seventh year.
With support from the UK Government, Robert Gordon University's latest Startup Accelerator has lifted off with another successful launch of our annual entrepreneurial programme.
RGU's Startup Manager Aisha Kasim shares details of the newly launched Startup Accelerator.
The Robert Gordon University Startup Accelerator, our flagship start-up development programme, is going Back to the Future for year 6!
As a nod to our inaugural 2019 cohort, this year’s competition was inclusively open to RGU staff, students, alumni within 10 years of graduation and North East Scotland College.
Celebrating the fifth year of the acclaimed business development programme, 2023's RGU Startup Accelerator programme was open exclusively to RGU students and alumni within five years of graduation.
Scotland’s Cabinet Secretary for Net Zero, Energy and Transport has praised the Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC) for working together with RGU on the National Subsea Centre (NSC).
As Robert Gordon University celebrates the 25-year anniversary of the Accounting and Finance undergraduate degree l have found myself both reminiscing and looking forward to the future.
As RGU’s Help to Grow: Management course gets ready for its latest cohort, Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer at Aberdeen Business School, David Gibbons-Wood, shares five key ways that businesses in the North East can improve their leadership skills and generate business growth…
On Thursday 12 May, the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group hosted their fourth Startup Showcase, the finale to their annual Regional Startup Accelerator Programme.
After two years of hosting events online, it was a pleasure to welcome 200 guests and a panel of judges to attend the event in person.
Sustainability is a hot topic right now and as we witness, in real time, drastic changes to our climate and catastrophic events happening across the world, we note the frequency and urgency of the sustainability debate and the need to provide solutions.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8342-how-rgus-web-team-built-an-in-house-virtual-campus-tour:
Featuring interactive 360° images, the tour highlights our modern facilities and key locations to help everyone navigate campus and discover what makes RGU special.
Created entirely in-house, this is an evolving project that we’ll continue to refine and expand as the University changes – the joys of keeping it under the RGU banner!
The idea took root after attending a conference last year where it became clear that immersive experiences beyond videos or static images are now essential, which prompted me to want to find a new solution urgently.
There were just too many benefits to ignore.
We needed the virtual tour to sing about our facilities and campus, giving people control over what they look for and where they go at the same time, helping them to picture themselves here on campus.
This realisation happened to coincide with a time of increasingly limited budgets and resources, so we needed a creative solution - an in-house, super cheap and maintainable/controllable replacement to the expensive externally produced versions most universities have.
Following stakeholder meetings and discussions, we decided to progress further and start the process of finding a suitable platform and then gather a limited series of 360 images.
Thanks to a small team of talented Scott Sutherland School students (and their fancy camera) and their unique insight, things gathered momentum.
The project was met with equal enthusiasm in every school and department that we visited - proud to showcase the equipment, services and facilities we have hidden away.
A great example of how making spaces available and known to others can help promote collaboration.
This included Gray’s School of Art students using the School of Health’s Clinical Skills wards and equipment as a still life study reference, something they’d never be able access in a real hospital.
Capturing the images was simple, making sure the spaces were ready to be featured was something different – university buildings are very busy places!
Once we found a suitable time and were happy that the leaves were swept from the floor, everything looked tidy and presentable, and importantly that we had a good hiding place, it only took us 15 seconds to take each image.
It was the best game of hide and seek I can remember playing!
It must’ve looked hilarious for any off-camera by-standers, you would usually find us crouched down behind a car or a lab bench, or squeezing ourselves behind a tree to get away from the camera.
If you can guess where we hid in some of the trickier locations, like in a spot the ball competition, I’d be tempted to give you a prize!
When the images were ready, they were then uploaded and carefully connected through the online platform we’d chosen.
Stitching it all together was the most time-consuming part.
Getting virtually lost in the Sir Ian Wood Building corridors is just as disorienting as doing it in person (yet another reason we need a virtual tour!).
Our initial plan of 10–15 images per building quickly snowballed into over 700 photos covering nearly the entire campus.
There’s no hiding that this is my passion project, coincidentally it’s also taken nine months from my initial thoughts to launching it out into the world!
Over that time, our small team has poured hundreds of hours - and an amazing amount of coffee - into this project.
The result is something we’re genuinely proud of, and we hope you find it a valuable addition, but it doesn’t stop here.
Like our website, this project will never be truly “finished,” and we’ll continue improving it over time, continually fixing issues, broken or missing links, adding and changing the photos, gathering and actioning on important feedback along the way - the polishing is ongoing.
The main aim of the project was to produce a useful resource for everyone to explore the campus in a virtual environment.
As vital and obviously important as they are to a university, I was conscious that it shouldn’t just be for our applicants and students, it should be a useful asset for many others - from community members looking for a new gym, to alumni who want to see where their donations have made a difference, to people with anxiety or accessibility needs who want to explore the campus before they visit in person.
My own family has navigated mental health and physical disabilities, so this makes my heart sing to know that with a little extra time and effort, we can help encourage even more people to engage with our university and experience what we have to offer.
After 19 years at the university, I’m still very much team RGU, but I’d say that during the past nine months of this project, this feeling has only strengthened for me, reiterating what an amazing group of people the University is made of.
Despite the recent challenges, we continue to help and encourage each other, making a real difference to people’s lives, contributing to ultimately produce brilliant graduates and partnerships.
Take a look and explore RGU!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/8305-curious-minds-a-celebration-of-the-vibrant-research-community-at-rgu:
The Curious Minds Research Festival was first conceived in 2024.
From the beginning, the ethos was to focus on celebration and curiosity, and to move away from the traditional conference-style format that research events often follow.
Rather than being a platform for individuals to  present their research through a series of talks, the festival team decided to focus on a more informal style with some short talks and panel events, and a wider exhibition – the ‘Exploratorium’.
The concept worked really well, creating a vibrant and exciting atmosphere throughout the venue.
On Thursday, the festival opened with a welcome speech from Professor Steve Olivier, who considered the role of the event in sparking curiosity.
Our Exploratorium then opened, featuring 25 exhibitors across RGU, representative of each school and interdisciplinary research theme .
These stalls exhibited alternative outputs or approaches to research, up-and-coming research areas, and informational stalls.
Many stalls were interdisciplinary and brought teams together under a wider theme or direction, reinforcing the collaborative atmosphere.
Dr Natascha Mueller-Hirth showcasing her research on Resilience and responses to interconnecting crises in informal settings
Daniel Crozier showcasing his PhD research into the concept of ‘splendour’
The Chancellor’s Fellows spoke in ‘flash talks’ in the afternoon to illustrate their research projects, and their contribution to addressing the challenges of climate change, sustainability and global health.
Chancellor’s Fellow Ann-Marie presenting their research on how people interact with museums, archives and libraries
On Thursday afternoon, we gathered to support the sixteen PhD candidates who participated in the world-famous 3 Minute Thesis Competition - and what an event was!
It’s been the busiest 3MT we have ever run at RGU.
The room was buzzing as the audience cheered on the students who masterfully transformed their incredibly elaborate research projects into compelling 3-minute presentations.
The enthusiasm of the community was infectious and the support was heart-warming.
Huge congratulations to all the fantastic PhD students who braved the 3MT challenge - you have set the standard for this year’s entries unprecedentedly high!
And congratulations to this year’s winners: People’s Choice and Runner-up, Sabah Ibrahim with a presentation entitled, ‘Disarming Deadly Superbugs through Computer-aided Drug Design’, and the overall Winner, Abubakar Yunusa, who is representing us nationally with a presentation entitled: ‘Hydrogen in our Pipes: Fuelling the Future Without Blowing It Up’.
We’re keeping our fingers crossed!
From the left: Sabah Ibrahim, Runner-up and People’s Choice Winner, RGU 3MT 2025, Dr Paula Sledzinska who hosted the competition
Abubakar Yunusa, Winner of the RGU 3MT 2025
Finally, the first day concluded with our Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas, featuring David Smith presenting on “Alphas, Betas and Chads” looking at why men join the incel (involuntary celibate) community, and Sheila Erskine’s “Real Food for Thought” examining how the food we eat shapes us.
David Smith presenting  “Alphas, Betas and Chads”
On Friday, the Exploratorium opened at 9am, and this was shortly followed by a talk from our Research Assistant and Fellow (RAF) network, who considered research roles, career paths and the role of RAFs in the delivery of successful projects and building a research community.
The talk considered challenges, skills and value of these roles, sparking interesting discussions following the talk.
Bryan Snelling, Chief Executive Officer of the Aberdeen Science Centre, and RGU’s first Honorary Professor for Public Engagement with Science spoke then, giving his inaugural talk on the value of public engagement.
It was incredibly interesting to hear Bryan’s perspective, including the need to have fun, which was definitely supported by the ASC stall in the Exploratorium!
This was followed by our PGR to Professor (with Pastries) event, which included a conversational discussion, over coffee and cake, between postgraduate research students and professors.
It was an opportunity for PGRs to explore their MOST UNCLEAR DETAILS (MUD) about undertaking research, and how to pursue a research-focused career.
Prof Peter Reid and an esteemed panel of Professors at PGR to Professor (with Pastries) session
After a short break, we moved on to our final event of the festival, the inaugural Curious Minds Research Awards.
We saw our fellow colleagues presented with the beautiful unique awards in categories of Research Hero, Research Mentor of the Year, Doctoral Supervisor of the Year, Engaging the Public with Research, Making an Impact with Research, Interdisciplinary Research Team of the Year and Rising Star.
The winners can be found on Curious Minds page .
Research Awards - unique mosaics designed by Kevin Morris and Helen Love
We saw laughs and cries, hugs and congratulations, and the RGU community coming together to celebrate the winners, the nominees and all colleagues and friends who supported, contributed and participated in RGU research this year.
What a way to close the festival!
Research Awards audience
Like any first-time event, we learned a huge amount through the planning and delivery of the festival.
As a festival team, we would like to say a huge thank you to those who supported the festival (before and during) in the delivery, as exhibitors and presenters, and our attendees.
We really appreciated the tremendous positivity towards the concept and the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful research community of RGU!
Dr Quazi Zaman from Scott Sutherland School of Architecture talks about the Festival experience.
Watch more videos on our YouTube playlist .
We are excited to announce that the festival will be returning in 2026 with the intention of opening to the public.
We will be reflecting on feedback from this year’s inaugural event, our own learnings and starting to plan for the next stages.
Curious Minds will also be expanding its portfolio into a series of public engagement events in autumn 2025, and we look forward to sharing more news on this shortly.
Stay tuned!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8296-a-blooming-success-our-garden-in-the-quad-brings-people-and-wildlife-together:
Our small team was boosted by the help from some of the Occupational Therapy students who helped us get the garden in shape for the summer.
We successfully grew lots of fruits - apples, plums, blueberries, blackcurrants and gooseberries - and planted lots more strawberries.
We laid bark down, donated from chippings gathered by  the Estates team, in the fruit growing area to help suppress the weeds.
Additionally, we grew six bags of potatoes, alongside leeks, lettuce, tomatoes, peas and beans, kale, chard and herbs.
Donations of bedding plants helped to fill the pots both in the garden area and on the veranda.
While we haven’t at this point accurately measured the increase in biodiversity, we have observed the benefits of improving the site.
There are far more insects (including a beautiful dragonfly) feeding off the flowers and increasing numbers of worms in the soil, also evidenced by our resident toad and the variety of birds coming down into the garden.
The grass currently has a lovely spread of native wild flowers which are supporting the bees and other pollinators.
In September, we held a lunchtime event, with lots of free produce from the garden, salads, herbs and recipe ideas to sample, such as apple tart and courgette brownies.
Adriana, a final year Occupational Therapy student, brought some donated woollen jumpers to sell and raised over £100 for local charities!
In April this year, staff from the LGBTQIA+ Action Group and ResLife held a BBQ in the garden which attracted over 50 people.
They hope to make this a regular event, holding the next one during Freshers' Week in September.
We are also planning to have another lunchtime event to give away this year's produce at some point in late August/September.
It has been encouraging to see greater use of the garden over the year by staff and students, and we hope to continue to promote the garden and the benefits of growing and eating fresh food.
Everyone is welcome to participate in our gardening activities or simply enjoy a relaxing green space.
I would particularly like to thank Kirstin and Sugandhi for their continuing hard work, alongside Adriana and Alison from the Occupational Health team, also Bill, Brian and Steve and the rest of the Estates team, Unison, and all our other contributors and supporters.
Here’s to another productive year for our Garden in the Quad.
Learn more about sustainability efforts at RGU:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8248-why-aberdeen-is-the-perfect-home-for-our-business:
For the first few years of my career, I found myself scanning LinkedIn job posts every morning while getting ready, waiting to find the marketing role that truly excited me - however despite all the searching, these opportunities always seemed to exist elsewhere.
But packing my life up and moving to a different city didn’t sit right in my gut, as I knew my heart was in Aberdeen.
So I decided to build my dream career in my hometown instead, and at the age of 25, I co-founded Mission10, a digital marketing agency based in Aberdeen city centre.
Some people may think I’m crazy to choose Aberdeen, but I genuinely believe it was the right decision, and here are a few reasons why…
One of the things I’ve come to appreciate most is how connected Aberdeen feels.
People often describe it as a “village,” and in a professional sense, that really works in your favour.
There’s a genuine sense of closeness - you can quickly find yourself in a room with the right people, whether that’s potential collaborators, mentors or clients.
Starting a business here felt a little less daunting than it might have in a larger, more saturated city.
There’s more space to try things out, to grow organically and to form meaningful relationships.
I think that’s part of what’s helped us grow steadily and sustainably over the years.
Throughout my career, I’ve always been fascinated by the depth of talent and drive in Aberdeen.
There’s a real sense of resilience, innovation and community.
But sometimes, especially in creative industries, it feels like a lot of people look beyond the North East for opportunities, and sadly end up moving away.
We wanted to play a part in changing that.
From the start, our goal was to build a marketing agency that would offer exciting, fulfilling roles in Aberdeen - one with a culture people would genuinely want to be part of.
Over the years, we’ve hired so many brilliant graduates, and many have told us they probably would have moved away if they hadn’t joined Mission10 - and that means so much to me.
It reminds me that building a business here isn’t just about growth or hitting milestones, it’s about nurturing local talent and showing people that you don’t have to leave to build a career you’re proud of.
Some people would maybe prefer to live in a city that’s already got it all figured out, but I think there’s something really special and exciting about being part of a city that’s a “work in progress”.
It means you have the opportunity to shape it and create something that you and your peers truly want.
There’s been a shift in Aberdeen in recent years.
So many people across different industries are coming together to build communities, raise standards and shout about the amazing work happening here.
In the creative sector in particular, it’s energising to see groups forming, meet-ups happening and people joining forces to champion creativity in the North-east.
And anyone can be part of this change, which is the most exciting part.
Being your own boss naturally brings more flexibility into your life - but doing it in Aberdeen has allowed me to design a life that really works for me.
I’m definitely a country girl at heart, and as I sit writing this, I’m looking out my living room window at beautiful sand dunes and the sun setting over the rolling Aberdeenshire countryside.
I feel so content.
I love that I can live in such a peaceful, scenic part of Scotland, yet can get into my office in the city centre in less than 30 minutes.
I love this about Aberdeen.
There’s something about being close to the sea and surrounded by nature that brings a real sense of calm.
Running a business can be intense - but having the balance between city and country life really helps me, especially when things feel really hectic.
We operate a hybrid working model at Mission10, and for me personally, this gives me the best of both worlds.
On office days, I love going for city walks at lunch, usually around Union Terrace Gardens, or heading out for meetings at local coffee shops, such as Mount or Aberdeen Art Gallery.
On home days, I love going out for peaceful lunch time walks down to the beach or across the golf course with my dog Stanley.
Most importantly, I feel very fortunate that I am building a business I love while still being surrounded by my family and friends.
To me, this is the biggest benefit of choosing to stay in Aberdeen, especially now that we’ve started a family.
This enables me to craft the perfect balance between both parts of my life.
Aberdeen has played a huge part in my journey.
It’s where I grew up, where I studied and where I chose to stay and take a risk.
It’s where I’ve built something that now supports an incredible team of people doing work they’re proud of, and I know there’s still so much more to come.
This city has creativity, community and drive, but most importantly?
Opportunity.
It's there for anyone who’s willing to see it.
Steph graduated from RGU with a BA (Hons) Communications with PR.
Mission10 is a digital marketing agency based in Aberdeen.
With a team of 18 specialists across content marketing, digital advertising, SEO, website optimisation, graphic design and HubSpot, they help ambitious companies attract and convert their ideal customers by delivering highly targeted marketing strategies.
UnDiscovered Aberdeen

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8238-abzolutely-aberdeen-undiscovered-aberdeen-by-russell-borthwick:
We are at the forefront of leading the energy transition to a lower carbon world.
We are recognised as one of Europe’s most important centres for life sciences with globally leading health related research.
We are home to food and drink brands and produce that are enjoyed right across the planet.
Did you know that Aberdeen & Aberdeenshire were recently voted the best places to live in the UK in a national poll of 6,000 people and the population of around half a million in the city region enjoys an unrivalled quality of life.
Households in this region have, on average, the highest net disposable income in the country and Aberdeen has been identified as the 'least expensive' city in the UK for first-time buyers to get on the property ladder.
It's also the cheapest city in Scotland to rent.
The city is well connected with frequent direct rail services to Edinburgh, Glasgow, Newcastle, London and other major cities.
And our international airport provides regular connections to London, Manchester, Birmingham, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Dublin and other hubs.
And our internationalism goes both ways.
After centuries of global trade we have an incredibly diverse population and in any restaurant, café or the airport arrivals hall, you’ll hear voices from a myriad of nations.
The Chamber’s latest Investment Tracker tells of £7.2bn of major infrastructure and regeneration projects delivered here since 2017.
And a future pipeline in excess of £30 billion.
Included is the City Centre Masterplan, a multi-million pound programme that has so far delivered Marischal Square, a museum of famous Aberdeen folk at Provost Skene’s House, a refurbished Music Hall, an Art Gallery voted the best building in Scotland and amazing new green spaces at Union Terrace Gardens.
With work underway on a new international food market, streetscaping of Union Street, Castlegate and the transformation of our beach.
There’s always something happening here.
A packed programme covers everything from sport to contemporary art and music to light installations and dance.
Our iconic theatre regularly hosts international touring companies, nationally renowned artists and Scottish and homegrown talent.
And a stroll around the city will reveal our incredible street art collection Nuart - voted in the top six in the world.
We are host to a range of global events such as the BBC Sports Personality of the Year, Tour of Britain cycling and this year we welcome the Tall Ships Race - Europe’s largest free event of 2025 with 400,000 visits expected.
There’s top-class professional golf and Premier League football at Aberdeen FC; our heroes as winners of the 2025 Scottish FA Cup and the only Scottish team to have won two UEFA European trophies.
And our world class events venue P&J Live regularly hosts major international exhibitions, conferences and concerts, holding the record for the largest indoor attendance in Scotland.
And Aberdeen has the lowest crime rate of Scotland’s four largest cities - a purple flag confirming Aberdeen as one of Scotland’s safest nighttime destinations.
With a climate that is warmer than the Scottish average, we have some of the longest summer days - and only half the rainfall of Miami - so there’s plenty of opportunity to get outdoors and explore.
And in the winter of 2024, the Met Office confirms that this region had easily the most sunshine hours in the UK.
Our countryside offers a theatre for activities with some of the world’s best golf courses, beaches, stunning walks and opportunities for skiing, climbing, water sports and cycling.
Where else in the world could you surf in the morning and ski in the afternoon?
(If that’s your thing!)
Not far from the city is the Cairngorms National Park and a stunning coastline part of which was named one of the most iconic landscapes in the world by National Geographic.
We have more castles per acre than anywhere else in the British Isles, with the royal residence of Balmoral on our doorstep.
The ‘favourite place on the planet’ of our late Queen.
The fact that Aberdeen is a great place to live makes it a great place to visit and we are seeing a big growth in tourism with 3.7 million visitors staying overnight in 2024 further boosted by 2.59 million day visits, including a fast growing cruise market with around 100,000 visitors a year expected to call by 2030, with visitors experiencing the region’s quality tourism and hospitality products and experiences.
A small European city region with a big personality, punching well above its weight.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8233-rgu-marks-passing-of-leading-brain-injury-group-figure:
Paul Breen was an expert patient for the group and would regularly take part in student-led clinics.
The former train driver suffered a brain aneurysm in 2010 and spent months at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary (ARI) in rehabilitation.
He was well-known at RGU for his collection of colourful football shirts he would adorn when attending the Brain Injury Group.
Paul was also a leading fundraiser for ARI’s roof garden project, and for this he would be awarded a British Empire Medal (BEM) in 2017.
Paul was also passionate about his beloved Aberdeen FC, and American football as well playing sport with sons Chris and Sean.
Emma McBoyle has paid tribute to Paul following his passing earlier this month.
She said: “For many years, Paul generously gave his time and experience to support our students as an expert patient and regular participant in our student-led clinics.
“Paul was instrumental in the development of our Brain Injury Group , which has been running for nearly two decades.
His dedication, kindness and passion for student learning made a lasting impact.
He was a joy to work with and many of our students will remember him for his thoughtful and inspiring personality.
Paul had a gift for making every person feel seen - he never forgot a name and loved capturing memories through photos.
These photos reflect just some of the meaningful moments Paul shared with our students.
His presence - and his iconic football jerseys - will be greatly missed.
“Our heartfelt condolences go out to Paul's family and friends at this difficult time.”
Paul’s funeral service was held at Aberdeen Crematorium on Friday 23 May.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8231-celebrating-biomedical-science-day-at-spasph:
Biomedical Science Day is all about shining a spotlight on the incredible work of biomedical scientists and inspiring the next generation to explore the wonders of science, something that we are passionate about as a team.
Research shows that introducing children to science from an early age helps them to envision themselves as future scientists, fostering confidence, curiosity, and a lasting interest in STEM, so we are dedicated to sharing the role of biomedical scientists to the wider community.
As part of our celebrations, our team are running some biomedical themed competitions.
We’re inviting primary-aged children to get creative and show us what they think a biomedical scientist looks like!
Our drawing competition, titled ‘At the heART of Healthcare’, is a fun and imaginative way to help young minds connect with the world of science and healthcare.
We’re excited to see the range of colourful lab coats, microscopes, and maybe even a few superhero capes this year!
2024 Entries from P4 pupils in Inshes Primary, Inverness:
2024 winners from Glashieburn Primary, Aberdeen:
We are running a STEM-sational Poster Competition for RGU students enrolled in Biomedical and Applied Biomedical Science courses!
We’re looking for eye-catching, informative posters that shine a spotlight on the vital role of biomedical science in healthcare.
It’s a chance for our students to show off their creativity, raise awareness, and win some amazing science-themed prizes!
Posters will be presented on Biomedical Science Day at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, where Biomedical Science students will be showcasing to the public the amazing work that biomedical scientists do in healthcare.
The stall is free to attend in the Rotunda of the main hospital in ARI on 5th June.
Previous Biomedical Science Day Poster competition winners – Glen Byars, Rhaine Howitt and Aimee Work:
And for our amazing SPASPH staff, we’re mixing things up with a Biomedical Bake Off!
This deliciously creative competition invites staff to bake science-themed cakes that are as educational as they are edible.
Think DNA double helix cupcakes, petri dish cookies, or anatomical layer cakes – the possibilities are endless (and tasty)!
IBMS Best Biomedical Cake 2024 (Valerie Bocker’s Blood Clot cake from the Blood Sciences team at NHS Lothian, Edinburgh) :
We can’t wait to see the incredible talent and enthusiasm from our community as we celebrate the vital role of biomedical science in improving lives.
Stay tuned for photos, winners, and highlights from the day!
You can follow updates using the hashtag #AtTheHeartOfHealthcare.
You can also find SPASPH on Instagram where you will find more Biomedical Science Day content.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8177-we-all-need-to-be-aberdeen-s-local-hero:
As citizens of the North East, what do we already know about Aberdeen and the wider region?
It’s home to Scotland’s third largest city; we’ve got some amazing beaches and some equally amazing countryside; the region is, on the whole, an incredibly safe place to live; there are two major universities; we have some brilliant and independent cafes, restaurants and bars; plus some of the nation’s top golf courses, a historic football club, and the ability to both surf or ski from one day to the next.
We’ve pretty much got it all, and that’s without even putting much thought into it.
UnDiscovered Aberdeen , a campaign launched this Spring by Robert Gordon University (RGU), aims to highlight this.
We want to showcase Aberdeen as a remarkable place to live, work, and study.
And most importantly, we need it to be a combined effort .
We want everyone shouting about just how great the North East is.
At RGU we are fortunate to work at a modern campus that overlooks the River Dee, a genuinely stunning location which wows from season to season.
If you follow downstream you’ll be met with a beautiful river walk, Duthie Park, and then the city centre.
Where next, Greyhope Bay to dolphin spot, a shop at the increasingly busy Union Square, or straight through to Fittie and the numerous thriving seaside street food trucks?
The city centre and beach are going through an exciting regeneration, but we don’t need to wait until then to shout about all of what is great about Aberdeen.
Have you visited the bustling hubs of Thistle Street or Rosemount recently?
Do you make the most of the idyllic city centre green space in our award-winning parks?
Have you ever visited Provost Skene’s House, the oldest surviving town house in Aberdeen, marvelled at Marischal College, the world’s second largest granite building (!), before wandering up to Aberdeen Art Gallery and finally on to the stunningly transformed Union Terrace Gardens?
We’ve not even mentioned grabbing a coffee from Mount and a fine piece from Upperkrust on the way!
Aberdeenshire has an embarrassment of riches that would, and does, impress visitors from across the globe.
From Balmoral to Newburgh, Bennachie to Stonehaven and Royal Deeside to the Cairngorms – the North East is the gem of the country.
Discovered by some, UnDiscovered by most.
There is a reason that cruise ships are now stopping by at the new South Harbour.
We have art, music, sport, history, architecture, a huge and vibrant student community, easy commutes and even our own Doric language.
Thankfully the weather keeps us humble, but even then, it rains way more elsewhere (promise!).
UnDiscovered Aberdeen hopes to amplify other positive campaigns and raise the bar in strengthening the message that the North East is the place to be.
But it needs you, your co-workers, and your family and friends to help us.
Be proud of our region and shout loud about it – both online (#UnDiscoveredAberdeen) and in conversation.
We can all do our part and be our city’s local hero.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8123-the-north-east-in-six-senses-undiscovered-aberdeen-by-chris-foy:
Rather than reel off a list of wonderful sights to experience (which definitely is my job), I will focus on the other senses connected to living at 57 degrees north.
My decision to move here was taken on the weekend of 8 April 2017.
It was day one of the legendary Brewdog AGM at the old convention centre, and the passenger profile on the flight up from Heathrow was a) myself, my wife and our two-year-old son, and b) 127 craft beer punks.
It was an early indication that Aberdeen was not some provincial backwater.
Rather a thriving, well connected centre of many people’s universes.
The first ‘sense’ that we discovered that weekend was one of belonging.
It became clear how international the region is, which suggested to us as an Anglo-Swiss family - and to someone whose job it would be to attract visitors - that the place is incredibly welcoming to folk from around the world.
And to those from south of the border too!
That sense of welcome has not gone away.
We Londoners are not given to acknowledging the millions of others around us while we go about our day-to-day lives.
There was a two-week break from staring at our shoes during the 2012 Olympics when we would smile at strangers on the tube.
But that anomaly soon passed, and we returned to our natural state.
So, it took a while to get used to people from across the North East being friendly towards us, and to reciprocating.
Another sense that Londoners are deprived of is taste when it comes to tap water.
Aberdeenshire water on the other hand, is one for the connoisseur.
I have been known to take two litre bottles of it down south for weekends to avoid the furry limescale of eau-de-Thames .
And then there is the light.
This far north we can really appreciate the seasons.
Daylight that goes on for ever from late April to August means that heading out for a bike ride at 9pm is not peculiar.
OK, it balances out in the winter.
But winter is time to really appreciate our drier climate.
Living in the lee of the mountains, we have clearer skies here in the east.
Perfect for immersion in a star gazing experience, a possible aurora and the sounds of the countryside at night.
Your sound of the region could be the roar of the Pittodrie crowd, the crashing of waves on our beaches.
But the sound that most of our friends’ comment on when they visit our Aberdeenshire home, is silence.
Which leaves the sense of smell.
My love of London does not, alas, extend to its smell.
But take your pick of wonderful aromas in the North East.
Chips frying on the beachfront, pine forests in Upper Deeside.
The cherry blossom that is abundant across Aberdeen in April, or punnets of fresh strawberries in the Mearns.
For many, the yeasty smell of the craft beer revolution will lead them to a brewery in Ellon.
But for me, I’ll settle for the sweet smell of success as we continue to attract more and more visitors to enjoy spending time in the warm embrace of our region.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8038-q-a-with-julia-bryce-for-undiscovered-aberdeen:
Best spot for coffee?
I don’t drink coffee.
I get funny looks when I say that, but I’d send everyone to Cairn Coffee down at the beach.
For somewhere to sit in?
Mount or The Cult of Coffee .
For the best hot chocolate though, visit Fat Batch or Sweet Toots Cakery , which is just up from Cairn Coffee at the beachfront.
Best Sunday roast?
This is hard, but I’d say Number 10 Bar and Restaurant .
I always pick the beef, it’s so tender, but I think the fact you can get pigs in blankets all year round is another reason why it’s the best.
You can’t miss their cauliflower cheese though, No.10’s has parmesan on it.
Best brunch spot?
Parx Café in the West End.
The breakfast burrito is incredible and always goes down well, but stay for lunch and grab the Korean fried chicken, you’ll thank me later.
Bar or pub?
Fierce Bar on Exchequer Row.
I’d usually order a fruity or sour beer, or maybe one of the specials but I hear they are now serving cocktails so I’ll be exploring that menu asap.
Desperate to try?
Sea Salt + Sole has just opened their first sit-in bistro in Dyce so I’m keen to see what it’s all about.
I’m also eager to try out Grape & Grain ’s sister venue, Mediterranean on Thistle Street, oh, and Zera Café at the beach, and the little Georgian place in Aberdeen.
There’s quite a few places on my list…
Best value?
Madame Mews is great value for its price vs portion size.
The food is all freshly made, and the owner Mew Garthley is super sweet.
Maggie’s Grill , while being expensive, is two meals in one.
You will genuinely go home with your lunch for leftovers because the portions are that big.
Order the chicken tenders with corruption sauce, it’s the best.
Best bakery?
Bandit Bakery .
The produce owner Pete and the team create there is outstanding but I’m also loving the new pop-up bakery in Portlethen called Haar Micro Bakery .
Don’t overlook the Vegan Bay Baker ’s doughnuts or butteries either.
Best grab and go?
FreshMex for all the Tex-Mex goodies.
Best lunch?
West End Chocolates for their stellar paninis.
Upperkrust is also good value for money too and the ladies’ banter in the shop makes it worth every penny – there’s also a Tom Hardy cardboard cutout and some Doric sayings on the wall to keep you entertained in the queue.
Drink of choice and where are you having it?
I’d have to say a spicy margarita, or any cocktail really, from Ninety-Nine Bar and Kitchen .
Best takeaway?
I love a Chinese so it’s Fu Kwai near the Lang Stracht for me.
You can’t beat their prices or portion sizes.
Best fine piece spot?
Almondine has some of the best French patisserie in the city.
Pera Palace is excellent for Turkish bakes, and I’ve heard Rosa’s is spectacular for Sicilian treats.
Best date night spot?
Café Bohème or Moonfish Café .
Optimum time for a fly cup?
2PM – that’s tea and biscuit time when I’m working from home.
Buttery or rowie?
It’s a buttery.
What you putting on your buttery?
It needs to be toasted.
But if you haven’t tried it, some cheese and a slice of beef tomato with a sprinkling of quality sea salt.
Delicious.
Somewhere that surprised you?
Newburgh Beach – there are so many more seals than I’d ever imagined.
What’s something you wish everyone knew about Aberdeen?
How much there is to do here and what a brilliant place it is to live.
We have hills, mountains, beaches, coastal paths, parks, lochs, and so much more all on our doorstep.
Where are you going on your day off?
I’m probably going for a long walk, maybe to Loch Muick or up Bennachie, although I do love Dunnottar and Fowelsheugh when the puffins are there.
I’ll always grab something to eat after at a local spot, that’s a non-negotiable.
While studying PR and Communications at Robert Gordon University, Julia started her writing journey in 2010 with a fashion blog which, in 2015, transformed into her award-winning lifestyle blog, Just Julia.
Since then, she’s been on a mission to put local food on the map.
As the first specialist food and drink writer at DC Thomson, Julia quickly became the go-to expert, landing the title of Food & Drink Writer of the Year in 2021 at the Scottish Press Awards.
She even made her Netflix debut on season seven of Somebody Feed Phil and won the title of Scottish Influencer of the Year in 2024.
Now, you can catch her every Sunday from 1-5pm on Original 106, where she keeps everyone entertained with good chat, great music, and, of course, plenty of foodie talk.
Keep up-to-date with Julia online here .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8027-why-aberdeen-undiscovered-aberdeen-by-bob-keiller:
In trying to answer I consider what’s important.
Family, friends, safety.
I love Scotland, I love my hometown of Jedburgh in the Scottish Borders, and I love my home – Aberdeen.
I moved here nearly 40 years ago and have yet to find a better answer to the opening question.
A great place to live, to work, to play and to raise a family.
A city with lots to see and surrounded by glorious Aberdeenshire.
They say that the difference between Brits and Americans is that Brits think that 100 miles is a long way, and Americans think that 100 years is a long time.
Aberdeen is a short way from Central Scotland, London, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Paris and more.
Our history is long, varied and utterly fascinating.
Aberdeen has a focus on energy and the transition to net zero.
We have the Energy Transition Zone (ETZ) and the Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC).
We also have incubators in Life Sciences (The Bio Hub), Food and Drink (The Seed Pod) and Digital Technology (The Tech Hub).
Opportunity North East (ONE) is the local development body led by the private sector – this makes it unique.
This has driven a multi-sectoral regional strategy that has created multiple new businesses and accelerated many others.
This means lots of high-quality, well-paid jobs in a city with low property prices and excellent quality of living.
I was hosting some Houston colleagues at Maryculter House in Aberdeenshire.
It was a Wednesday in June.
We finished a business meeting around 6PM and ventured out onto the lawn overlooking the River Dee.
We were enjoying a cold gin and tonic and we watched players on Peterculter golf course across the river.
A canoeist paddled by.
My American colleague Gerry asked me some questions:
When does it get dark Bob?
- Oh after 10PM, plenty time to finish 18 holes.
How expensive is it to play here?
- Pretty cheap, and there are lots of options.
How long does it take you to get to the office from your home?
- That depends on traffic, sometimes it can take 18 minutes but usually about 12!
One final rhetorical question, why don’t I live here...?
And that’s another glimpse of why I do!
I choose to live here because I can – you might want to think about it too!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/8025-rgu-brain-injury-group-nearly-two-decades-of-transforming-lives-through-rehabilitation-and-care:
The class was established in 2005 by Jennifer Duthie , then Course Lead for Physiotherapy, and Rhona Davidson, Senior Neuro Physiotherapist and Clinical Educator, the initiative was designed to enhance students’ understanding of the complexities surrounding brain injuries while providing valuable support to the local community.
In 2009, students from Applied Sport and Exercise Science (ASES) joined the programme, contributing to the delivery of tailored rehabilitation sessions.
What began as a small initiative with approximately eight participants has grown into a well-established group that now supports around  20 local individuals living with brain injuries.
Held weekly on Fridays at RGU Sport, the group is facilitated by both Physiotherapy and ASES students under the supervision of qualified tutors such as myself from Physiotherapy and Ollie James (ASES).
The sessions focus on creating personalised, gym-based exercise programmes aimed at increasing participants' confidence in exercising to prepare them for exercising independently within their community and local gyms.
Goals vary widely depending on ability but range from improving standing and walking abilities to high-level running and weightlifting, providing students with a varied but real-world experience.
Participants from the Brain Injury Group
A key figure in the group's continued success, has been Rhona Davidson who has remained actively involved in the groups since its inception, supporting students and offering valuable clinical insights and feedback.
Participants are primarily referred through Brain Injury Grampian, a local charitable organisation, as well as healthcare professionals across Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire.
As part of their third-year studies, ASES and Physiotherapy students at RGU undertake teaching modules in Semester 2 where they explore a range of patient groups with complex health conditions.
The RGU Brain Injury Group enables students to apply their learning and gain additional real-life experience.
By working collaboratively, the students conduct initial assessments, set individual goals, and develop personalised programmes that cater to a range of ages and abilities.
This experience requires student to work as  a team collaborating to develop individualised exercise programmes for the clients who attend, as well as hone their leadership and communication skills.
While this initiative provides students with a valued practical learning experience, it also serves to provide members of the local community with valued and health and well-being support which is otherwise not available locally.
The RGU ABI class is just one of the many student-led community clinics offered at RGU supported by National Lottery funding
It’s incredible to see how much the RGU Brain Injury Group has grown and developed since I started my lecturing role at RGU in 2022.
This free, local service is a vital resource for individuals living with brain injuries, particularly at a time when services are stretched and access to community healthcare is limited.
Additionally, the group provides invaluable learning experiences for our students, allowing them to collaborate, develop essential skills, and prepare for their future careers in healthcare.
Some of the participants have said that attending the classes has helped them, with their feedback featured below:
“I've always felt very welcomed in the classes.
The students always work around my needs."
"The students encourage me and give me the confidence to try things.
I've had so much support."
"I feel like I'm giving back to the student community."
"I feel elated.
I love coming to the group.
It gives me great pleasure."
"The group gives me something to look forward to."
"My mental health has improved 100% [since attending the classes]."
"The group has given me the confidence to join my gym."
"I would have never thought that I could have lifted weights or that I could have done exercise like that."
Anyone interested in finding out more about the group can email: ExerciseClassSH@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/7937-aberdeen-boat-race-2025-meet-the-crew:
Ahead of this weekend's 30th Aberdeen Boat Race, get to know the RGU first crew that little better...
The latest Aberdeen Boat Race will take place on Saturday 15 March.
The first crew race and main event will take place at 2:30PM with three other races taking place beforehand: the Universities Sports Presidents Race at 12:50PM, the second crew at 1:05PM, and the alumni race at 1:25PM.
Find out more about the races through the links below.
We hope to see you there!
The first crew will see Mia Paul in as Cox and Mara Quintana Perez as Bow.
In what is a female-dominated race, Laura Stewart is President of the RGU Boat Club and takes up her spot in seventh.
In addition to their hometown and year of study/course, we also asked each member about their sporting inspiration is and their favourite thing about Aberdeen (with varying results)...
Mara Quintana Perez (Bow): Applied Bioscience; Gran Canaria; the beach
Ellis Flett (2): First year Adult and Mental Health Nursing; Aberdeen; Simone Biles; Mount Cafe
Louis Grochla (3): Second year; Glasgow; Muhammad Ali; Aberdeen's architecture
Antonio Fenty (4): First year; Aberdeen; himself; the independent coffee shops
Helen Tintpulver (5): Mississauga, Canda
Sam Edwards (6): Third year; Westhill; himself in 10 years; exploring Aberdeenshire
Laura Stewart (7): Business with marketing; Inverkip; Helen Glover; the beach
Louis Allman (Stroke): Fourth year; Kelso; Stephen Bunting; the food
Mia Paul (Cox): Third year Applied Sport and Exercise Science; Stonehaven; her cousin, John Paul; seeing dolphins at the beach

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/student-experience/7827-sports-coaching-highlights-the-fun-in-fundamental:
BSc (hons) Sport Coaching students from Robert Gordon University (RGU) recently worked with around 3,000 pupils from various Aberdeen primary schools as part of a FUNdamental Activity Day in collaboration with Sport Aberdeen.
Stage 3 and 4 students worked in collaboration with 18 primary schools in November to increase engagement in physical activity, enhance fundamental movement skills, and promote health and wellbeing through playing an array of fun games and activities.
Stage 4 students and class representatives Isla Ramsay and Bradley McCallister said: “This was an incredible opportunity to go into the primary schools in Aberdeen to deliver sessions based on fundamental movements.
These skills are essential to developing confidence in their movement and within themselves.
“We thoroughly enjoyed teaching the pupils about different movement patterns and delivering this in a fun and engaging session which kept everyone involved.
This is hopefully an opportunity that can be continued and improved to both the schools of Aberdeen and the sport students at RGU in the following years”.
Lecturer Dr Andy Hall said the events, which occurred simultaneously within different primary schools, had been a positive experience for students, pupils and primary schools.
He said: “The opportunity for students to work collaboratively across year groups and with external partnerships such as Sport Aberdeen is an excellent development experience, allowing them to implement academic theory within practical settings, while showcasing their high-level coaching skills.
“The chance to support the community within Aberdeen, promote physical activity opportunities, and develop fundamental movement skills such as running, jumping, catching and throwing for primary school pupils through innovative fun activities is an excellent opportunity for all involved.
“These opportunities are not possible without the continued engagement from effective partnerships such as those with Sport Aberdeen and is something we are all looking to continue to grow in the future.
This event has built on work from previous years, demonstrating the need and success of these events for the local community within Aberdeen”.
Sarah Fraser, Lead Active Schools Coordinator at Sport Aberdeen, said: “Following the success of last year’s FUNdamental activity day, we were delighted to work in partnership with RGU to deliver this event again.
“The student’s professionalism and coaching knowledge ensured that young people from our primary schools got the opportunity to experience a fun and engaging day of activities.
We look forward to expanding the offer next year following positive feedback from the primary schools involved.”
RGU continue to work with the local community through partnership agreements, placements and student experience opportunities, aligning with strategic aims around supporting the student experience and developing collaborative partnerships.
The FUNdamental Activity Day was held in schools across Aberdeen on Tuesday 05 November 2024.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/8039-rsa-fellows-gather-for-conference-on-designing-for-society-for-life-and-sustainability:
The event formed part of the RSA’s Initiative ' Design for Life ', and took place on Tuesday 18 March in lecture theatre N242 at RGU.
It centred on three presentations and a sustainability workshop, altogether showcasing international, ethical, and community level expressions of progress and initiatives geared towards contributing to the delivery of our society’s sustainable development goals.
The talks demonstrated that if our sustainable and equitable future will result from today’s reinforced and redesigned multilateralism, this priority now binding the whole of humanity certainly requires effective actions at community and individual level.
The conference and delegates were welcomed by John Clifford, Dean of RGU’s School of Law and Social Sciences and RSA fellow.
Kicking off the proceedings was RSA’s Amy McPherson, who laid the foundational context of the day reminding the audience of the RSA’s missions and initiatives.
Insisting on the forward-looking nature of RSA programs and contributions, this introduction suitably transitioned to the opening keynote which was led by myself, SFHEA, and exploring “The Pact for the Future: Reshaping Decision-Making for Sustainable Development Goals' Delivery.” I explored the UN’s 2024 Pact for the Future offered insight into the UN’s new doctrine and priorities for multilateralism which will give greater focus on certain UN priorities.
This new doctrine comes with a set of actions to turbocharge the UN for delivering on the sustainable development goals and the new ‘Pact for Future Generations’, with a first progress report on the latter set to 2028.
Next, Dr Nigel Dower, emeritus senior lecturer in philosophy at the University of Aberdeen and Chair of the United Nations Association Aberdeen Branch, explored the “Ethical Foundations of Sustainability.” Dr Dower’s ethical and philosophical exploration demonstrated the need for individual progress to understand the moral imperatives of sustainability, urging collective responsibility and ecocentric, more than anthropocentric, ethical awareness as pivotal elements in creating a holistic sustainable future.
In a move to bring theory into practice, Mark Hope, FRSA, presented his keynote on “Small Beautiful Actions Towards Healthy and Happy Communities.” Mark’s emphasis on grassroots initiatives and their cumulative impact resonated deeply with the audience, highlighting the power of community-led transformation and the regenerative impact of individual initiatives on people and communities.
Danielle Dale, FRSA and sustainability consultant, close the series by her transformative workshop titled “Cultivating a Regenerative Mindset for Future-Fit Leadership.” This interactive session drew participants into a dialogue about embracing environmental actions through sustainability awareness, dialogue, and understanding of sense for sustainability delivery paradigms.
Closing the event, Professor Lorna Dawson CBE offered a synthesis of the afternoon’s discussions.
Her generous reflections connected the diverse threads of conversation, specifically emphasizing the need to connect all four lead dimensions discussed throughout the afternoon.
Institutional, ethical, individual, and organisational.
Professor Dawson, in her uniquely generous way, wrapped up the event by choosing to reinforce the afternoon’s messages on a note of hope through poetry inspired from the session.
One of her two poems is reproduced hereafter.
This initiative set a tone of optimism but shared a roll call for proactive engagement.
At times of crisis, not losing track of SDG priorities, understanding how to be better together and organised, gain particular momentum for the planet.
As part of 'Design for Life', this RSA conference offered a convergence of minds aimed at identifying how to better connect to the world and its key priorities.
These call for humans to design today a suitable world for those coming in the future, understanding the accessible language of sustainable values, the sense of commitment, and need for individual and community actions for our planet’s regeneration.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/8026-contribution-of-rgu-research-highlighted-in-berlin:
At an official side event of the Berlin Energy Transition Dialogue 2025, I was invited to showcase Scotland's hydrogen leadership in a presentation funded and supported by the Scottish Government.
The 20 March event highlighted how Scotland's academic innovations can support Germany's industrial decarbonization through clean hydrogen solutions.
The session was opened by Gillian Martin MSP, Minister for Climate Action, who presented Scotland’s strategic policy framework for green hydrogen.
The address highlighted the nation’s vast renewable energy potential and ambitious plans to position hydrogen as a cornerstone of its net-zero transition.
With strong wind, tidal, and wave resources, Scotland aims to become a global leader in sustainable hydrogen production.
I first presented the collective capabilities of Scotland's Energy Technology Partnership (ETP) - a strategic alliance of 14 universities driving hydrogen advancements.
The overview covered:
As part of the Scottish Government's showcase, I then detailed RGU's specific leadership through two flagship projects:
The panel discussion featured RGU's pioneering work on industrial symbiosis, where I presented a Innovate UK-backed Knowledge Transfer Partnership breakthrough: using waste heat to boost electrolysis efficiency.
The Scottish Government-hosted event concluded with strong interest in Scotland-Germany collaboration, positioning RGU as a key partner for:
RGU's participation in this event was made possible through invitation and funding from the Scottish Government as part of its international energy engagement program.
For research collaborations, contact Professor Mamdud Hossain via email: M.Hossain@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7834-learning-about-the-fascinating-and-scary-world-of-incels:
"I'd be lying if I said that I didn't think at least half the board was crazy," Harta  tells me from America.
I can't see him – like other men in my study he's elected to leave his webcam off.
Still, while he's audibly nervous, he also sounds glad to have someone listening.
"The first post I saw said 'if my sister truly cared about my issues, she'd allow me to have sex with her.'" He quickly adds, "So I was turned off by that."
Harta is a former incel who began frequenting their forums in his early 20s.
Short for involuntary celibates, incels are men who believe a combo of their bad genes and modern feminism have left them romantically/sexually destitute.
In short, they consider themselves scientifically unloveable.
They represent one part of the manosphere: a digital ecosystem of men's groups that regard women with a combination of desire and contempt.
As a psychologist, I find inceldom equally fascinating and scary.
It's one of few subcultures built entirely around inferiority.
Many men go years at a time without having sex, though few make it a core part of their identity.
Yet I can almost understand why some do.
As a teenager, I worried everybody was having sex except me and catastrophised being alone for the rest of my life.
Influencers and dating apps likely amplify these concerns, leaving people a swipe away from rejection.
It's what made me want to interview former members to find out why they joined inceldom in the first place - and how we can help others leave.
So I put ads on dedicated ex-incel groups to see who would be willing to speak, and 11 signed up.
At first, I was worried about speaking to other men, no less strangers, about something as personal as their sex lives: would they open up?
Thankfully, it was cathartic for them, marking the first time most had spoken at length about their secret digital lives.
For example, Harta, now closing in on 30, hasn't told his friends or family he was a member for five years and thinks he never will, due to the group's negative reputation.
It was not always like this, though.
The first incel website was founded by a woman.
In 1997, Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project united users from around the world, including men, women, and trans people, to discuss shyness.
However, over time, it stopped being about strength in numbers as they tried to figure out why they weren't having sex.
The men blamed women.
Today, most incels swallow the red pill.
Taking its name from The Matrix, it supposedly means seeing the world for what it really is.
In this case, they argue feminism has overturned a natural sexual economy where the tens slept with each other and so did the sixes and ones.
Now, they claim men are socially/sexually disadvantaged because women date upwards, and only the most masculine can attract them.
They call these men Chads.
Content creator (and alleged sex trafficker) Andrew Tate exploits insecure boys/men wanting to win a rigged game.
For them, it's easy to see why a muscular Bugatti driver telling them how to get girls is aspirational.
However, despite being called an incel in parliament, he represents a different type of online misogyny.
When Tate says guys can make themselves more attractive incels call him a scam artist.
To them, he effortlessly embodies the Chad masculinity they could never emulate, no matter how much work they put in.
While he and his followers position themselves as winners in the dating market, incels are resigned to being the losers.
It is in this shared sense of failure that they bond.
As Aaron, an ex-incel from the UK, tells me "the weird kids must form their own collectives because they have been outcast.
Harta agrees.
As an Indonesian American, he liked that incel communities recognised specific pressures he experienced with dating, including common stereotypes about Asians being effeminate or asexual.
He also felt there were few socially acceptable places to share these concerns without being called entitled so went online.
But while other dating forums gave him a place to vent they left him wanting: "they just didn't fully capture or validate the anger and frustration I felt." Incel spaces accepted him unconditionally and gave him a way to understand his sexual marginalisation.
Surveys suggest over 80% of incels are between eighteen and thirty – a stage of emerging adulthood when people are working out their identity and attitudes to love.
Though one I spoke to joined at just twelve; a shockingly young age to even be thinking about involuntary celibacy.
He had felt ugly as far back as he could remember and saw incel forums as a place to discuss this without being reassured he was fine.
Over time he saw the men in their mid-twenties as teachers who could tell him about things he cared about far more than Maths: how the really world works.
This idea of forbidden knowledge is a big part of the appeal of incel forums.
Incels are more diverse than often thought, with data suggesting only 55% are white; low for a group primarily based in Western Europe and North America.
They tend to come from underprivileged backgrounds, with half living with parents/caregivers and 20% being out of education, employment, or training.
Aaron, tells me “I believed that adage ‘work hard, be a good person and good things will happen.’ [Inceldom] made me realise there are no guarantees.” Incels are also disproportionately likely to face mental health challenges.
Many of them appear to have poor body image and develop fixations with their weight, height, cheekbones or stature.
In addition, up to 75% experience depression or anxiety and 20% report daily suicidal thoughts.
Combined, these data suggest mental health is a major factor in who is most vulnerable to incel ideology.
Especially since many members report short-term benefits.
First, they get a safe space to share things they wouldn’t offline about sexual frustrations and mental health.
Second, incel sites remove their sense of agency; they explain their virginity as something done to them.
Participants welcomed the notion nothing was their fault.
However, gradually the permanency of their positions became overwhelming.
This is called the black pill; when dating is not just difficult but insurmountable.
There is a tension between the often-intimate things incels share with each other and how shallow their relationships are.
Like reverse Top Trumps, they compete to be the most disadvantaged.
In this reversed hierarchy, one participant told me, “The alpha male of the incels is the guy who spent the most years a virgin.” Amidst the race to the bottom, members learn whole new reasons to dislike themselves when others introduce traits like voice, mass or hairline into conversations.
To the extent incels engage with each other’s posts, it is not to challenge their views but to affirm their hopelessness.
Aaron said discussing killing himself made him feel “powerful” and that “instead of being met with 'oh no, please don't do it,’ someone would say 'same.’” It was emotional validation without support.
As well as sharing their views, incel forums let users share articles about attraction.
In a sobering moment, I saw one of my studies, which found women remember things better if they’re said in a deep voice, shared on an incel forum as “proof” their being single was evolution at work.
This made me conscious of how this research may be interpreted.
In a vicious cycle, the constant negativity isolated them further, making them more likely to return to the forums and, therefore, even less motivated.
The worse they felt, the angrier they were, and their posts got more hateful, too, including fantasies about sexual violence and mass murder.
“It might be confusing how giving up and feeling completely powerless will lead somebody to be violent.
But to me it’s not confusing at all” says Henry, a 23-year-old from the USA.
He identified as an incel a year into college after his expectations of getting girls, breezing class, keeping fit and making money gave way to endless rejections, failing exams, a drug problem and what he saw as dead end jobs.
Incel forums gave him a secret world where he could take out his disappointment and resentment on others.
“At a certain point being down on yourself is too painful so you turn it outward” he says.
But over time, his online and offline lives merged and he became increasingly hostile and withdrawn in his personal life.
He recounts how he quit a customer service role in rage because trying made him complicit in his humiliation: “I felt like a eunuch.”
Though misogyny is a central driver, he argues that powerlessness and despair underlie the thankfully few major acts of incel violence.
These include Elliot Rodger, who killed six people then himself, and others who have harassed, attacked, murdered or stalked people.
We do not just need to talk about inceldom to protect young men but also their victims, who are overwhelmingly women.
Fortunately, men leave inceldom all the time, though this does not necessarily mean they are sexually active.
Most I spoke to were still virgins, but transitions like moving to a city, graduating, meeting new friends and gaining financial security made them revaluate their pessimistic outlook.
With Henry, getting a degree-relevant job where he wasn’t going through the motions gave him a feeling of accomplishment and he came to believe things could get better.
For this reason, among others, we must address inequalities in employment, housing, and education, or we risk exacerbating the existential angst for which inceldom provides one damaging response.
The current cost of living crisis may be a radicalising force for young men who have internalised the idea they need to be traditional providers while living at home well into their twenties.
A sea-change in how men’s mental health is discussed could also remove the allure forums have as places to vent.
Likewise, we need a cultural shift in how young people learn about gender relations, consent and online safety.
Though we should hate inceldom as a worldview, we need compassion for those caught within it as the impact could be wider than we realise.
I worry about my students, as many will fear for their children.
While the answers inceldom offers young men are harmful, the questions are very human: What am I doing with my life?
Am I desirable?
Is anybody going to love me?
It’s important that we address these constructively for the good of them and those they might harm.
All of the names featured in this article have been changed.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7598-rgu-success-at-prestigious-annual-cices-event-in-london:
It is a topic that is close to my heart and I am glad that I was able to play a crucial role in shaping the White Paper which is expected to be an evergreen document that will be updated as the industry involves.
The icing on the cake was to see my own student, Campbell Davidson, winning one of the prestigious Robin Jones awards in the category of 'Sustainability and Innovation'.
Overall, it was a rewarding and slightly surreal experience!
Campbell graduated from the BSc (Hons) in Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management course with a First Class Honours in Summer 2024.
I nominated Campbell's dissertation under the category of: Outstanding student/trainee/apprentice who has demonstrated a commitment to promoting, adopting or developing new and innovative ways of working within the profession – for example by adopting innovative working practices which support the uptake of new digital tools or collaboration, or through their dissertation.
His dissertation, titled 'The Changing Role of The Quantity Surveyor in the North Sea Energy Transition’, shed light into the underexplored quantity surveyor's role in the North Sea energy transition where Campbell found that the core skillset of QS remains the same, but job titles change across sectors.
Campbell highlighted the specific challenges of the energy sector to be mainly revolving around contractual and supply chain complexities, where soft skills such as negotiation are considered important.
He also proposed recommendations to those who are looking to transition into the energy sector from construction.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7538-lecturer-makes-antimicrobial-resistance-presentation-to-council-of-europe-committee:
As early as 1945, Sir Alexander Fleming raised the alarm regarding antibiotic overuse when he warned that the “public will demand [the drug and] … then will begin an era … of abuses.” ​
For all those who know me and are familiar with my teaching and research interests, it is not surprising that I was invited to deliver a presentation about all things antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and antimicrobial stewardship (AMS).
This was delivered on the 1st of October, at the 20th meeting of the European Committee on Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Care (CD-P-PH) which is one of the intergovernmental steering committees of the Council of Europe.
The CD-P-PH consists of senior officials in ministries and medicines agencies responsible for health policies.
I was both thrilled and nervous about being provided with such a prestigious platform wanting to represent both RGU and myself in the best way possible while also delivering a meaningful presentation.
The brief indicated that the presentation should last approximately 15-20 minutes and should explain what AMR is, highlight the impact of AMR on health systems as well as on patient outcomes, briefly explain the different measures developed at national and international level to fight AMR and touch upon their main outcomes, and describe the potential role of national and international regulators in supporting the fight against AMR.
Including all this information within such a short space of time was a challenge in itself.
It was fortuitous that the very well-publicised UN General Assembly High-Level Meeting on antimicrobial resistance was also taking place at the end of September.
Consequently, numerous organisations were invited to provide their preferred policy options to tackle AMR, including the World Bank and Medicines without Borders.
This provided me with a great starting point for delivering my message.
I also used the opportunity to highlight the importance of One Health defined by the WHO as “an integrated, unifying approach that aims to sustainably balance and optimize the health of people, animals and ecosystems” and linking the topic of AMR to the UN Sustainability Development Goals to emphasise its wider remit.
As a pharmacist by background and conscious that the focus of the committee is pharmaceutical care, I also included ways in which pharmacists may contribute towards fighting against AMR.
Combining my pharmacy and academic background, I also touched upon the current national initiative to develop and implement a UK-wide AMS competency framework tailored for student pharmacists and driven by NAPEG  (National Antimicrobial Stewardship Pharmacy Education Group) of which I am a founding member and current professional secretary.
Feedback was very positive, and I am currently exploring ways of continued contribution and collaboration with this committee.
I am passionate about this topic since I feel that whether we are healthcare professionals or not, there is a role for each of us to contribute to slow resistance and cut inappropriate and unnecessary use of antibiotics.
Having read this short review, you might be tempted to become an antibiotic guardian; further information is available at: https://antibioticguardian.com/

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7451-welcome-to-the-latest-rgu-research-magazine:
I took over as Dean of the Graduate School a year ago and continue to be impressed and excited by the research taking place throughout the University at postgraduate research level.
The Graduate School was recognised for its performance in the areas of Research Culture and Research Skills within both the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) of 2022/23 and the internal PRES of 2023/24.
It was clear from both surveys that the implementation of a single Graduate School, coupled with close liaison with academic Schools, the formal launch of the Researcher Development Programme, and the work undertaken to enhance the research culture within RGU, has significantly improved research students’ perceptions of their study experience.
Our aim is to continue to work with the wider University research community to contribute to enhancing research culture in the wider University and ensuring that doctoral students are beneficiaries and contributors to this culture.
The doctoral research celebrated in this issue of the Research Magazine demonstrates the interdisciplinary and wide-ranging nature of research undertaken at RGU.
It also shows the potential for real-world impact of these projects, which range from contributions to the global energy industry, interventions into the public conversation surrounding important issues such as the right to die, the reimagining of urban spaces, and the use of technology to support future change in the way we live our lives and support those who are unwell.
The magazine also introduces the 13 projects that were selected for funding from the interdisciplinary Catalyst fund, which underpins RGU’s Research Strategy and supports projects that align with the University’s high-level themes.
Again, the variety of projects that achieved funding demonstrates the breadth of ongoing research at the University.
A key strength of these projects is the collaboration across disciplines and between early career researchers and those at a more advanced stage of their career.
The magazine also reports on the three projects that achieved funding from the Scottish Funding Council through the International Science Partnership Fund in December 2023.
These projects demonstrate interdisciplinary collaboration on a global scale, with project partners in Kenya and Sri Lanka.
This is an extract from the opening of the latest Research Magazine.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7442-scottish-psychology-conference-a-resounding-success:
It was an honour and a privilege to organise the British Psychological Society (BPS) Scottish Branch Postgraduate Conference!
I was pretty nervous about organising it, but careful planning and a dedicated team turned our vision into a reality.
The initial worry that no one would come quickly faded as the delegates poured in from all over Scotland.
The buzz and enthusiasm was brilliant as the students picked up their BPS goody bags.
I met many new faces and finally connected in person with individuals I had known online for months, all of us part of the vibrant Psychology community in Scotland.
Congratulations to our talented student presenters.
Their enthusiasm and willingness to share their work was commendable.
As stated in my opening remarks, “you don’t have to be great to start, but you do have to start to be great”.
For many, this was the start of their academic journey and an opportunity to share their work in a friendly and supportive environment.
The diversity and quality of research presented were exceptional and the day was filled with insightful talks, collaboration, discussion and networking.
The future of Psychology is indeed bright.
We were thrilled to have Professor Rhona Flin deliver an inspiring and insightful keynote on safety at the sharp end, and Nara Morrison wrapped things up with a fascinating talk on imposter syndrome.
Their insights really hit home for many of us.
Their expertise added immense value to the conference, and we were very grateful for their participation.
Hosting this event on our beautiful riverside campus was a delight – especially with the sun shining!
It was a great opportunity to showcase what Robert Gordon University has to offer and to put RGU on the BPS map.
The positive feedback I received afterwards was overwhelming, but behind every successful event is a hardworking team.
I’m immensely grateful to the Psychology Team at RGU for their time, expertise and energy.
Special thanks also to Professor Sarah Pedersen and Dr Sarah Sivers for their support on the day.
Thank you to everyone who participated and supported the BPS Scottish Branch Postgraduate Conference.
Your enthusiasm and dedication made it an unforgettable experience.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/impactful-research/7352-geothermal-cooling-system-installed-to-cool-kenyan-low-income-housing:
Prof.
Mamdud Hossain from the School of Engineering designed the underground piping systems and supervised the installation, while Prof.
Eyad Elyan from the School of Computing installed activity trackers and temperature sensors to develop AI based predictive model.
This project , which is being funded by the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) and the Global Challenges Research Fund with a grant of almost £35,000, is focused on the installation of a cooling system which involves a series of underground pipes bringing cooler air from under the ground into peoples’ homes.
Other members of the multidisciplinary teams include Prof.
Gokay Deveci from Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Dr.
Katherine Burgess, School of Health Sciences carried out a field visit in March and selected homes for installing the geothermal system.
Work on the project began in January.
Researchers from RGU are investigating the effects of installing this system on a variety of measures of heat stress and wellbeing using fitness trackers which will include activity levels, heart rate, skin temperature and quality of sleep.
Furthermore, they will be asked to complete a questionnaire about heat stress called the Heat Strain Score Index (HSSI) and the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale.
The geothermal cooling system has been installed in six homes during the visit in July and was facilitated by the local collaborator Dr Mark Okowa from Toma Mboya University, Homa Bay, Kenya.
Following the visit, Prof Stephen Vertigans said: “It was a very successful trip, following the field visit in March, seeing the geothermal cooling systems installed in the homes.
Working with local people was particularly rewarding to hopefully deliver together to improve conditions for participants living in marginalised spaces and to improve household well-being.”
Mamdud Hossain said: “I am a theoretical researcher, and this is the first time, my theoretical design has been put into real-world problem solving and I was very pleased to witness installation under my supervision”.
Eyad Elyan said: “ This is the best project I have ever been involved with and meeting the local participants was a joyful experience”,
RGU’s research is focused on making a positive impact on the world by applying collaborative interdisciplinary research expertise to improve quality of life, deliver innovative solutions for business and industry, and contribute towards global sustainability.
The University’s research strategy is focused on growing the quality and impact of its research excellence around five key themes - inclusive and creative societies; the environment, energy, and sustainability; health and wellbeing; living in a digital world and pedagogical research.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/8230-cycling-to-a-greener-future-my-rgu-commuting-story:
Before discovering these events, my commute was a struggle.
While driving was convenient, the stress of traffic, the pressure of driving on busy roads, and the rising cost of fuel weighed heavily on me.
I knew there had to be a better way, but I was not sure where to start.
When I learned about RGU's cycling events, I decided to give them a try.
These events provided an excellent opportunity to purchase a reliable second-hand bike on campus, offered hands-on support, practical advice, and – most importantly – the confidence I needed to start cycling to the University regularly.
The first event I joined—a beginner-friendly workshop called Love My Bike Workshop—taught me invaluable practical skills, such as bike maintenance.
I learned how to clean and maintain the bike chain, fix a flat tire, adjust my bike seat, and fine-tune my brakes—skills I had always been interested in learning but never had the chance to explore.
Through a further one-to-one training session on guided rides, I was able to overcome the barriers that had previously held me back—particularly concerns around road safety and how to get on and off the bike properly.
This session was tailored to my needs, making me feel supported and empowered every step of the way.
As a result of attending these events, I now cycle to RGU more frequently.
This shift has positively impacted both my physical wellbeing and my daily routine.
I arrive at work feeling energized and accomplished, knowing I’ve made a small but meaningful contribution to reducing my carbon footprint.
Importantly, this experience has shown me that with the right support, cycling is not only a viable alternative to driving but also an enjoyable and rewarding one.
If RGU continues to expand these initiatives, I believe more people will be encouraged to make the shift.
My story is proof that small steps, backed by the right resources, can pedal us toward a greener, healthier future.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/8121-from-rgu-to-entrepreneurship-empowering-africa-through-innovation:
Studying in the UK had always been a dream of mine.
Back in Ghana, I had completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Computer Science and was at a crossroads—should I pursue a Bachelor of Science degree locally or take a bold leap toward a master’s degree?
At the time, it was rare for someone with an HND to go straight into a master’s programme.
However, thanks to my extensive experience, particularly in entrepreneurship, I had faith that I could take on this challenge.
Robert Gordon University (RGU) offered me a conditional admission to study IT for Oil and Gas.
I fulfilled the requirements, and soon, I found myself in the UK, embarking on a life-changing academic journey.
The challenges were real—meeting admission conditions and securing funding were not easy.
However, I remained persistent, and once I arrived in Aberdeen, the only major adjustment I had to make was getting used to the cold weather!
Coming from an educational background where access to modern learning facilities were limited, RGU felt like a whole new world to me.
The well-equipped computer labs, world-class library, and welcoming faculty made my experience truly enriching.
Beyond academics, RGU had a vibrant international community.
Meeting students from diverse backgrounds expanded my worldview, and I built friendships that continue to this day.
Aberdeen itself was a fantastic city—safe, easy to navigate, and full of opportunities for students to grow both personally and professionally.
Studying at RGU shaped me in ways I hadn’t anticipated.
It taught me independence, a sense of urgency, and the ability to adapt quickly to new environments.
Beyond my studies, I gained valuable life skills that have been instrumental in my journey.
When I returned to Ghana, I resumed my previous role, though it took about five months for my employer to reintegrate me.
In that time, my mind was already buzzing with business ideas.
My time in the UK had exposed me to global best practices in business and technology, and I was determined to bring those insights home.
I knew entrepreneurship would be the path that allowed me to create the most impact, and I was ready to take my ventures to the next level.
Starting a career fresh out of university can be overwhelming.
The transition from academia to the workplace comes with challenges—navigating office politics, understanding your role, and positioning yourself for growth.
That’s why mentorship is crucial.
Through my initiative, Africa Street MBA , I provide mentorship to young graduates, helping them navigate these challenges successfully.
I have seen first-hand how the right guidance can make a difference in someone's career, and I am passionate about supporting the next generation of African leaders.
Entrepreneurship, for me, is about more than just profit—it’s about impact.
I strongly believe in using business as a tool to empower people economically and improve lives.
That’s why every venture I’m involved in aligns with my company’s mantra: “Serving the world sustainably.” Whether it’s through job creation, skill development, or social initiatives, my goal is to drive positive change in society.
One of my proudest initiatives is Africa Street MBA (AfSMBA) , a platform dedicated to supporting start-ups and small businesses in Africa.
Implemented by my consulting and investment firm, DONE BY US, and supported by the KGL Foundation, AfSMBA provides training, coaching, mentorship, business development services, and funding opportunities.
In 2023 alone, we trained over 5,000 young people remotely and provided direct mentorship to 655 youth across Ghana.
In 2024, our reach expanded further, training over 7,000 individuals and equipping unemployed young women with employability skills through paid internships.
Our vision for the future is even bigger.
We are expanding into other African countries, launching a start-up guide book in braille and sign language formats, and continuing to support even more aspiring entrepreneurs.
I am deeply grateful to the British Council Study UK Awards for recognizing my work with the Business and Innovation Award.
It is a humbling experience to see Africa Street MBA making a tangible difference in people’s lives.
This success is not mine alone—it is the result of God’s grace, the real need AfSMBA addresses, and the dedication of the incredible team that brings our vision to life.
For alumni in Ghana and beyond, there are plenty of opportunities to support Africa Street MBA.
We welcome volunteers—whether through mentorship, training sessions, or even donating business-related books to our beneficiaries.
We also invite alumni who want to introduce AfSMBA to their own countries to partner with us.
Together, we can drive meaningful change across Africa.
My journey from RGU to entrepreneurship has been filled with challenges, learning, and incredible opportunities.
I remain committed to using my experiences to empower others and build a better future for Africa.
The road ahead is bright, and I’m excited for what’s to come!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/8113-honouring-the-past-inspiring-the-future-my-journey-with-the-tall-ships-makers-programme:
Hi, I’m Ben, Course Leader for Product, Ceramics and Jewellery at Gray’s School of Art and an independent Product Designer.
Being selected as one of the five makers for the Tall Ships Makers Programme has been a welcome opportunity to push my practice into new territories.
The chance to explore Aberdeen’s rich shipbuilding heritage while collaborating with local industries has been both inspiring and rewarding.
Having lived in Aberdeen for over a decade, I’ve developed a strong appreciation for the city’s industrial history and this project was an opportunity to take a deeper dive.
I was immediately drawn to the tea clippers—an incredible period in maritime history that began in the 1840s and lasted only a few decades before steam power took over.
These ships weren’t just fast; they were feats of craftsmanship and engineering, racing to bring the first tea harvest from China to London.
Of all these vessels, the Thermopylae, built in Aberdeen, stands out as a symbol of innovation and speed.
It remains the fastest sail ship to date, and when I imagined pirate ships as a child, it was the Thermopylae’s towering sails and intricate wooden craftsmanship that came to mind.
This connection to the Thermopylae became a driving force behind my project.
The inspiration for my Carlin Collection stemmed from this deep respect for Aberdeen’s shipbuilding prowess.
I wanted the furniture to capture the essence of the tea clippers—their elegance, speed, and experimental spirit—while celebrating the craftsmanship and materials that defined this era.
My goal was to create a range that:
To achieve this, I collaborated with incredible local manufacturers in the North East.
Highland Heritage Woods provided locally sourced elm from Seaton Park, while Reekie Steeltec offered end-to-end services for metalwork, including laser cutting, folding, and powder coating.
The elm was all CNC machined right here on campus at RGU.
Their expertise was instrumental in bringing my vision to life.
As a designer who thrives on blending traditional craftsmanship with cutting-edge digital tools, this project was the perfect playground for experimentation.
I embraced Gravity Sketch, a virtual reality 3D modelling tool, allowing me to model at a 1:1 scale and explore nearly 100 design variations before landing on a direction that captured my vision.
I meticulously refined the concept through countless 3D-printed iterations at 1:4 scale and rough 1:1 prototypes to test comfort and functionality.
The process echoed the experimental spirit of the Thermopylae itself.
During its time, the ship was considered “experimental” due to its pioneering composite use of wood and metal.
While “experimental” was met with hesitation then, I chose to wear this term as a badge of honour throughout the project, embracing innovation at every step.
The Tall Ships Makers Programme has been a powerful reminder that embracing discomfort and uncertainty is where the most meaningful growth happens.
Pushing boundaries—whether through material choices, digital tools, or collaboration—has reaffirmed my belief that innovation happens at the intersection of tradition and technology.
Moving forward, I’m eager to stay connected with the Tall Ships as they set sail for Aberdeen as well as explore opportunities for Gray’s School of Art students to engage with this rich heritage.
There’s an incredible opportunity to involve emerging designers in projects that celebrate Aberdeen’s past while innovating for the future.
The Carlin Collection is a celebration of craftsmanship, local industry, and a deep-rooted connection to Aberdeen’s maritime legacy.
I’m incredibly proud of what this project has achieved, and I’m excited to see how the spirit of the Thermopylae continues to inspire future makers.
The Tall Ships Races is coming back to Aberdeen for the first time since 1997 between 19-22 July 2025 for what is set out to be Europe's largest free family event.
We would love to see you there!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/8112-meet-nancy-on-world-earth-day:
Hi there!
My name is Nancy Kennils and I was recently appointed as RGU’s Sustainability Manager.
In my role I am actively involved in The Sustainability Group, driving sustainability across all areas of our business from teaching and research to innovation and our campus operations.
I will be coordinating our annual sustainability report, our league table entries, alongside developing our policies and practices within Estates.
I am enthusiastic about leading environmentally impactful practices and am delighted to join a team who are passionate about making a positive difference in our society and the wider world.
My background is quite varied as I’ve been very fortunate to have a career that spans not only industries but also continents.
I have come to learn how fabulous but also fragile our world is and how even small changes can have incredible impacts around the globe.
Having previously worked in countries across Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, I have seen first-hand the impacts of integrating sustainable practices into culture.
Prior to RGU, I worked for the Department for Work and Pensions, coaching people to return to work.
This experience was eye-opening and emphasised how having a moral purpose with action positively impacts your personal wellbeing.
Similarly, one of the most satisfying parts of my role is doing something I really care about.
As RGU’s Sustainability Manager, I lead a team that strives to improve active travel options to campus reducing our commuter emissions, develop biodiversity across the RGU estate ensuring we act responsibly in the maintenance and development our future, and improve energy use and efficiency across our estate.
We also support and encourage all our departments in aligning their behaviours and actions to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Learning about and promoting RGU’s ongoing efforts to reduce our negative environmental impacts and contribute to a fair and equal society has been really exciting.
Projects such as the restoration of Waterside Farm not only cement our commitment to improving biodiversity but also provide an asset in forming partnerships and research opportunities across the University.
I am incredibly keen to get to know and work with more of the RGU community to drive environmental momentum.
If you would like to learn about sustainability at RGU, volunteer at Waterside Farm or talk about how we can support each other to drive positive change and inspire those around us, please get in touch with me at n.kennils@rgu.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/7922-the-rgu-alumnus-who-built-a-new-uk-specialist-bank:
In March 2017, I answered a call to my mobile phone and a simple question, “how about we start that bank we’ve been talking about?”
There had been conversations about the need for a new bank, particularly one serving property developers and landlords in the northern regions of England.
Following the financial crisis in 2008, property professionals felt that the big banks had withdrawn into London and the Southeast leaving many in the regions without access to finance for their projects.
This financial vacuum was initially filled by new types of lenders including peer-to-peer, crowdsourcing and non-bank lenders, though finance from these firms was typically provided at higher interest rates.
To meet the level of demand, at rates that would make property projects profitable, required a bank.
On 29 August 2017, we met with the New Bank Start-up Unit at the Bank of England and after quite a grilling of “why do you want to be a bank?”, were invited into the application process.
There are three stages to the new bank application process: Pre-Application, Application and Mobilisation.
The initial meeting was the start of the Pre-Application stage, and following a successful Application stage, GB Bank was granted its banking licence on 22 October 2021.
This however was ‘Authorisation with Restrictions’, the bank was limited to only £50,000 of customer deposits, enough to test and validate its systems and processes through the final stage of Mobilisation.
On 16 August 2022, GB Bank exited the application process as a fully operational bank, launching to retail customers and commercial borrowers alike.
The culmination of 5 years' work.
In the early years of the bank, my focus was on building out the technology by leveraging the billions invested in cloud-based financial technology (fintech).
In December 2021, I stepped into the CEO role to steer the bank through Mobilisation and launch, straight into significant economic headwinds.
At that time, the conflict in Ukraine had been ongoing for 6 months, we found ourselves in a cost-of-living crisis, with rising energy costs, rising inflation, rising interest rates and in the construction industry, difficulties in the supply chain sourcing building supplies and materials such as bricks, ceramics and glass.
An immediate change in the bank’s business strategy was required, bringing forward commercial products and savings accounts that were planned for later years, building and launching each in a matter of weeks.
Adding to the pressure was the need for capital to grow the business.
In January 2023, we engaged with several private equity firms to raise investment.
By the end of February, we had secured a non-binding offer for tens of millions of pounds, however global events would impact us once again.
In America, Silicon Valley Bank and others failed.
In Europe, Credit Suisse failed.
Banks were suddenly viewed as a much greater investment risk, and less of an opportunity.
The offer of funding was withdrawn.
Weathering the storm, we had a good first full year of trading achieving £3M of income.
Maintaining the belief that funding would come, always finding a way, we completed an £85M capital raise in May 2024 to secure the financial future of the bank.
Having successfully built, launched and secured the future, I felt it was then the right time to end my own GB Bank story, stepping down as CEO and leaving the business in November 2024, proud of the team and what had been achieved against all odds.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/7894-the-international-cartoonist-at-gray-s:
His comedic and inventive drawings have led to two pieces of his work being recently published in The New Cartoonist , a new international magazine…
I am a Technical Services Officer running the West workshop and helping students with stretcher construction, sculpture and large-scale fabrication.
I run workshops for first and second year Fine Art students and give advice on how to progress with their projects.
I was always a huge fan of a cartoonist called Gary Larson, who was an American cartoonist.
I like the simplicity of cartoons but also how it can evoke a strong message and simplify hugely complex issues.
It can range from a simple line drawing to a complex illustration.
The power in that it has over authority.
How it can ridicule it.
Within a moment, politicians, multinationals and other forces of power are put in the spotlight.
I have been cartooning for about five years trying to improve my skills to eventually get a submission into one of the main publications like Private eye or The Spectator.
The New Cartoonist is a recent publication created by some of the top cartoonists in the country.
They are resident cartoonist for papers such as the Guardian and the Mirror newspapers.
My cartoons are now displayed next to them.
It just feels very surreal to look at my sketchbook then seeing it in publication next to professional cartoonists that I’ve been so envious of for so long.
The biggest benefit of cartooning is it allows me to explain ideas more clearly to the students through my sketching.
The memory muscle that you gain from drawing daily gives you a lot more confidence in expressing your ideas.
I usually keep my cartooning to myself, even not using my real name.
I didn’t think I was good enough because I am self-taught.
I do need to get Kato Tarantino out there and promote him though - if I want to be famous!
Visit @kato_tarantino on Instagram for more.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/7889-eva-shares-her-unique-journey-from-patient-to-diagnostic-radiography-lecturer:
Eva was attracted to Diagnostic Radiography from a very young age due to being on the other side of the scanner as a patient.
Eva was born with a congenital condition called Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip (DDH) whereby her right hip socket did not form, meaning her hip continuously dislocated.
She attended the radiography department from birth until adulthood to diagnose and monitor her condition, before and during several surgeries beginning at just one years old, until her most recent operation at the end of last year.
Regular appointments at the x-ray, ultrasound and MRI department caused her to become curious on how the technology and equipment worked.
Eva went on and completed work experience in the Golden Jubilee National Hospital in 2012, here, for the first time, she began to appreciate how patient centred the profession was.
Radiographers must work incredibly closely with patients and relate to each service user on an individual basis to build trust and rapport ahead of any scans.
The technical and personal elements to the job aligned with Eva’s core values and academic interests, this encouraged her to attend Glasgow Caledonia University from 2015-19.
Despite her own patient experience being a driver in pursuing a career in Diagnostic Radiography, Eva would recommend the profession to anyone looking to explore an innovative, vast and evolving career.
Eva’s favourite part of the job is that every day is different, even your whole career.
Day to day, Clinical Diagnostic Radiographers work with all patient types, imaging modalities in locations throughout the hospital (A&E, ICU, wards, operating theatre, clinics).
But from a broader lifelong career perspective, opportunities are endless - with roles extending far beyond the clinical environment.
Diagnostic Radiographers can work in veterinary settings, research, forensics, sales, education, offshore and for the armed forces.
This variety and breadth of career opportunities makes diagnostic radiography a fantastic option for people from all walks of life.
Eva embarked on a career in education when she stated to work at RGU in July 2023.
Eva shared, 'The state-of-the-art campus at Garthdee offered the perfect balance of cutting-edge clinical technology nestled in a remote and rural setting which has offered much needed peace and tranquillity on busy and stressful days!
The flexible working model at RGU has also allowed me to maintain a clinical role whilst teaching, ensuring my practice is kept relevant and students are educated with the most up to date protocols in mind.'
RGU has also facilitated Eva’s further education, allowing her to achieve post graduate qualifications in research as well as her Advanced HE Fellowship, and practical skills such as Basic Life Support (BLS) Cascade Training.
You can find out more about the Diagnostic Radiography course on our website.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/our-people/7886-gray-s-school-of-art-alumna-shares-her-real-time-heartbeat-at-spectra-2025:
I feel touched to have been invited to participate in The Matter of the Heart , a participatory artwork that brings together 65 different heartbeats, connecting our community through a shared pulse.
This project is about people—the heart of the North East that makes Aberdeen what it is.
It feels special to come together in this way, especially considering the deep symbolism of the heart.
I imagine the work will affect each person differently, and already, I find myself reflecting on the significance of this collective experience.
As a Creative Development Co-ordinator at Gray’s, I lead Engage , a collaborative initiative between Gray’s School of Art , Robert Gordon University and Look Again Aberdeen.
In my role, I work  with local, creative practitioners to design and deliver a variety of art and design workshops.
Currently, the programme includes Art Weekenders, Evening Workshops and A Week in the Life of Art School.
We continually develop the programme in response to public feedback, ensuring it remains both relevant and impactful.
Engage offers a platform for creative exploration and has already begun to foster a strong community engagement, inviting participation from a diverse range of individuals, including local practitioners, students, and the wider public.
Through collaboration, I witness first-hand the benefits of working together—encouraging personal growth, fostering a sense of unity, and supporting skills development.
These shared experiences strengthen our creative community and create lasting connections across all levels of engagement.
On Saturday night, it was a unique experience to witness the collective heartbeats of Aberdonians resonating throughout the benches and gardens of Union Terrace Gardens, somewhat hugging and embracing the space as it enveloped the activity.
My own heartbeat, pulsing in real time from a distance over the course of four days, became part of this collective rhythm.
Friends and colleagues sent me photos of a 3D cube featuring my name, alongside two sentences describing what Aberdeen means to me, with the lighting reflecting my live heartbeat—each flicker a direct representation of my heart’s rhythm.
I would often respond to each photo of my heartbeat with a recording of my own, showing my heartbeat pulsing remotely—an experience that felt both surreal and deeply connective.
Artists Anna West and Davi Callanan, the duo behind idontloveyouanymore, created a powerful and distinctive way of bringing people together.
Being part of this experience will undoubtedly influence and inspire my creative practice in the future.
Creatives are a vital part of our community—they help us appreciate what we have, see the world around us in new ways and inspire us to imagine what life could be like.
The work created for Northern Lights and Spectra highlights this, not only by bringing our local community together but also creating a chance for people from all over the world to connect.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7911-taster-sessions-at-scotts-provide-industry-expert-insight:
This event underscored the importance of academia-industry collaboration in promoting careers in Quantity Surveying .
Industry professionals and proud graduates of our school, including Sam Munro MRICS and Christopher Breen from Turner & Townsend , Beth Ironside from McLeod + Aitken , and Cieran Hunter from Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks , all shared their insights and experiences and what it is like to be a QS.
Their diverse roles showcased the versatility and numerous career paths available in this field.
The session featured hands-on activities and engaging talks, providing students with a practical understanding of quantity surveying.
We concluded with a lively Q&A session, addressing students' questions and offering valuable information.
The kids left enthused and excited about careers in Quantity Surveying and the feedback so far is overwhelming!
Given the success of this session, we are excited to announce that this will be a recurring event.
Our next taster session is planned for May, in collaboration with RICS .
Stay tuned for more details.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7883-building-the-future-for-local-youngsters:
The team from Scott’s at RGU was one of ten providers drawn from across the construction industry, practice, and education to provide an engaging challenge for competitors.
The school presented an activity to design a neighbourhood of a future sustainable city, with each of the final eight finalist schools undertaking in turn.
The event was run by staff and students from Scott’s.
As a collective, they were all genuinely impressed by the level of creativity and teamwork on display from the youngsters involved.
The activity provided hands-on experience and insights for the young minds in a bid to broaden their horizons and showcase a possible future.
Neil Lamb, Associate Dean, Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment, commented on the day's success: "Engaging with young minds and showcasing the diverse opportunities within our field is always a rewarding experience.
“The enthusiasm and curiosity displayed by the students on the day reaffirmed the importance of such events in shaping the future of architecture and construction."
Contribution in the 'Build Your Future' event underscores RGU's commitment to community engagement and fostering the next generation of construction professionals.
By collaborating with local schools, the University aims to inspire students to consider careers in this dynamic and impactful industry.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7824-scott-s-host-team-from-royal-danish-academy:
Travelling over from Denmark, they are participating in reviews of current student work that focuses on the development of site-specific, technological, and artistic understanding of architecture in response to present and future global challenges, including those defined as UN Global Goals.
Each year the Academy’s Architecture and Extreme Environments programme chooses a location around the world to carry out their project and this year they have chosen Scotland.
The students are spending the month living in Scotland and working in context to develop site-specific projects.
Neil Lamb, Associate Dean for Economic Social and Cultural Development (ESCD) at Scott’s said: “It has been a real pleasure hosting the staff and students here at RGU and participating in the reviews.
It has been really interesting to see such a broad range of new and exciting ideas which have helped to invigorate our thinking about the future challenges facing all parts of the planet.”
David Garcia, Associate Professor and Master Programme Director of Architecture and Extreme Environments, said: “From Copenhagen, 28 students from the Royal Danish Academy Architecture and Extreme Environments programme have built and transported prototypes to Scotland to test alternative sustainable solutions for architecture during a month-long stay.
We thank the support of RGU students and academics for their invaluable feedback.”
Karen Anderson, Visiting Professor and RIAS President, said: “Architecture students from the Royal Danish Academy’s Architecture and Extreme Environments programme have been working in Scotland and liaising with students and staff from the Master of Architecture course at The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment .
“We have had an opportunity to review their amazing material and energy prototypes designed and built in response to our Scottish climate and resources challenges and opportunities.
We have also heard and discussed their preliminary thesis proposals for architectural interventions focussed mainly on Aberdeen.
“This was a fabulous opportunity for students and staff from our two schools to reflect on appropriate approaches to architecture and design in the Anthropocene.
We are looking forward to seeing the work develop and hopefully even to visit Copenhagen.”

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7813-rgu-academic-chairs-conference-to-explore-a-migrants-journey:
In a globalising world challenged by displacement, migration, and spatial and social disorder, including the fragility of shelters and disruptive societies, intellectual communities must connect to deal with these global problems.
The subject of border urbanism reminds us of the current condition of war and aggression across the world and the knock-on effects that this has on populations that cause them to be displaced and forced to migrate, often against their will.
On a global scale, migrant emergencies have reached a level of intensity that is as alarming as the climate emergency.
They present various trajectories of journeys and drivers.
The urban and human geography of the displaced people, which is not easy to comprehend, is a pressing issue.
The act of setting foot wherever they find safety and shelter, away from threats, often leads to permanent displacement, tearing apart generations of familiar places, cultures, and means of livelihood.
This urgent situation underscores the importance of the BURC conference.
The fourth BURC conference will bring together architects, urbanists, and social scientists from across the globe to analyse and explain international migration and reflect on the particular economic arrangements, social institutions, technology, demography, and politics surrounding migration.
It will build on the success of the inaugural conference held at RGU in 2018 and later at Malaga University in 2018.
The 4th BURC conference will centre around four themes, which include:
We are glad to announce that outstanding researchers and ex-public service personnel have recently joined the global initiative BURC, reinforcing its current research activities and future planned research funding applications.
Amongst them is David Neal, who served as the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration from March 2021 until February 2024.
He led the Royal Military Police through significant reforms, including the Service Justice System Review.
From 2015 to 2016, he was the senior Military Police and Gendarmerie officer in NATO’s Allied Rapid Reaction Corps.
In addition, Dr Peter Peter William Walsh, Senior Researcher at the Migration Observatory, University of Oxford, has joined BURC to strengthen the upcoming research applications and as a keynote speaker.
We are also pleased to see new members joining BURC to strengthen this global collaboration in research applications and future conferences.
Eminent Prof.
of Architecture and Urbanism.
Advisor, Qatar Urban Planning.
ISOCARP Board Member will be our new addition as the Gulf Country Director.
Professor Ali will be one of the keynote speakers at the 2025 Graz Conference.
We are now inviting global scholars to send abstracts of no more than 300 words on the thematic areas addressing the various relevant issues on migration and its narratives.
Abstracts should be sent to Dr Quazi Zaman , Chair of BURC, on or before 20 January 2025.
Late submissions will not be considered.
The 4th Border Urbanism Conference 2024 Socio-spatial Narratives of Migrants’ Journey takes place from 27 – 30 June.
Image copyright Julie Ricard, Unsplash

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7537-from-grays-to-the-royal-scottish-academy-ade-adesinas-success-story:
Since graduating in 2012 from Gray's School of Art , I've been fortunate with the direction my practice and artistic production have taken.
I had opportunities to spend some time travelling around the world on art residencies and exhibitions.
My artistic career to date has included some challenges but lots of dedication and a close focus on my practice has  overcome many of these challenges.
Some of my career highlights would be being elected as a Royal Scottish Academician in 2017, which was an unexpected pleasure to me at the time, and the great honour of being recognised this way after just 5 years since my graduation at Gray’s.
I was also awarded the Mario Avati Engraving Prize in Paris 2023 which led to my first solo exhibition in France at Academie des Beaux-Arts.
The exhibition was a tremendous experience, and the hospitality offered by Academie des Beaux-Arts was phenomenal.
My work is a visual commentary around the ideas of ecology and our ever-changing world.
I am fascinated by how the human footprint is affecting our planet.
I am a traditional printmaker and I like to produce work in various ways and methods to tell a story or make a record of various issues about a particular time or event.
I combine my African cultural roots with British culture, producing work that makes people reflect on themselves and their histories.
My practice is influenced by my experiences of travel and the imagery that I encounter.
I enjoy researching and visualising the differences between countries both historically and culturally.
My ideas come from the new places I’ve visited and I also source information from television and documentaries.
In the last decade, I produced works that were heavily influenced by issues surrounding climate change, deforestation, and wildlife.
But in recent years, I've been making works that are statements or visual communications on global current affairs.
I have also enjoyed opportunities to explore around the North East of Scotland and the Highlands.
The landscape and wildlife of Scotland have always been a great source of inspiration and provide a calmness in my work.
I feel I still have a connection with RGU and Gray's School of Art and I remain in contact with most of my former tutors and professors, some of which are still working at the University.
I was also a summer school short course tutor in Gray’s printmaking department until 2019.
I'm glad to return this year and to have this opportunity to exhibit some of my work in the lovely Sir Ian Wood Building with my exhibition entitled "Dome".
Most of the skills that I now use in my professional career have been taught here at RGU and I'm happy to display my work, which doubles as evidence of my creative journey so far.
After moving to Aberdeen for my studies in 2008, my experience in Scotland in general was and still is a positive one.
As a Nigerian, I didn't feel out of place, and Scotland offers a lot of opportunities and support to develop yourself.
With a lot of hard work and dedication, anything can be achieved.
Most works on display have a story or statement running through them that serves as a memory of the past, whilst bringing  into perspective possible futuristic scenarios.
These themes reappear through the body of my work in this exhibition.
I hope that the viewers and the RGU community reflect upon these themes and enjoy my work.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7318-ride-to-success-a-year-of-cycling-initiatives:
As part of RGU’s sustainability programme, cycling has been heavily promoted both by my role as Campus Cycling Officer, and through the many activities organised throughout the last year, including:
For example, as you may have seen advertised relentlessly on the Bulletin, several cycling confidence training sessions have been arranged, where individuals get one-on-one training with a professional trainer from Sustrans on the basics of cycling, from learning how to balance on a bike and pedalling to using the brakes and gears.
These sessions have helped at least five people who were initially very nervous about cycling to pick it up as if they were pros!
Considering they had not had the opportunity to cycle for various reasons prior to this training, this has been an incredible initiative for them, and we have received great feedback for it.
Another key activity has been the organisation of refurbished bike sales.
In partnership with Stella’s Voice who have repaired bikes which would have otherwise gone to landfill, RGU has hosted various sales on campus for staff and students, with prices ranging from £40 to £120.
So far, 20 of these bikes have been sold, with more sales yet to come.
This activity has not only promoted circular economy principles, through ensuring that no parts have gone to waste, but it has also increased access to bikes for many.
Considering the current expense of buying a new bike, those who come from lower-income households and international students are often restricted from trying out cycling.
These sales have ensured inclusivity and have benefited many throughout the university.
Dr Bike sessions, a partnership with Love to Ride and Sports Aberdeen, have also made a great impact on staff and students.
These events have allowed individuals to get their bike repaired for free, with two sessions helping nearly 40 individuals to check their brakes, tyres, gears and more.
Not only have these sessions increased their understanding of bike mechanics, but they have also increased confidence in cycling on a general scale and encouraged longer and more frequent routes.
Our partnership with Police Scotland has also allowed us to deliver Bike Security sessions alongside this event, so that those who feel safe riding again can relax even more in the knowledge that they have significantly reduced their chances of bike theft.
Again, we have received a lot of great feedback for these sessions, especially once people found out the service was free!
Lastly, through various funding applications, we have been able to hugely support and promote BikePad.
For example, in the last year, we’ve received nearly £20,000 from Cycling Scotland and Paths for All to support cycling activities and infrastructure.
Part of this funding will go towards four new e-bikes for staff, but we’ve also been able to use it to get accessories and parts for Bikepad along with 16 new bikes which will help massively increase the demand of the services they offer.
Of course!
Considering the success of the cycling events at RGU, we thought why not extend this beyond the boundaries of the university?
This led to my volunteering at Portlethen Primary School as part of a community engagement initiative, where I aided teachers and parents in delivering Bikeability training to P6 students for a few days.
This included teaching four children how to ride a bike, supervising 50-60 children practice their skills on the road, and demonstrating important moves such as pulling up from a kerb, hand signals and turning.
By engaging with the school, the course was able to run for the week, allowing two classes to successfully pass after having learned important basics for cycling on roads.
Considering this success, this engagement will hopefully continue to run once courses begin again in September.
We also had a panel talk, followed by a Q&A, arranged back in March as part of the Active Travel Fest, which was open to both university members and the wider community.
Speakers from various local organisations (Aberdeen Cycle Forum, Cycling UK, Critical Mass Aberdeen and CTC Grampian) kindly volunteered to come to talk about all things cycling, from motivations for cycling and existing barriers to participation such as gender, policy, infrastructure, as well as possible solutions.
We even had RGU’s very own Student Union Education & Welfare President, Oluwatoyin Bolajoko, moderate the event.
What was particularly inspiring was the end speech by a Student Union representative, Johnson Oshodi, who before coming to RGU, had never picked up a bike.
However, through the activities mentioned previously, such as cycling confidence training and the refurbished bike sales, he was soon able to comfortably pedal throughout the city.
With nearly 50 audience members registered to attend, this event was successful in bringing together members of the institution and community figures in an inspiring way.
Lastly, we have worked with a variety of organisations and groups throughout the city to help promote the cycling agenda and encourage community development in this sector, such as with the local Aberdeen Council, Nestrans, Sustrans, NHS Grampian and BeCycle.
We have shown the local council how popular cycling is and why change throughout the city is needed.
For example, through promoting Love to Ride and its app on campus, we have helped them collect data on cycling activity throughout Aberdeen and the shire to show to the local council.
Through attending regular meetings with Sports Aberdeen and Getabout, we have been able to update the local council and relevant organisations on ongoing projects and areas which we need aid with.
We have been able to relay comments on the local infrastructure, facilities, and campaigns, and also work together with some of the organisations to encourage more individuals in the communities to take up cycling.
This already has had a large impact on not only the amount of people who have started cycling but also on the city itself, shown through the addition of a cycling path on Union Street in the city centre.
At the end of the day, as soon as we leave the university, we all become part of the wider community, so why not help out someone who could be our neighbour or postman or best friend’s daughter.
Ensuring that we have these strong ties with the local community organisations, groups and charities ultimately helps in addressing issues which affect us all, through combining expertise, resources, and skills.
In this way, we can ensure that initiatives are inclusive and sustainable.
Engaging with the wider community is also great for the staff and students themselves.
I’ve seen members of the University build relationships with our partners which have led to formal training, knowledge transfer and potential volunteering or job opportunities.
Through these connections, RGU has been able to empower its students too, which is always a key aim of the institution.
Personally, the highlight has been not only getting to meet many of RGU’s fantastic staff and students and the wider community, but seeing how empowered these activities have made them!
I think I’ve always taken knowing how to cycle for granted, as I got taught when I was young, but I’m now far more aware of the various barriers that people can face and the importance of spreading the knowledge.
I’ve met people who assumed to be too old to get on a bike, children who feel insecure as they watch their peers riding their bikes and laughing, individuals whose cultures prohibited them from learning how to cycle due to gender disparities.
Seeing people’s faces light up when they can finally pedal while keeping their balance, or when they learn that they don’t need to pay extortionate amounts for a new bike or servicing which could keep them from doing what they love, has been so inspiring.
Knowing that I’ve helped to make such a difference in people’s lives and seeing the comments which come in after each activity has been great.
At the end of the day, apart from the various benefits it provides such as physical activity, improved mental health and encouraging sustainability, cycling is just really fun and I love being able to help give people that experience.
I would love to not only continue the activities, but to expand our community engagement initiatives.
There are so many ongoing projects throughout Aberdeen which aim to promote cycling to the local community, and many of them rely a lot on partner collaboration.
This could include helping out at active travel fairs, volunteering to run Bikeability courses to other primary schools, encouraging marginalised demographics to participate in led rides, and donating bikes or parts to local organisations who could re-use them for other purposes.
The best way is to just keep an eye out on social media platforms (GoGreen, the Student Union, and ResLife) and the Bulletin.
Any time an event is organised, it will typically be advertised on these platforms along with RGU’s Cycling Group Teams page.
It’s also a good way to see if there are any volunteering opportunities available, especially for these future community initiatives, which could look great on CVs!

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7292-aberdeen-business-school-host-annual-nibes-event:
This is a global and influential network of 22 Business and Economics Schools in which RGU represents the UK.
In attendance were partners from Taiwan, Germany, France, Indonesia, Portugal, Morocco, Slovenia, Poland, Denmark, Japan, Belgium, Georgia, Mexico, and the USA.
The University has been in this partnership since 2018 and in late June it proudly hosted Deans from partner international business schools to discuss research, internationalisation strategy, and to share new approaches and expertise around teaching and learning.
The NIBES network was founded in 1996 in Tours, France with the objective to promote internationalisation and to encourage an understanding of global contexts within business education.
Transnational mobility of students and faculty as well as scholarly exchange between partner institutions are the main goals of the network.
As part of the annual workshop, Professor Paul de Leeuw presented a keynote presentation on the climate emergency, the energy transition and future opportunities for the higher education sector.
This was followed by a showcase of the research activity by the two research groups within Aberdeen Business School - the Small Business and Enterprise group, and the Energy, Sustainability and Society research group.
Research discussions were then followed by strategic discussions around international challenges facing business schools.
Professor Vesna Žabkar, the Secretary General and Chari of the NIBES network said: “Our meeting in Aberdeen was very productive as we discussed current opportunities and issues for global exchange and worked on ideas for future projects that will enable our students, staff and researchers to gain international experience.
Even the weather co-operated and we enjoyed sunny (and relatively warm) days in Aberdeen!”
Dr Simon Fraser, International Engagement Lead at Aberdeen Business School, who was involved in hosting the event, said: “The opportunity to host the NIBES conference in Aberdeen has allowed us to expand our global networks and provided opportunities for initiatives to support internationalisation.
“The NIBES network offers international expertise and has a mission that aligns with our strategy.
Sharing knowledge with these partners improves intercontinental approaches to research and education and provides opportunity to enhance student and staff awareness of the benefits of international partnerships”.
Main image: NIBES delegates attending the 28th Annual Network of International Business and Economics Schools (NIBES).

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/extending-reach/7236-play-and-stay-with-rgus-summer-of-sport:
As we enter the summer months, exciting sporting events are starting to happen all over the world, with many looking forward to cheering for their favourite teams or athletes.
RGU SPORT is looking to bring this energy on our campus with gatherings aiming to allow participants to take a break from the worries of work and life, have some fun, and maybe even learn something new.
Each of the three events will start with a relaxed trial of a sport or physical activity that can be done at RGU SPORT, followed by a sporting event screening relating to that activity.
For example, Teqball Table will be played for the Euros, Pickleball for Wimbledon, and Weightlifting for the Olympics.
Participants can drop-in at any time, and decide to only come for the sport session, the screening, or both.
The goal is for everyone to enjoy their time and only do things they are comfortable with.
RGU SPORT organised these events with wellbeing at their core.
We all know it is easy to get overwhelmed with the stress of everyday responsibilities and never-ending deadlines.
This is why it is important to draw some boundaries and make sure to take some time to sit back and relax.
And while the events encourage everyone to take a break, they are also a great opportunity to network and meet new people.
The laid-back nature of “Play and Stay” also debunks the stereotype that sports can only be competitive.
The play sessions will be fun, informative, and open to everyone regardless of their previous experience.
They are a way to learn something new, get moving, and socialise.
There is no need to have an RGU SPORT membership, everyone can participate.
Here is more information about each session if you are interested in taking part:
2.30pm: Teqball Table Tutorial
3pm: Croatia vs Albania
TBC: Pickleball
TBC: Gentlemen's Single Semi-Finals
TBC: Weightlifting Session
TBC: Weightlifting Finals
Keep an eye out for timings as these will be updated in the following weeks.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/7865-meet-2025s-startup-accelerator-cohort:
RGU’s flagship start-up programme has helped create over 130 new ventures in addition to many jobs and positive economic impact.
There have been many success stories, including the recently heralded Archilink and Highland Heritage Woodworks .
This year, applications were open to anyone, anywhere, who is aiming to launch a business based in Aberdeen City.
For the selected start-ups, in addition to pragmatic and seasoned entrepreneurship education, programme highlights include £1,000 equity-free seed funding, mentorship, plugging into academic and entrepreneurial ecosystem support, and, of course, opportunities to exhibit and live pitch for cash prizes at the hotly anticipated Startup Showcase event.
Due to popular demand, this event will once again be held at our mothership RGU campus in Garthdee, Aberdeen, taking place on Wednesday 26 March 2025.
Promising out-of-this-world surprises for guests travelling from Sri Lanka and beyond, this year we are delighted to announce special award categories, including the Felix Chung Sustainability Prize and the SRM Foundation Prize for Innovation – both of which will be worth £5,000 each - plus the Mentor/Judges Prize.
See more information on this year’s start-ups below:
Founders: Rumeth Sandinu; Shamal Rathnayaka; Thenumi Sedara; Naveen Wanshapura (all current students at IIT , partners of RGU)
AeroGen's goal is to ensure business travellers arrive at their destination on time even if their flight gets delayed or cancelled.
The Sri Lankan team will forecast flight delays and cancellations using blockchain and AI to show a reliability score for each flight option before booking.
Founder: Francesco Gruosso (Alumni)
Transforming student feedback into actionable insights with real-time AI analysis and HCI techniques to reduce cognitive load and boost participation.
Effortless, anonymous feedback that empowers educational institutions to improve continuously.
Founder: Chibuzor Okongwu (Alumni)
This learning app empowers children with autism/learning disabilities by offering a personalised, sensory-friendly platform that promotes cognitive and social growth.
It provides essential resources for parents and educators.
Founders: Ademola Akinlabi (Graduate); Kelechi Nwankpa (Alumni); Lekan Abodunrin (Alumni); Oyindamola Adekunle
ChumCore addresses the issue of impersonal and fake reviews by prioritising trusted recommendations from friends and family, providing a personal, authentic way to discover ideal spots and sustain connections.
Founder: Nandhini Thiruneelakandan (Alumni)
Cyber Nandhini secures IoT environments using the powerful Kerberos authentication protocol to safeguard user data and ensure controlled device access.
Founder: Shoaib Rasul
FlowIT turns your miles into exclusive rewards and discounts at local restaurants and shops.
No commissions for partners, just healthier lifestyles and unique rewards for all.
Founders: Oscar Nicol-Schwarz (Current Student); Alastair Thomson (Current Student)
Grounded provides plant pot systems that allow people to cultivate their own renewable eco-sponges grown from plant roots.
Founder: Madina Intykbayeva (Current Student, MBA)
Illumint offers AI-powered emissions management solutions, utilising satellite data, drone-based inspections, and real-time analytics to detect and reduce methane emissions, helping companies improve their environmental performance.
Founders: Jennifer Innes (Current Student); Lauren McCann (Current Student)
IM Innovation is a gadget that scans your fridge items, reminds you of their expiry dates, and suggests recipes to use them up - helping you save money, reduce waste, and make every meal count.
Founders: Luci Carey, Campbell Carey
Inglaze offers an adaptable, affordable secondary glazing system suitable for all window shapes and approved for listed buildings, made from recycled and recyclable materials.
Founder: Rachel Fowler (Current Student)
Owned by None creates one-of-a-kind handcrafted pieces from locally sourced leather and wool, with each collection named and numbered to be loved by one.
Founder: Mohammadreza Amiri (Current Student); Digvijay Rameshbhai Parmar (Current Student)
Improving rock wettability and interfacial tension using silica nanoparticles combined with water flooding technique, designed for oil companies seeking to maximize oil recovery.
Founder: Juan McKenzie (Alumni)
Poseidon is a revolutionary electric life buoy that pulls you back to land by gripping the handles, addressing the threat of hypothermia in water temperatures below 15°C.
Founders: Alan Fleming (Current Staff); Julie Fleming (Alumni)
Processing PVG and other types of criminal checks on behalf of businesses and organisations across Scotland.
Founder: Findlay Rhind (Current Student)
Stallion Slices delivers fresh, locally-sourced, and sustainably crafted pizza from a converted vintage horse trailer at events across Aberdeenshire.
Founder: Chris Burnett (Alumni)
Encouraging people to deepen their relationships with family, friends, and partners through conversations beyond the everyday.
Founders: Aakanksha Sadekar (Alumni); Sarabjeet (Sara) Kaur (Alumni)
Tracker.Health is transforming remote care with wearable and radar tech, global payments, and real-time monitoring, connecting expats to their families and supporting elder care.
Founders: John Mailey; Alison Mitchell (Alumni)
Windstorm is developing an enhanced wind turbine system that addresses issues related to size, noise, visual, and environmental impact, with a disruptive design based on a modified vertical axis wind turbine (VAWT) working prototype.
The RGU Startup Accelerator Programme 2025 is funded through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund via Aberdeen City Council.
This funding enables us to follow guidance from the Entrepreneurial Campus 2023 report, fortifying collaborative links between academia, commercialisation, and industry.
The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group is a part of Business and Economic Development at RGU.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/7844-we-have-lift-off-with-the-rgu-startup-accelerator-2025:
Now running in its seventh year, RGU’s flagship start-up programme has helped create over 130 new ventures in addition to many jobs and positive economic impact.
Our community focused campaign included university guest lectures to over 600 students, and external presentations at the Net Zero Technology Centre, University of Aberdeen, and Opportunity Northeast Tech Hub, reaching the Aberdeen and North East entrepreneurial community and beyond.
The RGU Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group (EIG) was over the moon to receive more than 150 submissions for Accelerator 2025.
High quality applications made the judges' selection process quite challenging.
As usual, the competition was open to all industries and innovative early-stage start-up ideas.
For the 18 selected start-ups, in addition to pragmatic and seasoned entrepreneurship education, programme highlights include £1,000 equity-free seed funding, mentorship, plugging into academic and entrepreneurial ecosystem support, and, of course, opportunities to exhibit and live pitch for cash prizes at the hotly anticipated Startup Showcase event.
This year’s entrepreneurial ideas range from helping to bring an end to cancelled flight travel woes to growing your own eco-sponges.
Stay tuned to find out more about each start-up in the coming weeks.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/7455-everything-you-need-to-know-about-rgus-seventh-startup-accelerator:
For those who are not yet familiar with it, the RGU Startup Accelerator is Robert Gordon University’s flagship startup and entrepreneurial development programme.
Now running in our seventh year, we support early-stage innovative business ideas from all sectors and have supported the creation of over 130 new startup ventures.
This year, all paths lead to Aberdeen, meaning the Startup Accelerator is open to anyone anywhere who intends to start a business in Aberdeen City.
What makes this year’s programme different is you do not need to have an RGU link to apply, nor do you need to be a university student or staff member, so share this with a friend!
Programme benefits include:
We welcome all participant personalities and profiles in the RGU Accelerator.
Often, the cross-disciplinary aspect and diversity of gender, cultures and backgrounds is where the magic of innovation lies.
In terms of budding entrepreneur traits, enthusiasm, proactivity and willingness to learn from mistakes is key!
For more general tips, please do answer all the required questions in the application form and we do welcome third sector applications from charities.
With the programme being open to all this year, I am most looking forward to the range of backgrounds, and experiences that will make up this cohort 7.
The programme being open to all has been made possible with funding through the UK Government and Aberdeen City Council.
I am looking forward to the ideas this more inclusive programme will attract, along with working to develop those early-stage innovations helping to assist economic development in the Aberdeen region.
RGU staff in particular should take part as the Accelerator is an excellent, pragmatic entrepreneurial development opportunity that is flexible around work.
Over the years, we have had RGU staff take part in the process and each have shared how beneficial the experience has been for numerous reasons such as gaining entrepreneurial skills and confidence, or even often for more personal reasons.
Apply now:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/6966-back-to-the-future-with-the-rgu-startup-accelerator-2024:
All applicants needed to enter was an innovative early-stage start-up idea, including third sector, sustainability and impact-based projects.
The 2024 Accelerator is now in full swing, with members of this year’s cohort travelling to in person sessions in Aberdeen all the way from Ethiopia, London, Coventry, and Edinburgh!
Why the travel?
Along with benefitting from seasoned support from RGU’s Entrepreneurship & Innovation Group (EIG) our cohort is further strengthened by our active collaborations within the dedicated North-east entrepreneurial support ecosystem.
Adding to participant benefits of £1,000 equity free start-up seed funding, mentorship, free co-working space at the city-centre based ONETech Hub and a new benefit this year transformational coaching for personal development, we also plug our Accelerator start-ups into industry support from ecosystem partners like Barclays Eagle Labs, Murgitroyd, Converge, Interface, DataLabs, Techscaler and more, all in line with the Entrepreneurial Campus report, fortifying collaborative links between academia, commercialisation and industry.
Looking to the future, this year the annual Startup Showcase event is holding on our home turf of RGU, Garthdee Campus on Thursday 16 May, 2024.
The highly anticipated event will showcase Accelerator finalists pitches, the cohort’s mini expo stands and also promises to have some exciting surprises in store for guests this year.
Start-ups in the programme range from a digital twin heart to AI driven ground modelling solutions for offshore windfarms.
Founder: Colin Fraser
Meet Colin, the doodler and storyteller behind Big Dog Stories - a a series of children's picture books centred around a leggy rescue lurcher and his adventures.
But this isn’t just a series of story books, it’s a creative escape.
Writing a children’s book had been a tick box on Colin’s bucket list for many years but being an illustrator was something that was left far back in his childhood.
When illustrating his first story - ‘Big Dog and the Home for Lost Hounds’ - he found as an adult, his favoured past time brought him a space to switch-off from the ‘real world’ and destress.
Seeing the value drawing brought, he decided to use his stories as the vehicle to encourage others to pick up the pencil and switch-off through sketch.
Each book instalment comes with a downloadable activity pack with colouring-in pages, drawing tasks and doodling prompts to get children, their parents and relatives to connect with their creativity.
With the first book edging towards print, this is just one of a very long tail of tales.
Founders: Adedeji Aremu, Olugbenga Abejirin, Banke Abejirin
Cardiovascular Diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide - Accounting for 17.9 million lives each year, (85% die from Heart Attacks & strokes alone) around 31% of all global deaths.
Cardio Intel addresses this with the Digital Heart - a digital twin of your heart on a mobile app!
The Digital Heart is a virtual and personalized representation of the user's heart for the practical purposes of monitoring, prevention, and diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases.
Founders: Rebeka Szaboova, Kaya Malinowska
Carniebees is a dynamic startup that focuses on bringing the goodness of nature to customers.
Specialising in producing and selling a unique range of honey infusions and offering a delightful blend of flavours that cater to health-conscious individuals seeking natural alternatives.
The products stand out in the market due to their quality, innovation, and commitment to sustainability.
Founder: Sabina Porter
A wellness app with a social media aspect, made for 18-24 year-old female survivors of sexual violence.
The apps design is playful and bright whilst still conveying a serious message.
Many survivors suffer in silence, EmpowHER serves to help them understand they are not alone and offers many ways to help whilst building a community.
EmpowHER is the first of its kind, tackling this common faced trauma from a new perspective that is less daunting; making help more accessible to the target.
EmpowHER’s ambition is to help survivors nationwide and unify their voices to create change.
Founder: Georgiana F Bugeag
GB Rights Consult addresses the gaps in UK support services by offering personalised representation to individuals facing challenges in employment rights, welfare rights, housing support, and complaints against public services.
The mission centres around empowering people to know their rights and stand up for themselves.
GB Rights Consult distinguishes itself in the market through its innovation combination of personalised representation services and a centralised app-drive community platform.
Founders: Jan Stander & Luis Toral
InnoSport AI offers an AI-driven sports coaching platform that transforms the training experience for athletes and coaches.
Catering to a wide range of customers, from amateur enthusiasts to professional sports teams.
The platform provides personalized, high-quality training guidance using advanced technology.
The ambition is to democratize elite sports coaching, making top-tier training accessible to all, and to become a leading name in sports technology.
Founder: Roni (Weronika) Dziubek
Aiming to help crochet beginners who are just starting out learn and give clear visual instructions which will be in short sections so as not to overwhelm the beginner.
This is the main problem which people face when wanting to learn how to crochet.
Providing clear tutorials for customers to learn how to crochet, these tutorials will be broken up into smaller videos and this also means it’ll be easier to find the place they where at within the video complementing this by creating affordable crochet starter kits.
Founders: Jacob Stobie & Cyril Sam
NÃ darrach carefully sources tallow-based skincare offerings from local, regenerative farms that use rotational grazing methods to raise healthy livestock, rebuild soil and ensure utmost care with regards to animal welfare.
Modern skincare products increasingly rely on harmful ingredients - Nadarrach seeks to provide a real solution to this issue.
NÃ darrach caters to those that are health and sustainability conscious, those afflicted by chronic skin conditions to the many who are disadvantaged by a lack of understanding regarding science-based skincare - aiming to educate and engender ESG values through social media channels.
The ambition is to diversify the product range, innovate sustainability practices and establish the brand as a leader in natural, sustainable skincare.
Founder: Nyameye Otoo
The app would be key in photograph and progress management, this application is of value to both the amateur and also the serious professional.
The former because it lowers the barrier of entry into Film Photography and the enthusiast because it allows reliable progress tracking, and the ability to improve getting it "right first time."
Founders: Rory Quinn-Bailie & Jeremy Arnold
Placement Hub is a platform for health care students to share their experiences at specific placement sites, allowing incoming students to set informed expectations, and to communicate directly with students previously in their position.
The vision is to provide a space that empowers health care students across the UK to go into their placements on a more informed, prepared, and confident level.
Founders: Wenfang Fan and Shaji Mathew
The business idea is to develop a software platform that leverages AI technology to generate an integrated ground model for use in offshore windfarm development.
This AI-based software is anticipated to enhance operational efficiency and significantly reduce the time required to produce the ground model.
The proposed AI-powered software solution is poised to revolutionize the industry by delivering faster and more efficient results in a considerably shorter timeframe.
This innovation aims to provide developers with critical information for offshore wind farm installations.
The software is expected to benefit a wide range of industries, including offshore wind farms, CCS, hydrogen, or tidal industries that require offshore installations.
The output from the software will encompass interpreted seabed hazards, sub-surface horizons, a geological ground model incorporating geological log data, and a comprehensive report of the results, including an uncertainty assessment.
Founders:  Emmanuel Eke & Ojotule Onoja
STEMSpec is an innovative app designed to solve the pervasive problem of limited STEM adoption in UK secondary schools.
The main issue addressed is the lack of clarity and guidance for students exploring STEM education and career paths.
The founders strongly believe the current challenge of STEM adoption in the UK can be significantly reduced if students gain more clarity on how their current STEM subjects align with different career paths in STEM.
That clarity is what STEMSpec is providing.
Founders: Shauna Narine & Josh Mennie
Team Up North is the future of impactful corporate engagement in North East Scotland.
The mission is to foster a cohesive community where businesses actively collaborate with the third sector, driving positive change across the region.
Through streamlined processes, specialised skill utilisation, and bespoke Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, they hope to bridge the skills gap between corporations and charities, empowering professionals to make a meaningful impact.
With a comprehensive approach encompassing service matching, skill-based volunteering, and donations, they aim to drive meaningful change while promoting sustainability and social responsibility.
Team Up to create a brighter future for North East Scotland.
Founder: Mike Gill
The UK rail freight industry relies on a 1974 mainframe called TOPS to control the movement and maintenance of 24,000 freight wagons.
In effect, this rich source of operational data is locked away in the 1970s.
Fleet controllers, looking after 800 wagons, start their day fishing in TOPS for problems that impact wagon availability, the key contractual measure across the industry.
There are 50 companies with fleet controllers who directly manage rail freight wagons.
The Weavecentrix solution frees up the operational rail freight data currently locked away in TOPS and enriches it in innovative ways that give actionable insights to rail freight operators, maintainers, and engineers.
Tailoring will be offered to companies who are seeking competitive advantage, driving more insights from the data through the use of machine learning, targeted at maintenance and availability.
Founders: Shiva Afraste & Albena Kostadinova
Grampian region hosts many young asylum seekers who are unaccompanied.
These young boys and girls age 16-22 years have fled from their countries of origin to seek refuge.
They are often unaccompanied by an adult, isolated, alone, confused and scared.
Needing someone to befriend them, to help understand the culture , community integration and protect them from depression, suicide and crime.
The business model is matching a local young adult to befriend a young asylum seeker.
The ambition is to help the young asylum seeker develop skills required for getting independent and ready for their life in UK through optimised befriending so they can contribute to the local economy.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/5871-innovation-at-the-heart-of-rgu-startup-accelerator-2023:
The application process for this year’s programme was as competitive as ever with new enquiries still incoming now despite applications closing in December.
Following the deadline, the Accelerator boot camp was held in mid-January, during which our final teams were selected to officially join the programme starting later that month.
Each cohort participant will benefit from five months of business training and support; at least £2,000 in equity-free seed funding with thousands more up for grabs during the programme; mentorship; and free city centre co-working space at the ONE Tech Hub.
During the process, all start-ups are supported in their growth by ourselves in the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group (EIG) where they can explore their innovations further by testing assumptions; conducting market research; undertaking business model analysis; and working on their ever-important financials.
Perhaps most exciting, the team will also be helping them to prepare their pitch for this year’s showcase event, taking place on Thursday 11 May at the Sandman Hotel in Aberdeen.
Early-stage ideas in this year’s programme,  funded by the Wood Foundation, range from generative artificial intelligence to an asylum seeker support organisation.
All progressing brilliantly, you can learn more about each of 2023’s RGU Startup Accelerator cohort here:
Founded by: Stuart Wright
The Members Guest app is designed to bring together golf club members and nomad or travelling golfers to share their love of the game.
Inspired by the short-term rental homes market, the aim is to allow golf club members to showcase their golf course at reasonable prices whilst gaining commercially for their time and efforts.
The App aims to build a strong community of golfers throughout the UK and Ireland initially, and globally eventually, whilst capitalising on under-utilised tee times and providing additional financial support for Golf clubs.
Founded by: Tara Murray
Birch Blossom Project Consultants provide professional and tailored project management support to climate change community groups and organisations in the North East of Scotland, to plan and complete projects which benefit their community and the environment.
Its aim is to save customers time, money and stress so they can focus on other aspects of their worthwhile project.
Founded by: Grant Learmonth
Overlook Digital is a digital marketing agency that provides tailored marketing support and education for SMEs in the North East of Scotland.
They want to take the mysticism away from digital marketing and allow SMEs to be able to confidently run their own campaigns from start to finish after working with Overlook Digital.
Founded by: Dhanush Roy, Akhila Joe
Sparebill is developing a centralised application that offers a hassle-free return process with automated receipt storage.
The app also stores all product warranty and guarantee receipts for easy access throughout the user's lifetime.
Additionally, it tracks auto parts invoices and alerts users when parts need replacement.
With AI integration, Sparebill categorises purchases to allow customers to track spending by category.
Finally, users can create groups to share bills by logging into their accounts.
By digitizing all receipts, the app promotes eco-friendliness by reducing paper usage.
Founded by: Amy Davys, Kirsty Main
Alturo is the future of social prescribing in healthcare and is striving to lower the rate of suicide globally through free and accessible support.
To achieve this, Alturo offer a self-sustainable solution that is 2-fold: 1) an online platform designed for people to find support groups and other related services and 2) provide service providers (i.e.
charities, community groups, wellness activity hosts) with the research and marketing tools that can help them scale with ease.
Think Airbnb for peer support and that's Alturo.
Join them on this journey towards a world where everyone has access to the support and resources they need to thrive.
Founded by: Adam Hanzely, Liam Wilson, Catherine Fahey
Exhibition is creating an online platform for art, fashion and design students to sell their work and build their portfolio by posting creations for sale or display on their profiles and the feed of our website.
The site will also offer features that encourage and allow for future collaboration or commissioned works.
Its aim is to increase students’ prospects, while creating a motivating and inspiring community, as well as offer individualistic works from up-and-coming creators to potential buyers and art enthusiasts.
Founded by: Ilanchezhiyan Balasubramanaian
Rebatt is developing a one-hub platform that offers a sustainable solution for repurposing retired batteries, providing usable Li-ion batteries for energy storage applications.
Their data-driven approach, utilising information from EV industries and government websites, allows them to create a lithium-ion data platform for the market, enabling stakeholders to connect and streamline the process of buying and selling these batteries.
Founded by: Edwina Asumang, Joshua Ekekwe, Oghosa Igiehon, Wissam Nacef, Samuel Oyewusi and Kofi Yeboah
This team is creating Assetworx, an online digital asset platform built primarily for architecture, engineering and design students.
The subscription service aims to provide users with a content-rich library of dynamic creative and technical assets ranging from cadblocks to vector files.
Assetworx believe they will be the one-stop shop for students to access the assets they need to save time and make their work a success.
Founded by: Ememandu Freedom, Ifionu Juliana and Ememandu Teddy-Livingstone
ExaSync is building the next generation payment infrastructure.
It is a seamless and secure blockchain payment gateway platform that empowers individuals and businesses to easily get paid in digital currencies by anyone and from anywhere in the world.
In addition to payment processing, ExaSync will provide additional features such as real-time transaction monitoring, fraud detection and prevention, automated tax calculations and ledger reconciliation.
Founded by: Craig Troup and Pamela Adamiec
Highland Moss is a houseplant shop with a specialisation in moss.
Moss is a fascinating, beautiful kind of plant with versatile uses in horticulture.
They harvest their own moss and make stunning products with it such as moss poles, terrariums, art and more.
In addition to unique products, Highland Moss aim to make houseplants more accessible by offering easy to access care guides, free advice via a plant hospital service and by running fun workshops in their local shop.
Highland Moss sell both online at highlandmoss.com and in store at 61 Constitution St, Aberdeen.
Founded by: Samuel Adebiyi, Ivan Okoli-Ejike
Hololabs’ VR platform offers an immersive and interactive learning experience tailored specifically for students with ADHD and autism spectrum disorders.
By leveraging the power of VR technology, it creates a safe and engaging environment where students can develop crucial skills such as attention, focus, and social communication.
Their goal is to empower students with the tools they need to succeed academically and beyond.
Founded by: Nagashree Ramamurthy, Israel Effiong, Abhishek Byrasandra
Net Triad is a cybersecurity app that aims to tag and trace data running on mobile phones that can be expanded to add on to laptop/PC as well.
This will aim to protect against data theft and minimise the threat of a cyber-attack.
Founded by: Jayne Smith, Jenny McDonald
Asylum and Refugee Care is a charity which offers support to asylum seekers and refugees in the North East of Scotland.
We support survivors of human trafficking and exploitation, partnering with other organisations to offer specialist person-centred trauma support.
AARC ensures that all New Scots feel welcome and have their basic needs met in order to help them integrate into their new communities.
They offer trauma informed, person-centred support.
Examples of this are: supporting at medical appointments, helping to convert qualifications in preparation for getting permission to work, and supporting to access ESOL.
AARC is led and informed by the experiences and voices of those we support, in order to ensure value for all.
Founded by: James Beckwith
Aiming to make professional quantity surveying accessible to this market by providing a fixed price product that can be purchased via an online shop.
Founded by: Lewis Church
The business will offer risograph printing as a service for local artists in need of a means to produce and print their work economically with minimal negative environmental impact.
Founded by: Marcin Jędrol, Shibo Mitchell
Codelion is an interactive and collaborative social network platform that allows users to create instant content, such as games and animations, using code.
With an emphasis on the educational part of coding to enable children to share their work and get support from others.
Thanks to the Wood Foundation for their continued support.
You can find out more about the programme by heading to:
Image shows participants of one of the bootcamps at RGU's campus.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/5634-celebrating-the-past-present-and-future-of-accounting-at-rgu:
The degree was designed to align with the various professional body syllabi and thus obtain maximum exemptions whilst incorporating an extensive credit bearing work placement.
The intention was to produce work-ready graduates and provide students with the knowledge and competence to launch successful accounting careers.
It is with great pride and pleasure that I have watched graduates from the course secure their first graduate jobs; study to become professionally qualified with a variety of professional accounting bodies; become professional prize winners competing against some of the brightest and best graduates in the country; and accelerate up the ranks to CFOs and CEOs of multinational organisations.
The course content and indeed our student profile looks somewhat different than it did 25 years ago when we launched with 19 eager first year students.
We now recruit more than 100 students each year, including students who can enter directly into third year as part of our focus on widening access and providing opportunities to a wide range of students.
Equality, diversity, and inclusion is of critical importance to the legitimacy, professional ethics, trust creation and future recruitment to the accounting profession and we are delighted to be currently working with Schools who do not traditionally send many pupils to university through RGU’s outreach and school liaison programmes with a view to further increasing the number of students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds.
The content of the degree has changed as we have responded to criticisms levelled at the accounting profession and professional education, the changing role of accountants and the societal responsibility for accountants to work in the public interest.
The beginning of the 21 st century heralded a spate of accounting scandals which called into question the legitimacy of the profession and the ethicality of accountants’ behaviour.
We responded to this concern by both embedding ethics throughout our curriculum and introducing a dedicated ethics module for final year students.
Thinking ahead to future skill requirements, we were early adopters of international accounting standards into the curriculum and we incorporated modules designed to develop both meta and business skills alongside technical skills traditionally associated with accounting degrees.
This has resulted in a contemporary curriculum and a corresponding demand for our graduates by employers.
Our current focus is now on the impact of AI on the accounting role.
My view is that AI is not a threat to accountants but an opportunity.
Basic and dare I say boring, mundane tasks are becoming automated, faster and more efficient and thus accountants are now in a position to provide more added value through financial planning and forecasting, data analysis and analytics and risk management.
Accountants also have a key role to play in the transition that is needed to address climate change.
Not only does sustainability need to be measured, reported and assured which all fall under the accountants’ remit, but accountants have a role to play in helping companies embed sustainability into their corporate strategies.
This includes the development of tangible plans and the modelling of different scenarios to achieve desired outcomes.
Recent additions to our Accounting and Finance curriculum include the introduction of a first-year module on Sustainable Business designed to lay the foundations for subsequent study into sustainability issues embedded throughout the rest of curriculum and a module on the Digital Context of Business designed to provide the context for the future development of analytic and planning skills.
Accountancy and accountants are most certainly not obsolete or in danger of extinction but the skills set required continues to evolve and universities have a responsibility to ensure that their curricula is regularly refreshed to address these current challenges.
I am looking forward to what the future holds and our role in producing the accounting talent of the future so that we can continue to produce graduates who are a credit to themselves, RGU and the accounting profession more generally.
RGU is celebrating 25-years of Accounting and Finance with an event on the evening of Thursday 26 January at the Sir Ian Wood Building.
Registration is free and open to course students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/5632-5-ways-to-improve-leadership-skills-and-generate-business-growth:
If becoming more digital is still something that daunts you as a business owner or manager, fear not.
Few realise just how easy it can be now thanks to a variety of reasons, most pertinently the advancement of technology and amount of resource out there to help.
It’s crucially important and I think businesses from all sectors and sizes need to be exploring just how effectively they can adopt digitalisation and build it into their strategy, SME’s included.
It may be something as simple as some paid advertising on social media or selling more products online on an existing platform.
Small things that take less time than you’d expect could add an extra percentage to your revenue at the end of the year and reach new customers.
Many firms have a section on their website with their mission statement but fail to relate that to how it makes a positive difference for the consumer.
It could be that your mission includes something vague such as “be more inspiring”, but why?
Are you understanding how your values can link you to your customers?
You can use your mission statement to not only build your brand and identify your values, but also to gain a competitive edge.
Resourcing locally and using local products can be part of your mission but also allows you to meet your consumer needs and give you an advantage because the suppliers you’re competing against are competing from across the globe and have neither the local knowledge nor flexible supply chain that can meet local customer desires.
Make your mission statement something that not only identifies you but also gives you an advantage over competition.
Choose one thing that's going to build the growth of your firm and pursue that.
It is easier for start-up firms to have a real focus but the need for common purpose is applicable to all firms.
Once a firm is established it might feel like you don’t have the same focus that you did as a start-up.
This early motivation can be brought back by giving a small team in your firm the autonomy to pursue one new driver of growth which brings time to concentrate and can rejuvenate the firm.
Make whatever the target is a clear objective for people within the organisation to deliver on and give them some autonomy to go and tackle it themselves.
Make it part of the strategy and tie it in with the mission of the group.
Handing over responsibility and entrusting your employees to take charge can have a hugely positive role in the organisation, something to deliver on and actually make business fun, which is of course hugely important.
It should alleviate some stress from the top and enable managers to have more time to do what’s more important than anything, leading.
I see the core operations of your business as right through from how you make your product to how people then engage with the ultimate buying process.
It’s so important to regularly look at who your product users are whilst continually improving their experience and the efficiency of your production process.
The advancement of digitalisation means almost everything an online consumer does can be tracked so it’s now a lot easier to extract useful data to see what your customers are doing when they come onto your website.
Are they spending time on the website and adding something to their basket before stalling and failing to purchase?
Or entering the website and leaving very soon after?
Both tell a different story and subtle changes can make hugely positive impacts.
Knowing the type of consumer that’s visiting your website is an important first step and something that’s essential to continuously monitor.
Explore the data, map it out and improve your bottom line as a direct result.
Many firms use both financial and non-financial KPIs to help them understand their performance.
The Help to Grow: Management course takes our businesses through 6 key metrics that help you understand whether your firm is efficient and successful and I’ll briefly take you through two in this article.
I would draw readers attention to Gross Profit Margin (GPM).
This is a simple ratio-based formula on gross profit divided by sales, very useful for businesses that sell goods but not services.
A poor figure for GPM tells a leader to review operations and lower the cost of goods sold.
It can also mean your product is viewed as inferior by customers and thus prompt review of your place in the market.
The other really interesting and not often used metric is Sales Per Employee (SPE).
This is derived by simply dividing total revenue by the number of employees.
This is useful for service-based firms and tells you how efficient your people are at driving revenue.
Don’t see it as an absolute figure but use its rate of change to track improvements and motivate you as a leader.
It can help you understand productivity and lead to better profit levels, allowing you to understand just how important the workforce is!
It wasn’t easy, but they’re my 5 key takeaways from the 12 course modules and what I would prioritise to improve both leadership and growth.
If you are a senior business leader of an SME with ambitions to grow your business, RGU is providing support to transform your company by delivering the Government’s Help to Grow: Management course.
The in-depth, high-quality curriculum will support you to build your capabilities in leadership, innovation, digital adoption, employee engagement, marketing, and financial management.
By the end of Help to Grow: Management you will develop a business growth plan to help you lead your business to release its potential.
With just one session per week, the course has been designed to fit around the workload of senior managers.
The course is 90% funded by Government meaning participants only pay £750.
The sixth Cohort of RGU's Help to Grow: Management begins on 31 March 2023, to find out more and the eligibility criteria please visit www.rgu.ac.uk/helptogrow .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgview/economic-development/5025-reflecting-on-rgu-s-startup-showcase-2022:
Ever since the first Accelerator Programme in 2018, RGU has been able to support over 92 businesses and generated £1.6 million in economic impact, driving the economic development of the region forward.
The event started with light music playing and the room was bathed in a soft light, as the excited start-ups finished their final preparations for the showcase to come.
The suspense in the room was almost visible, as the teams prepared their stalls for the attending guests.
After five months of entrepreneurial training and mentorship the showcase marks the final competition, with a total of £80,000 in prize money at stake.
Although a general nervousness could be felt from the pitching teams, the bond and connection that the teams had built over the past months seemingly helped to calm their nerves, as they shared their excitement for the upcoming showcase.
With 36 participating teams, the room was vibrant with innovative spirit, as most teams brought unique props to demonstrate their vision.
This also reflected the broad variety of business ideas present in the room, as the stalls were an interactive experience with drones, wine tasting and virtual reality.
As the guests arrived and the music picked up its speed, the room slowly came to life as attendees walked around the room to have conversations about possible business opportunities, while enjoying food and drink.
H2O Heroes, one of the participating teams said that seeing it all come together and watching the ideas come to live was a key highlight moment on their entrepreneurial journey.
The audience in the room was a mixture of invited guests, industry experts and past participants of the programme who watched as Chris Moule, the Head of Entrepreneurship and Innovation at RGU, introduced the event.
Nine finalists took to the stage with five minutes to share their story, impress the judges, and entertain the audience.
The ideas ranged from artificial intelligence technologies to climate positive waste management solutions to innovative local accommodation pods.
Some of the awarded prizes went to The Habitat People, for ‘Climate Impact’, Two Racoons for ‘Regional Impact’ and the ‘Audience Choice Award’ and Kitchen Integrated Fire Suppression System (KIFSS) for ‘Innovation Impact’ and the ‘High Growth Bonus’.
In order to come this far, the teams had to overcome challenges such as finding their first customers, developing a business model and building a prototype for their businesses.
While some teams stumbled upon their entrepreneurial spirit by accident, and work full time jobs on the side, others bring over 20 years of industry experience to the table.
However, one thing all teams have in common is the spirit to take action and pursue their passion.
Donella Beaton, Vice Principal for Economic Development at RGU gave any aspiring entrepreneurs the advice to “be brave, be bold and to embrace the opportunity”.
If you would like to rewatch the Startup Showcase 2022 online or have missed the event, you can do so via YouTube.
This year's event has been funded by The Scottish Government and Scottish Funding Council through the North East Economic Recovery and Skills Fund (NEERSF) with support from Opportunity North East Limited.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/art-heritage-collections/contact-information-and-policies:
Art & Heritage Collections
We are committed to making our collections widely available and welcome informal enquiries from other museums to discuss practicalities.
RGU Art and Heritage Collections Access and Engagement Policy
RGU Art and Heritage External Loans Procedure
Our collecting themes and priorities are set out in our Collections Management and Development Policy, but our ability to accept donations may be constrained by factors such as staffing, storage or costs relating to collections care.
If you would like to discuss a potential donation, please contact collections@rgu.ac.uk .
RGU Art  Heritage Collections Management and Development Policy
Collections Coordinator +44 (0) 1224 263439 collections@rgu.ac.uk
RGU Art & Heritage Collections has held Accredited Museum status since February 2009.
This is the UK industry standard for museums and galleries and is renewed every 5 years.
The contents of this site, including all images and text, are protected by copyright.
No copies of the digital images or text may be made except for personal use.
Personal use means non-commercial, domestic use by an individual making of single copies of each digital image.
All forms of commercial use are forbidden.
Electronic or print copies may not be offered, whether for sale or otherwise, to any third party.
Copyright is held by the Robert Gordon University, or by the artist or by other copyright holders.
Art & Heritage Collections, Robert Gordon University has made all reasonable efforts to ensure that the reproduction of content on these pages is done with the full consent of copyright holders.
If you feel that your copyright has not been fully respected, please email collections@rgu.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/assessment-policy-procedures:
The University’s Academic Regulations and Organisational Regulations provide the
regulatory framework for the conduct of summative assessment.
Assessment Policy PDF - 362KB DOWNLOAD Recording of Teaching and Learning Activities Policy PDF - 2MB DOWNLOAD Attendance and Engagement Policy 2025 PDF - 181KB DOWNLOAD
Guidance underpinning the Assessment Policy is owned by the Department of Academic Quality and Learning Enhancement and available on Moodle:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/bribery-act-2010:
With the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the university has taken steps to introduce appropriate procedures which are rigorously applied and reviewed to ensure that it is fully compliant with the provisions of the Bribery Act.
Our Anti-bribery and corruption statement is contained in the Ethics Policy.
This statement applies to any individual employee, agent or other person or body acting on behalf of Robert Gordon University.
Ethics Policy
Bribery Act Guidance

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/ram-and-budget-information:
The RAM forms the basis of the financial forecast, which in turn enables the University to formulate its financial strategy.
Student numbers, teaching grants and tuition fees are fed into the University's Resource Allocation Model (RAM) in order to calculate the funds available to each Faculty and the funds available to pay for central services, capital expenditure and long-term maintenance, special initiatives and research development.
The RAM also forms the basis of the financial forecast, which in turn enables the University to formulate its financial strategy.
Contact person: Mike Telford, extension 2606, m.telford@rgu.ac.uk
Before the start of each financial year, budgets are submitted and uploaded into CedAr.
They are used as a guideline for spending and also as performance indicators across the University.
The University's financial year runs from 1 August - 31 July; a budget must be submitted to Financial Services for all active objective codes, covering each financial year.
All budgets submitted will be uploaded to CedAr Financials prior to the start of a new financial year.
They will then be used to monitor income and expenditure within Schools and Departments throughout the year.
A detailed budget pack is required in order to prepare budgets for all ongoing activities within Schools and Departments in the forthcoming financial year.
Budget Template for 2021 - 2022
This pack contains detailed information on how to prepare a budget, information required to complete a budget, the University's financial structure, a guide to using the budget template and the allocation of salary costs within Schools and Departments.
The University has developed a standard budget template which must be completed for all budgets before submission to Financial Services.
Staff Expenses Policy
RGU Budget Instructions 2021-22
The template provides a list of the most frequently used income and expenditure subjective codes within the University.
Any queries you have in relation to the preparation of budgets can be directed to the appropriate member of staff within the team (as detailed in the pack).

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/criminal-conviction-declarations:
As part of the University's duty of care to its students and staff, we ask current and new students  who already attend or are due to join a campus-based course, to declare whether or not they have any 'relevant' criminal convictions.
Many other universities do the same.
Holding a conviction or having a pending case before the court does not prevent you from applying to study at RGU.
The University is committed to the fair treatment of students as far as possible throughout the application process and during their University experience.
If you have any questions or would like to find out why we collect this information, how we collect it, and what we do with it, please contact us in confidence at admissions@rgu.ac.uk .
At RGU we have a different process for those students which are joining us on a programme that requires a PVG check than those who do not.
If you've applied via UCAS or direct for a course that requires a PVG check, such as one that involves contact with vulnerable people, teaching, social work or medical related courses, you'll be asked to declare any spent or unspent convictions during the RGU or UCAS application process.
If you are to be made an offer for a course that requires a PVG check and have declared a conviction during the admissions process, the University will get in touch to discuss this with you.
If you require a PVG check for your course this will be arranged separately by your Department/School or the Admissions Team.
If you are already a student with the University, on a programme that requires you to hold a PVG and you have a pending or new conviction you should contact your department directly to discuss that declaration.
Our Student Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy details the list of PSRB programmes where disclosure is required at all times.
Student Criminal Charges and Convictions Policy
Please note: certain courses do not require a PVG to study but may lead to professions where professional registration to practise is required, such as law or accountancy.
Past convictions may be taken into account during the professional registration process.
If you are in any doubt please contact the registration body for the profession that you are interested in for information regarding their requirements.
An Unspent Criminal Conviction; which is a conviction, that would not yet be considered spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 or a criminal conviction arising outside of the UK where, had it occurred in the UK, would be considered unspent.
For the avoidance of doubt, as a Scottish University, the University adopts the rehabilitation rules as they apply in Scotland.
A conviction is spent when it has reached the specified amount of time after which it can be effectively ignored under the terms of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
Find out more information on when a conviction becomes spent:
When we reference a pending case, we mean a pending Criminal Charge, a formal accusation or investigation by a law enforcement authority relating to a relevant crime as detailed on this page.
The convictions, pending or otherwise which we consider relevant are:
​We don't class warnings, penalty notices for disorder (PNDs), anti-social behaviour orders (ASBOs) or violent offender orders (VOOs) as relevant convictions, unless you've contested a PND or breached the terms of an ASBO or VOO and this has resulted in a criminal conviction.
If your conviction involved an offence similar to those set out above, but was made by a court outside of Great Britain, and that conviction wouldn't be considered spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, you should declare it.
The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 enables some convictions to become 'spent' after a rehabilitation period.
The rehabilitation period varies depending on the sentence imposed by the court.
Custodial sentences of more than four years can never become spent.
We don't consider spent convictions to be relevant, and you shouldn't declare them.
There are four main reasons why we ask about criminal convictions:
We ask for information about relevant convictions from everyone who has accepted an offer of a place on a campus-based course that does not require its students to complete a PVG check.
Applicants for places on courses requiring a PVG check are normally asked in their original application to the University for information about all convictions, and declarations made there are investigated separately.
If you apply direct or via UCAS for one of our PSRB programmes then you are asked at the point of application to declare any conviction, pending or otherwise and this includes whether it is spent or unspent.
For those who apply for a programme which does not ask at application stage, for example, those joining us on an Engineering, Computing or Business related programme, you are required to declare using our secure online form:
If you are already an enrolled student on a PRSB programme and receive a conviction or are pending criminal proceedings you should contact your department to report this immediately.
If however you are a current student on any other programme and again receive a conviction or are pending criminal conviction proceedings you should declare this using our secure online form:
When you declare the concern to your department or via the declaration form you will be asked to provide specific details relating to the case or conviction.
This may include asking you for details of the offence and contact details of any social worker, probation officer or other professional who may be able to provide further relevant information.
We will only ever ask for information which directly relates to the pending or established conviction but having this prepared prior to making the declaration is advised as we are committed to providing the best support for all of our students and this allows us to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to give you the best chance of success.
When we receive your information, the Head of Admissions (or nominee) OR the University Solicitor (or nominee) will review it.
If they need more details from you, or a reference relating to your conviction, we'll let you know.
In most cases, they will be able to make a decision.
For more serious or complex convictions, they may refer a case to the University's Criminal Convictions Review Panel.
This is a group of senior University staff representing key service areas, for example the Director of Student Life and Head of Occupational Health and Environment,  who are able to assess the full range of potential support requirements and risks.
The panel facilitated by the Head of Admissions/University Solicitor who will arrange a panel to assess the risk, normally within 10 days from receipt of declaration and all required documents submitted.
When we have a decision, either from the Head of Admissions/University Solicitor or from the Criminal Convictions Review Panel, we'll let you know.
Usually, we'll be able to admit you without any adjustments.
Sometimes, we'll propose one or more support arrangements to help you make the transition to living and studying at the University.
For example, we might refer your case to our Inclusion Team to meet with you each semester.
Sometimes, we'll propose restrictions on your activities whilst at RGU, to mitigate any risks we've identified.
For example, we might propose that you don't engage in outreach or placement work with under 18s, or that you don't live in University accommodation.
Very occasionally, where we've identified a serious risk either to you or to other members of the University community that can't be mitigated by support arrangements or reasonable restrictions, we may have to withdraw our offer for entry to the University that year.
The details you supply about your conviction won't be added to your applicant or student record.
These will be stored in the named University email and filestore accounts of the staff reviewing your case only.
Your case is stored under a case number and not by name.
In most cases, the details you supply to us will be deleted from staff files after a specified period so The University will retain the information contained within the disclosure from the time of receipt for the following periods:
You can find more information about how we manage student records in our Privacy Notice .
If you have any other questions about applying with a criminal conviction or pending case that are not covered, please contact us at admissions@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/health-safety-management:
Health & Safety
Information on how health and safety is managed, how responsibility is defined and the roles and remits of committees, departments and individuals.
The University plans its health and safety activities at all levels, setting objectives, targets to meet the objectives and planning activities to meet the targets.
The Arrangements for Health and Safety Management is a sub-section of the Policy Statement for Health and Safety and includes:
Arrangements for Health and Safety Management
Guidance Notes for Inspecting Low Hazard Areas
Low Hazard Inspection Form
Proforma School & Dept Action Plan
Active Monitoring Procedure
Guidance Notes for Inspecting Medium and High Hazard Areas
Medium and High Hazard Inspection Form
Temporary Hazard Inspection Form
The Health and Safety Committee's purpose is to contribute to the provision by the university of a safe and secure environment for work, study and visit, both on- and off- campus, to ensure that the university’s reputation is of the highest standing relative to its strategic intent.
It will consider and advise the university on the health, safety and welfare aspects of all RGU policy, procedure and practice relating to staff, students, visitors, contractors and others within RGU campuses and related off-site activities.
Health and Safety Committee - Constitution
The responsibility for safety rests with everyone, from the Board of Governors and the Principal (Vice Chancellor) through to each individual member of staff, student, contractor and visitor.
This statement sets out responsibilities to support the principles of the Policy Statement for Health and Safety.
Other than the Health and Safety Committee, there are many bodies and individuals who support Safety Management at RGU, including information on the Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Department.
Health and Safety Management Structure
Supporting Safety Management
Each School and Department (including subsidiary businesses) will appoint one or more Health & Safety Co-ordinator to act as a conduit for health and safety information, and as a link between the School or Department and the OHES Department.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/information-governance:
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a new legal framework for data protection applying to all member states since 25 May 2018.
GDPR replaces the Data Protection Act 1998 and brings some new requirements on organisations that obtain, hold, use or store personal data.
Under Section 62 of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act, Scottish public authorities have a commitment of disclosure with regards to environmental information under the Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/about/governance/organisational-regulations:
Robert Gordon University (Scotland) Order of Council 2019

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/research/university-research-policies/research-involving-animals:
Research Governance
Animal research continues to make contributions to understanding health and developing modern medicines and surgical techniques.
It accounts for a small but essential part of RGU's research as the University remains committed to the principles of the 3Rs - reduction, refinement, and replacement, using the latest science and technologies to drive it forward.
There are strict laws that control animal research.
High standards of animal welfare underpin all of our research.
We aim to replace, reduce and refine research involving animals.
The Concordat on Openness in Animal Research is a set of commitments for UK-based Life Science organisations to enhance their animal research communications.
Experts at RGU have been conducting research to compile thorough case studies.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/students-union-code-of-practice:
Under Section 22 of the Education Act 1994 the Board of Governors must approve a Code of Practice detailing the steps taken by the University to ensure that it fulfils its obligations pursuant to the Act in relation to the Students’ Union.
The university is required under the provisions of the Education Act (1994) to provide students annually with notice of whether there have been:
In addition the university is required to inform students of the right of freedom of speech in universities and colleges, insofar as it relates to the activities of the Students’ Union.
It should be noted that the Students’ Union is a registered charity and as such is obliged to follow the provisions of charity law and the guidance of the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR) who publish information on the running of charities on the Office of the Scotland Charity Regulator's website.
Freedom of speech and the freedom of association are rights recognised and enshrined in the Human Rights Act (1998), a copy of the Act is available on the Government Legislation's website.
The university can confirm that during the 2013/14 academic session no changes were made either to the Code of Practice relating to the operation of the RGU Students’ Union or charity law that would affect the running of the Students’ Union.
Students Union Code of Practice

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/policies-procedures-guidance:
Aggressive and challenging behaviour at work is unacceptable and must be managed to ensure safety of staff.
The following pages provide information on how to deal with these situations.
RGU will ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that all workplaces remain free from unnecessary risks to health from the keeping and caring of animals by employees, students and visitors.
Asbestos is a group of naturally occurring, fibrous minerals that were once widely used in building materials.
Asbestos fibres are now recognized as a health hazard, particularly when inhaled.
Policies and procedures regarding the standards of health, safety, risks, welfare and data protection, associated with the presence of children and young persons on campus.
The introduction of contractors to RGU premises is necessary to support construction work and to provide infrastructure, equipment, or services to support RGU Events.
Chemicals exist everywhere in the workplace and as such require specific control measures to be in place to ensure they can be used and stored correctly.
Dangerous substances are substances that can put safety at risk from fire, explosion, and the corrosion of metal.
These risks need to be considered and managed in a specific way to comply with legal requirements.
Helping to identify and protect employees who regularly use DSE as a significant part of their normal work, which may be quantified as continuous periods of an hour or more for most days at work..
Robert Gordon University has a duty to ensure that all equipment it provides is suitable for its intended use and is maintained to ensure that it is safe.
A Counselling and Advisory Support Service is available through RGU's Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) which is provided by LifeWorks.
The service can be accessed via the free & confidential helpline 24 hours a day or through the LifeWorks app.
Many Schools and Departments organise events which either are not part of their routine activities and/or which invite members of the public into University buildings which require a higher level of safety management.
Everyone is exposed to hazards and risks when working or at study.
These risks are mitigated so far as is reasonably practicable for the majority of the population.
There are some situations when the consequence/severity of a hazard to a person may be different from everyone else.
One prominent example of this is for new and expectant mothers.
As part of research studies at the university, genetically modified organisms may be used.
Read more about our Genetic Modification Safety Committee (GMSC) and associated process.
Information on First Aid at Work including trained personnel
Robert Gordon University is committed to managing the risks from fire in its premises and complying with the requirements of the Fire (Scotland) Act 2005.
Lasers come in various shapes and forms and have many uses within teaching, research, shop checkouts, manufacturing, engineering and in office work.
Some activities require our staff to work outside of 'core' hours, when they are the only person in the building or during hours that buildings are closed.
Read more about the procedures and policies around these activities.
Procedures and measures to be taken in event of Communicable Disease incidents in the university population have been agreed with NHS Grampian's Health Protection Team (HPT).
Manual handling covers a wide variety of activities including lifting, lowering pushing, pulling and carrying.
If not done correctly it can result in work-related musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs).
Occupational health is the relationship between health and work.
For some people a health issue will affect their ability to work or the type of work they can do.
In other cases the work itself may have the potential to affect people's health.
Find out about the advice available at RGU, along with our procedures and policies.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that any plant, equipment, or machinery that is purchased for use complies to the specific regulated standards.
Robert Gordon University is committed to ensuring a safe and welcoming campus for all our staff, students and the wider community.
Procedures and measures to be taken following the end to the Public Health Emergency associated with COVID-19.
Health and safety risk assessment is the proper consideration of all work-related hazards persons are exposed to, and determining means to avoid these hazards, or reduce their likelihood/severity.
Slips and trips are the most common cause of major injuries at work and can happen almost anywhere.
One key expectation of students within higher education is to be equipped to be successful in the transition to employment at the end of their studies.
This is a key focus of Robert Gordon University and something it is celebrated for.
Advice to managers and staff on possible chemical or biological agents received by post
Advice, guidelines and procedures for travelling overseas for RGU business purposes.
Healthier workforces are more productive, and the Robert Gordon University recognises that an employer that takes the health and wellbeing of employees seriously reflects positively on the reputation and culture of the organisation.
Work at height involves work in a place where a person could be injured falling from it, even if it is at or below ground level.
Every year various Schools and Departments give secondary school pupils the chance to gain valuable work experience by working at the University, understand our simple steps to follow to ensure their health and safety.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/prevent-duty:
The 4 key principles of The UK Counter terrorism strategy (CONTEST) are:
Prevent is part of the UK Government CONTEST strategy that aims to stop people becoming terrorists or supporting terrorism.
Within universities Prevent is viewed as part of the overall safeguarding approach to an individual who is considered to be vulnerable, in this case from being drawn into terrorism.
Robert Gordon University has established a Prevent Working Group that will support the University comply with its statutory responsibility.
For our University the initial focus was on Prevent and now we are active in relation to Protect.
RGU will respond to the Prevent Duty via an open and collaborative approach, involving representatives from across our academic, professional services, students and faith communities.
Like other public bodies, Universities have a legal duty to “have due regard to prevent people from being drawn in to terrorism”.
This legal duty is called the ‘Prevent duty’
Prevent is about safeguarding people and communities from the threat of terrorism; and a Working Group has been established to ensure the university is doing everything it can to safeguard staff and students.
It is 1 of the 4 elements of CONTEST, the Government’s counter-terrorism strategy, and aims to stop people becoming involved with or supporting terrorist or extremist activity.
There are many definitions of extremism however it is generally considered to be the holding of extreme political or religious views.
Extremism affects individuals and communities, and can be a catalyst for alienation and disaffection, potentially leading to violence.
Extremist organisations can develop and popularise ideas and views which create an environment conducive to violence or terrorism.
We often hear on the news of people that have been radicalised and drawn into terrorist groups, but what does that mean?
In simple terms radicalisation is the process of someone developing extremist views.
The University has a duty to safeguard anyone believed to be at risk of being drawn into extremist or terrorist activity whether it relates to Islamist extremist ideology, extreme right wing groups and organisations, sectarianism, animal rights organisations or groups linked to Northern Irish related terrorism.
The University also has a duty to ensure staff, students and others are supported in how to respond to a concern through the provision of guidance, training and inter-agency working.
Frontline staff play a key part in helping the University recognise and safeguard anyone they consider to be vulnerable to being drawn into extremism.
Staff frequently build relationships with students and colleagues and are therefore in a strong position to recognise a change in someone they suspect relates to radicalisation.
It is important staff share their concern timeously with a colleague or supervisor, as well as one of the Universities Prevent points of contact who will provide guidance and support on next steps.
Contacts and protocols are available in the Raising a concern - Reporting Protocol section for further guidance.
There is no single route to radicalisation, and no one way of identifying whether or not someone is either at risk or in the process of being radicalised.
It can occur quickly, or take place over a longer timeframe.
Sometimes there are clear signs, and other times it might be subtle changes which are less obvious.
If you know the person well, you may recognise changes in their behaviour or attitude which feel out of character to you and which are unusual for that person.
The following are ONLY AN INDICATION of the types of changes which might give cause for concern.
If you have any concerns please refer to Raising a concern - Reporting Protocol for further guidance.
The RGU Prevent Working Group has oversight of the development of policy and procedures for Prevent.
Although not a new strategy, the placing of Prevent on a new statutory footing (the Prevent Duty) means that RGU must carefully embed Prevent in such a way that it ensures continuing freedom of speech, expression and debate while fulfilling it’s responsibility to safeguard anyone who may be vulnerable to extremism.
This work is ongoing however you may find the policy and guidance documents and in the Useful information and resources section helpful.
HEI Counter-Terrorism Security - Good Practice Guide
Prevent - Management of Speakers Protocol
RGU is currently offering staff the opportunity to attend a Workshop to Raise Awareness of Prevent (WRAP).
The workshop supports staff widen their understanding of Prevent and what their role would be if they are concerned about an individual.
The session lasts an hour and a half and it is strongly recommended staff with regular contact with students should to attend.
To book your place on one of our Workshops please contact prevent@rgu.ac.uk
Work is ongoing to finalise the referral process for Prevent concerns.
In the meantime, should you have a concern about an individual, you should share your concern timeously with a colleague or supervisor, or by emailing: prevent@rgu.ac.uk
Supporting free speech and the advancement of new ideas and open and free debate is fundamental to the role of universities.
However free speech is not an unqualified privilege, and the statutory obligations that support free speech and debate extend to external speakers.
The RGU Management of Speakers Policy outlines the practical steps that must be followed when inviting an external speaker onto campus.
The Universities UK External Speakers in Higher Education Institutions guidance also provides a framework for universities in managing external speakers, including those who may seek to express or promote extremist views:
Information on Prevent Lead, Prevent Coordinator, Prevent Working Group membership and Prevent SPOC’s in School, Departments, Campus Services, Institutes, Centres, RGU Sport etc

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/your-role-in-health-safety:
Find out the policies & procedures relevant to your role in the University
Display Screen Equipment (DSE) Helping to identify and protect employees who regularly use DSE as a significant part of their normal work, which may be quantified as continuous periods of an hour or more for most days at work..
Travelling with RGU Advice, guidelines and procedures for travelling overseas for RGU business purposes.
Telus Health Employee Assistance Programme is a telephone Counselling and Advisory Support Service, accessed via their free helpline (0800 169 1920), available 24/7 x 365, and is totally confidential.
You can also access through the Telus Health app, just email Staff Benefits for your unique code to join.
Risk Assessment Health and safety risk assessment is the proper consideration of all work-related hazards persons are exposed to, and determining means to avoid these hazards, or reduce their likelihood/severity.
Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Chemicals exist everywhere in the workplace and as such require specific control measures to be in place to ensure they can be used and stored correctly.
Dangerous Substances and Explosive Atmosphere Regulations Dangerous substances are substances that can put safety at risk from fire, explosion, and the corrosion of metal.
Electrical Safety Robert Gordon University has a duty to ensure that all equipment it provides is suitable for its intended use and is maintained to ensure that it is safe.
Procurement & Use of Work Equipment The University has a responsibility to ensure that any plant, equipment, or machinery that is purchased for use complies to the specific regulated standards.
Manual Handling Manual handling covers a wide variety of activities including lifting, lowering pushing, pulling and carrying.
Event Safety Many Schools and Departments organise events which either are not part of their routine activities and/or which invite members of the public into University buildings which require a higher level of safety management.
Laser Safety Lasers come in various shapes and forms and have many uses within teaching, research, shop checkouts, manufacturing, engineering and in office work.
Counselling & Wellbeing Studying at University is an exciting and rewarding experience.
Control of Contractors The introduction of contractors to RGU premises is necessary to support construction work and to provide infrastructure, equipment, or services to support RGU Events.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/fire-safety:
This commitment extends to Student Accommodation organised or operated by the University.
If a fire or fire related incident occurs on University premises please report this to Occupational Health and Environmental Safety:
Advice and assistance can be provided by the University's Fire Safety Adviser
Alan Fleming Fire Safety Adviser a.fleming3@rgu.ac.uk 01224 262082
In order to support the Fire Safety Policy, Robert Gordon University has developed Fire Safety and Fire Risk Management Procedures.
The purpose of these procedures is:
The procedure gives more details on the mechanisms in place to minimise the risk from fires including fire protection measures, fire risk assessments, procurement & maintenance of fire detection, evacuation and fighting equipment, etc.
Fire Safety and Fire Risk Management Procedures, Fire Safety Systems Testing Instructions and Log Sheets
Guidance on Emergency Evacuation
On an annual basis the University compiles statistics on fire related incidents, including the number of fire alarm activations, the number of fires and the attendance of the fire and rescue services.
These statistics form part of our annual return to the Universities Safety and Health Association (USHA), who promote safety and health within higher education.
Statistics within earlier documents are based on the calendar year, with latter data based on conversion to the academic year.
The university’s performance is better than average in all categories, other than we have a higher level of residential alarm activations.
This can be explained in part by the fact that at Robert Gordon University we record and report all alarm activations.
In addition we have very comprehensive alarm coverage and we have a robust, immediate response system in place.
The effectiveness of the system is reflected in the lower than average number of Fire Service attendances (10.1 as opposed to 39.1 / 1000 bedrooms) reported in the 2010 format.
It is essential that staff know what they have to do to safeguard themselves and others on the premises and that they have an awareness of the importance of their actions.
In the context of fire safety this includes risk reduction, maintenance of fire safety measures and action in event of a fire.
In order to meet our legal duties it is not only essential that all staff undergo this training but also that we, as an employer, can prove that this is the case.
As such, short e-learning tutorials on fire safety awareness and the use of fire extinguishers are available below.
The e-learning module and quiz will be compulsory for all staff within three months of employment and will be monitored and recorded by the OHES Department.
This will be achieved by an email on completion of the quiz.
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service provides information specifically for students and can organise free home fire safety visits.
All staff, students and visitors are asked to follow the standard instructions in the event of an emergency evacuation.
These instructions are printed on 'Emergency Evacuation Information' signs throughout all buildings and are provided below.
The only exceptions are those staff who have been given specific duties in the event of an alarm.
Disabled Refuge Points are fitted with Communication Systems enabling the position of a disabled evacuee to be identified and verbal contact to be maintained with the reception desk.
Copies of instructions for Refuge Communication Points are displayed adjacent to the system in the stairwell refuge:
Refuge Communication Point
Where necessary, information for visitors regarding Fire Safety can be provided:
Information for Visitors - Fire Evacuation
Staff that have been tasked with specific duties in event of a fire are titled Evacuation Stewards, Evacuation Co-ordinators and Evacuation Chair Operators.
Evacuation Steward - Role
Evacuation Chair Operator - Role
Evacuation Co-ordinator - Role
Following every fire alarm activation, with the exception of the weekly test, the Alarm Activation Report is to be completed by the Janitor responsible for the site.
The Estates Campus Support Officer should complete a copy if an activation occurs out-of-hours.
The completion of the Report will assist in determining if the evacuation proceeded smoothly and if there are any lessons that can be learned.
In addition, it will highlight any deficiencies in the fire safety hardware within the building which requires repair.
As a result, a copy is to be forwarded to both the Maintenance Manager (Estates and Property Services) and the OHES Department.
Alarm Activation Report Form
Robert Gordon University has a duty to ensure that all building occupants can evacuate from any of the University buildings in the event of an emergency situation.
It is not acceptable to rely on rescue of persons by the Fire and Rescue Service.
As a result, the University has developed procedures to ensure that persons with disabilities who require assistance to evacuate University buildings are given all such assistance in order that they can reach a place of safety.
This procedure puts responsibilities on Schools and Departments to produce, if necessary, Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans (PEEPs) to ensure that both staff and students are given all necessary assistance.
Procedure for Implementation of Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans
The PEEP procedure refers to a questionnaire to be completed by the disabled person either alone or with an appropriate member of University staff.
Fire Questionnaire for people with disabilities
Once the questionnaire is completed, then the PEEP can be developed.
It has to be emphasised that the PEEP has to be developed with the input of the disabled person.
They will have the best knowledge as to how their condition affects them and they will know the most effective methods of assistance that they require.
PEEP Template for Completion
In order to assist in the production and development of a PEEP, the PEEP Guidance document outlines some factors to consider when developing and implementing a PEEP, as well as giving some general guidance.
Again, it cannot be stressed enough that the input of the disabled person is crucial to the development of a successful PEEP.
Further advice can be sought from the Inclusion and Occupational Health and Safety Departments.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/first-aid:
The Health and Safety (First-Aid) Regulations 1981 require employers to provide adequate and appropriate equipment, facilities and personnel to ensure their employees receive immediate attention if they are injured or taken ill at work.
Robert Gordon University has suitably trained personnel to provide First Aid at work.
To contact a first aider, visit or dial your location building reception.
Where First Aid is administered, these events should be reported to the Health and Safety Department via the Accident and Incident Reporting pages.
First Aid Procedure PDF - 843KB DOWNLOAD First Aid Guidance - First Aider Duties PDF - 776KB DOWNLOAD First Aid Guidance - Infant Feeding Guidance PDF - 780KB DOWNLOAD First Aid Form - First Aid Box Checksheet DOCX - 66KB DOWNLOAD First Aid Form - Course Booking form DOCX - 89KB DOWNLOAD

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/health-and-safety/health-and-safety-contacts:
The Occupational Health and Environmental Safety (OHES) team has the responsibility of providing expert advice and assistance to support Schools, Departments and Research Institutes in the implementation of their responsibilities within the University Health and Safety Management System.
The OHES team's functions are:
Clinton Grant Head of People, Risk and Wellbeing This email address is being protected from spambots.
Douglas Downie Occupational Health and Safety Adviser This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lucy MacKenzie Fire Safety Adviser This email address is being protected from spambots.
Head of People, Risk and Wellbeing
Occupational Health and Safety Adviser
Fire Safety Adviser
The main activities involved with this role include, but are not limited to:
The competency requirement of this role is (or working towards) the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health Level 3 Award in Health and Safety, provided via the OHES department.
Hayley Christie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hayley Christie's staff profile Karen Cross Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Karen Cross's staff profile Louise McDowell School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Louise McDowell's staff profile
Charlee Riley Technical Services Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Technical Services Co-ordinator
Christine Lauterbach School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Christine Lauterbach's staff profile Fiona Logie Clinicial Skills Centre Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Clinicial Skills Centre Manager
Christopher Bell Operations Development Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
James Christie Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ian Croft Policy & Information Governance Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Niki Cruickshank PA and Project Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Simon Hall Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tracy Leach Departmental Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gregor Mailer Chief Executive Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Mansfield Marketing & Comms Admin Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stephen Marwick Grounds Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chris Moule Head of Entrepreneurship and Innovation This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ramona Popa Research Development Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Morag Reid Procurement Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Russell Print Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Niki Scott Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Thornton Management Accountant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daniel Warren Academic Support Librarian This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Williams Deputy Director This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ross Wilson Academic Support Librarian This email address is being protected from spambots.
Duncan Young Planning Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Operations Development Manager
Policy & Information Governance Manager
PA and Project Officer
Departmental Administrator
Chief Executive Officer
Marketing & Comms Admin Co-ordinator
Grounds Supervisor
Head of Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research Development Administrator
Procurement Co-ordinator
Print Supervisor
Administrator
Management Accountant
Academic Support Librarian
Deputy Director
Planning Manager

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/campus-map:
Transport and Parking
Set on the banks of the River Dee, the RGU campus is based at Garthdee, Aberdeen.
All our learning facilities are positioned in this area meaning you always have easy access to teaching and the wider student services.
RGU Campus Map
If you are planning a journey and finding your way to a specific room at our campus, then you may find this interactive campus map useful.
This tool has been created by RGU computing students in collaboration with the estates team, find out more on RGView:
Find our full postal addresses of the University if you're travelling by car and using SatNav to find us.
The campus is well served by a number of bus routes, with bus number 1 and 2 regularly visiting campus from the City Centre.
Aberdeen also has excellent transport links allowing easy travel to the rest of the UK and further afield by air, train or car:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/parking-on-campus:
Parking permit restrictions are enforced from 8:00 – 16:00, Monday – Friday.
A parking permit will be required for staff and students in order to park on campus.
Visitors should register in advance or at reception on the day.
If parking on campus outside of enforcement times, the RGU Parking Policy still applies.
Please park within the standard white lined parking spaces.
Parking within a disabled bay is strictly for blue badge holders only.
Overnight parking is not permitted.
Please be mindful that domestic transport is currently Scotland’s largest source of CO2 emissions at over 25% .
In planning your travel to campus, have you considered the following options for travelling to RGU?
Whether using your own vehicle, bike, motorbike, hire vehicle or one of the university fleet vehicles, every driver is subject to the University Parking Regulations and guidance on Driving on Campus.
Drop off zones at each building allow drivers to drop off passengers or heavy equipment.
These have a maximum waiting time of 15 minutes and are outlined in blue paint.
The visitor spaces designated at all buildings on the Garthdee campus, which are outlined in red and are non-bookable, operating on a first-come-first-served basis.
Visitors should register their vehicle in advance whenever possible, through the person they are meeting.
If a vehicle hasn't been registered in advance, all visitors must report to the building's reception where they will be registered for a one-day visitor permit.
RGU staff or students cannot register as visitors.
If all the designated visitor spaces are occupied, a visitor can park in a white standard permit holder space on the campus but their vehicle must be registered as a visitor.
The Board of Governors have declared a commitment to ensure that those who have mobility impairments have every possible assistance in accessing University premises for the purpose of academic study and employment.
Parking bays for the mobility impaired are located as near as possible to the most appropriate entrance to the University buildings.
Staff or Students who are holders of a blue badge are permitted to park in any recognised disabled parking bay throughout the University.
A Blue Badge permit is required, but there is no charge for parking on campus with this type of permit.
Any member of staff or student who has a temporary mobility impairment, but is not eligible for a blue badge, can apply for a permit under the "exceptional circumstances" clause.
Accessible parking for blue badge holders is dispersed throughout the campus.
The University recognises the importance of well-designed, clearly signposted accessible parking and have a map to help plan your journey.
Accessible parking bays are located in close proximity to the entrances and exits of our buildings.
Any student or staff members who wishes to park at the Garthdee campus must have a parking permit.
There are a limited number of permits available for the Garthdee campus.
Any student can apply for a permit, but priority will be given to those who live furthest from the University.
Student & staff parking permits are open for a limited time window only which will be communicated to all students and staff via email.
After this window closes, there will be no further opportunity that year to apply for a parking permit, unless you are a new member of staff joining RGU.
Information on how to apply is emailed to all students and staff via their RGU email address.
If you have enrolled, you will be able to access RGyoU for further information including the dates of when you can apply:
An RGU email is required for a permit, so students will be unable to apply until you are enrolled.
If parking on campus, the RGU Parking Policy still applies.
Staff and students with permits should park within the standard white lined parking spaces.
Robert Gordon University operates a car sharing scheme as part of its Green Travel Plan to encourage the reduction of vehicles travelling to its sites.
The aims of the Car Share scheme are:
Priority is given to those who choose to car share.
To encourage car sharing, dedicated car share bays will be available near each building on the Garthdee Campus.
Car sharing is when two or more registered drivers, who reside at different addresses, share the journey to and from the University by car.
A car share team can include both staff and students.
Applications for car share permits are open at the same time as staff and returning students, and new students will have the opportunity to apply once they have received their enrolment information and RGU login details.
Information on how to apply has been emailed to all staff and students RGU email addresses, however if you have not received this email transport@rgu.ac.uk .
For those who do not already have a Car Share partner, Robert Gordon University work with a Scotland wide Liftshare scheme who offer an online search facility to help you find someone to share with.
Even if you are not a car driver, you can still use the online search facility to find someone to share the journey with.
The University reserves the right to allocate a parking permit to an individual, either staff or student, in exceptional circumstances due to the driver's own ill health or disability.
Permits issued under exceptional circumstances will be charged at the same rate as standard parking permits.
The Inclusion Centre can support you with exceptional circumstances parking if you meet the criteria:
We cannot support exceptional circumstances parking for reasons relating to:
Applications under exceptional circumstances will be assessed by HR (staff) or Inclusion (student).
If approved, permits will then be issued by Transport.
Applicants should complete the form and submit to their HR advisor (staff) or via AskRGU (student).
Exceptional Circumstances Application Form
You should submit all other requests to – transport@rgu.ac.uk
You’re disabled under the Equality Act 2010 if you have a physical or mental impairment that has a ‘substantial’ and ‘long-term’ negative effect on your ability to do normal daily activities.
There are special rules about recurring or fluctuating conditions , eg arthritis.
RGU has a Parking Policy in place which manages parking on campus.
All vehicles parked on campus must be displaying a valid RGU Parking Permit and must be parked within a designated parking bay.
Parking Policy
Any vehicle parked in contravention of the Parking Policy is liable to a £50 Parking Charge Notice (PCN).
An Aberdeen City Council controlled parking zone is in operation around the Garthdee residential area from 10am - 4pm Monday to Friday.
Outwith these hours parking is not restricted other than by the regulations set out in the Highway Code.
Residential permits and business permits are available for people who reside or have a business within the Garthdee CPZ.
Anyone without an Aberdeen City Council permit must display a valid voucher in their vehicle and must park in one of the designated areas.
Alternatively, there are a number of locations within the Garthdee area in which staff/students can now park using the Pay by Phone App.
There are only certain areas around the Garthdee CPZ in which voucher holders can park, these are areas marked 'Resident/Voucher Parking'.
Voucher holders cannot park in areas marked 'Resident permit holders only'.
Please read any signage carefully.
The CPZ will be monitored and enforced by Aberdeen City Council and Vehicles not displaying a valid permit/voucher during operational period will be issued with an excess charge notice which is currently £60.
RGU Garthdee Parking CPZ
This map is not currently in an accessible format ,please contact transport@rgu.ac.uk if you need information about the local parking areas.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/bus:
Taking the bus is a cost effective way of travelling to campus and is more sustainable than driving your own vehicle.
Under 22's can access FREE bus travel throughout Scotland.
First Aberdeen services 1 & 2 operate between the City Centre and the Garthdee Campus on a regular basis.
For full information on timetables, ticket types, journey planners and space checkers:
Stagecoach offers services throughout Scotland, Aberdeenshire, to and from the Airport, and to the centre of Aberdeen city where you can catch a connecting bus to campus.
They also offer reasonably priced student rates and mobile ticketing options:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/cycling:
Commuting to campus by bike has multiple benefits:
For all these reasons, RGU is looking to increase the numbers of staff and students that adopt cycling as their main way to travel to campus.
A cycling strategy is currently being developed to support this as well as long-term decision-making.
The RGU campus is easily reached by bike from the city centre and student accommodations, being less than 5 miles away.
All routes start on Union Street but each has different characteristics:
The routes can be displayed in the map by enabling them via the sidebar menu.
Routes from student accommodations to Union Street and access points along the old Deeside Way Railway Line can also be enabled in the map.
To see more detailed instructions on how to use the map, start by clicking on the blue icon within the map
More experienced cyclist may choose to use alternative routes.
Route planning websites and applications may help you find the best way to campus.
Each has different features and it is useful to try them and see which one works best – it is often a personal choice.
The Transport department can also prepare free personalised travel plan, giving a range of options for cycling and others.
The results include interactive maps and information on travel times, bus routes, cost, CO2 emissions and calories burned for all modes of travel.
Email transport@rgu.ac.uk to get your personalised travel plan.
There are a number of options to get a bike and start cycling to campus.
Bikes can be hired by staff and student from RGU GoGreen’s BikePad on a semester or academic year-long basis.
The hire also includes a helmet, lights, high-vis jacket and lock - all the equipment required to be road ready.
A city-wide bike hire scheme is also launching in future, more information will be available closer to the scheme launch.
Aberdeen has a wide choice of local bike shops as well as national shops.
Energy Saving Trust offers an eBike Loan every year, which can be used to purchase e-bikes, cargo bikes or adapted cycles.
RGU staff can also benefit from the Cycle to Work scheme , which is available to purchase bikes and accessories while saving an average of 36% on their cost.
Purchasing second-hand bikes can also be an option to keep costs low.
Bike parking is available across campus and include a mix of unsheltered, sheltered and secure parking, as well as bike lockers in selected locations.
More information on secure bike parking access can be obtained by emailing Transport  - transport@rgu.ac.uk
Showers, changing rooms and lockers are available in most buildings, with some facilities for staff only.
Further information about our facilities:
Bike thefts have been increasing nationwide in recent years and also during lockdowns.
It is essential that you secure your bike when parking it on campus.
Police Scotland provides good advice on how to securely lock bikes and what preventive measures can be taken, including what can be done to getting bikes back in the unfortunate event they do get stolen.
RGU provides secure parking in selected locations on campus, with limited and protected access.
Support and advice are available for those who want to cycle to campus.
Cycling Scotland’s Essential Cycling Skills Guide and Bike-Ability core function videos have helpful information for those new to cycling.
Moreover, Cycling UK also provides information about road cycling signs.
The university has a Campus Cycling Officer who works to improve cycling conditions across the campus and can help with enquiries, email transport@rgu.ac.uk
RGU also has a Bike User Group that brings together staff and students cycling to campus or generally interested in cycling: this is a good place to ask questions and even socialise with like-minded people.
The University also holds events such as led cycle rides (for route planning), Dr Bike and Fix It Yourself (bike maintenance training), funding dependent.
More information will be added to this page when further event details are available.
In the meanwhile, it is a good idea to follow RGU main social media channels, including RGU Union and RGU SPORT, to receive updates for one-off events that may be planned:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/train:
Students travelling to Aberdeen by train can save 1/3 on their rail fares by purchasing a 16-25 Railcard (available to full-time students of all ages) for £30 per year.
If you are travelling from Aberdeen Rail Station, you can add a PlusBus ticket to your train ticket, giving you unlimited bus travel around Aberdeen.
Bus numbers 1 or 2 are covered by this and take you straight to the Garthdee Campus.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/transport-and-parking/air-travel:
Several airlines operate direct scheduled flights to Aberdeen, from UK and European airports, which include
The Stagecoach 727 services operates a regular frequency from the airport to the city centre and will take approximately 35 minutes (longer at peak times).
From the city centre to Garthdee, the number 1 or 2 First buses will take you to the Garthdee campus.
A taxi from the airport to Garthdee will take approximately 25 minutes (longer at peak times).

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/rgusport/what-s-on-prices-and-timetables:
Book Online
Timetable for 18 August - 21 December 2025 Monday 08:30 - 09:15 , Pilates in Motion, studio 1 09:30 - 10:30 , Pilates, studio 1 12:15 - 13:15 , Vinyasa Yoga, studio 1 12:30 - 13:15, Pilates, studio 3a 17:30 - 18:15 , Indoor Cycling, studio 3 17:30 - 18:30 , Power Pilates, studio 1 17:35 - 18:20 , Zumba, studio 3A 18:40 - 19:40 , Yin Yoga, studio 1 Tuesday 07:30 - 08:30 , Yoga for Sport, studio 1 09:30 - 10:30 , Pilates, studio 1 11:15 - 12:00 , Aqua Aerobics, the pool 12:30 - 13:15 , Slow Flow Pilates, studio 1 13:00- 14:00 , Cardiac Rehab, studio 3A* 17:30 - 18:00 , HIITSTEP, studio 3A 18:00 - 18:45 , Barre Fitness, studio 1 18:10 - 18:55 , Body Pump, studio 3A 19:05 - 20:05 , Restorative Yoga, studio 1 Wednesday 08:55 - 09:55 , Chillates, studio 1 10:45 - 11:45 , Cardiac Rehab, studio 3A* 11:00 - 11:45 , Aqua Aerobics, the pool 12:00 - 13:00 , Technogym, the gym 12:15 - 13:00 , Body Pump, studio 3A 13:00 - 14:00 , Yin Yoga, studio 1 17:20 - 18:05 , Indoor Cycling, studio 3 17:45 - 18:30 , Body Step, studio 3A 18:25 - 19:25 , Pilates, studio 1 18:45 - 19:30 , Body Pump, studio 3A Thursday 09:30 - 10:30 , Pilates, studio 1 10:40 - 11:40 , Yoga for Every Body, studio 1 11:50 - 12:35, Steady and Ready, studio 3A 12:30 - 13:30 , Yoga, studio 1 17:25 - 18:10 , Total Body Workout, studio 3A 17:35 - 18:20 , Body Balance, studio 1 18:00 - 18:45 , Indoor Cycling, studio 3 18:25 - 19:10 , Zumba, studio 3A 18:30 - 19:30 , Yin Yoga, studio 1 Friday 07:30 - 08:15, Pilates, studio 1 09:30 - 10:30 , Chillates, studio 1 11:00 - 11:45 , Aqua Zumba, the pool 12:15 - 13:00 , Body Pump, studio 3A 17:20 - 18:05 , Yoga, studio 1 17:30 - 18:15 , Panache Dance, studio 3A Saturday 08:45 - 09:30 , Indoor Cycling, studio 3 09:45 - 10:45 , Pilates, studio 1 10:00 - 10:45 , Body Attack, studio 3A 10:55 - 11:25 , Core Strength, studio 3A Sunday 10:00-10:45 , Barre Fitness, studio 1 13:00 - 14:00 , Strength and Stretch *To book a space for Cardiac Rehab, please email rgusportenquiries@rgu.ac.uk Please note there is no 12:30 Pilates on 17 November and no Body bump 19 September.
All classes are bookable through our website however if you have any questions, please contact rgusportenquiries@rgu.ac.uk
*To book a space for Cardiac Rehab, please email rgusportenquiries@rgu.ac.uk
Please note there is no 12:30 Pilates on 17 November and no Body bump 19 September.
Pool rules and lane etiquette apply.
Bookings are subject to change, please refer to notices on MyRGUSPORT on plasma screens throughout the facility and on social media for regular updates.
Timetable for 18 August - 21 December 2025 Monday 06:00-07:30, 3 lanes clubs, 3 lane swimming 07:30-09:00, 6 lane swimming 09:00-10:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 10:00-11:00, 3 lanes Nursery, 1 lane swimming, 2 lanes open swim 11:00-15:30, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 15:30-17:30, 6 lanes Learn to Swim 17:30-20:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 20:00-21:00, 6 lane swimming 21:00-22:00, 6 lanes clubs Tuesday 06:00-07:30, 2 lanes clubs, 4 lane swimming 07:30-09:00, 6 lane swimming 09:00-11:15, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 11:15-12:00, 6 lanes Aqua Aerobics 12:00-16:30, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 16:30-17:30, 3 lanes clubs, 3 lanes open swim 17:30-19:30, 6 lanes Learn to Swim 19:30-20:30, 3 lanes clubs, 3 lane swimming 20:30-21:30, 2 lanes staff training, 4 lane swimming 21:30-22:00, 6 lane swimming Wednesday 06:00-09:00, 6 lane swimming 09:00-11:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 11:00-11:45, 2 lane swimming, 4 lanes Aqua Aerobics 11:45-13:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 13:00-14:00, 6 lane female only 14:00-15:30, 6 lanes clubs 15:30-17:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 17:00-18:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lanes swimming 18:00-19:30, 6 lanes clubs 19:30-20:30, 2 lanes clubs, 4 lane swimming 20:30-22:00, 6 lane swimming Thursday 06:00-07:30, 3 lanes clubs, 3 lanes swimming 07:30-09:00, 6 lane swimming 09:00-11:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 11:00-12:00, 2 lanes staff training, 1 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 12:00-15:30, 3 lane swimming, 3 lane open swim 15:30-17:30, 6 lanes Learn to Swim 17:30-20:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 20:00-22:00, 6 lanes clubs Friday 06:00-07:30, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 07:30-09:00, 6 lane swimming 09:00-11:00, 6 lanes schools 11:00-11:45, 2 lane swimming, 4 lanes Aqua Zumba 11:45-16:30, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 16:30-19:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 19:00-19:30, 2 lanes clubs, 4 lane swimming 19:30-20:00, 6 lane swimming 20:00-21:00, 6 lanes clubs 21:00-22:00, 6 lane swimming Saturday 08:00-09:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 09:00-12:00, 6 lanes Learn to Swim 12:00-13:00, 6 lanes Family Swim 13:00-15:00, 3 lanes clubs, 1 lane swimming, 2 lanes open swim Sunday 08:00-10:00, 3 lane swimming, 3 lanes open swim 10:00-12:00, 6 lane family swim 12:00-14:00, 4 lanes clubs, 2 lane swimming 14:00-15:00, 6 lane swimming Find out more information about our learn to swim programme
Climbing Wall Monday : 06:00 - 17:00 Tuesday : 06:00 - 17:00 and 19:00 - 22:00, discount climbing in the evening Wednesday : 06:00 - 13:00, 16:00 - 17:00 and 20:00 - 22:00 Thursday : 06:00 - 17:00 and 20:00 - 22:00 Friday : 06:00 - 16:30 and 18:30 - 22:00 Saturday : 08:00 - 9:00 and 13:30 - 15:00 Sunday : 08:00 - 15:00 Bouldering Room Monday : 06:00 - 17:00 Tuesday : 06:00 - 22:00 Wednesday : 09:00 - 12:00 and 16:00 - 17:00 Thursday : 06:00 - 22:00 Friday : 06:00 - 14:00 and 19:00 - 22:00 Saturday : 13:30 - 15:00 Sunday : 09:00 - 15:00 Please note, we are open to external bookings which can mean the wall closes at certain periods of time to the public.
We advise that you call us on 01224 263666 if you’re travelling to us from afar to ensure the wall is free.
Please note, we are open to external bookings which can mean the wall closes at certain periods of time to the public.
For all information including details about our climbing courses and clubs:
A great chance to enhance your physical social and mental wellbeing as well as being able to meet new people.
Our recreational activities are open to all community participants, staff and students and are open to all abilities.
Please note, we are open to external bookings for the climbing wall and bouldering wall, which can mean the wall closes at certain periods of time to the public.
Download the latest price list
RGU SPORT Price list 2025-2026
Monthly, Direct Debit and Annual members receive unlimited gym and swim for their appropriate membership.
Find out how much you can save by becoming an RGU SPORT member.
Contact RGU SPORT by phone, email or through social media

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs/current-vacancies:
Jobs at RGU
Current Vacancies Part Time Lecturer in Diagnostic Radiography Salary: £39,906- £56,535 Closing Date: 31 Aug 2025 View Details Part Time Lecturer in Diagnostic Radiography Careers Consultant Salary: £39,987- £43,163 Closing Date: 07 Sep 2025 View Details Careers Consultant Fixed Term Research Assistant/Fellow in Haemostasis & Thrombosis Salary: £35,608- £46,049 Closing Date: 07 Sep 2025 View Details Fixed Term Research Assistant/Fellow in Haemostasis & Thrombosis Admissions Administrator Salary: £26,093- £28,778 Closing Date: 14 Sep 2025 View Details Admissions Administrator
Salary: £39,906- £56,535
Closing Date: 31 Aug 2025
Salary: £39,987- £43,163
Closing Date: 07 Sep 2025
Salary: £35,608- £46,049
Salary: £26,093- £28,778
Closing Date: 14 Sep 2025
Follow RGU Jobs LinkedIn - @RGUJobs Twitter - @RGUJobs Facebook - RGUJobs

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs/application-advice:
Take time to prepare and understand what we expect to see in your application documents.
Our jobs are always advertised on:
If you decide to apply for a job with us, you will need to register for an account on myjobscotland or login if you have an existing account.
This website is also used by councils across Scotland and other public sector organisations, so you can use the same account if you have applied to any of these organisations previously.
You can save your application and come back to it at any time.
We are seeing an increasing number of CVs and application form responses that have been generating using AI and will shortly be implementing software to run AI checks.
Please avoid using AI and show us your true self.
Depending on the role, we usually ask for applications in one of two ways:
Your CV presents the first opportunity to truly impress, so make sure it's up to date, easy to read and paints an accurate picture of your most relevant skills and experience for the job.
This might mean you have to tailor the order and focus for different jobs to ensure the hiring manager can quickly see relevant information.
As a general guide:
Your cover letter is your opportunity to identify how you meet the essential education, knowledge, experience and any behavioural requirements of the role detailed in the person specification.
The CV guidance provided still applies for roles requiring CV, together with an application form.
When we provide an application form, we break down the key requirements of the role into four sections and ask you to respond to them individually:
These correspond directly to the requirements on the person specification, which you should take time to study and highlight any relevant experience/achievements, as directed in the cover letter section.
If you have completed an application with RGU previously, it may copy over the last responses you completed.
Do not be tempted to leave this content without reviewing it, as the requirements for the current job are unlikely to be the same.
When providing evidence against the behaviours, be sure to read the guidance in the application.
In this section, we are specifically looking for examples of situations you have experienced that demonstrate that behaviour/competency.
So, if you were asked to demonstrate how you have provided exceptional service to a customer:
You will notified by email that your application has been received and all future communication will be sent by email.
Once the closing date has passed, applications will be reviewed by the hiring manager and you will normally be contacted within 10 working days to either invite you to interview, or advise if you have been unsuccessful.
Due to the volume of applications we receive, we regret that we are unable to provide feedback as to why you have been unsuccessful.
In some circumstances, you may be invited to interview before the closing date has passed, although final decisions will only be made once all applicants have been reviewed.
If you have been selected for interview, you will usually be invited to choose a convenient interview slot.
Once a slot has been selected, you will receive a confirmation email with further details of the interview, but you can generally expect a number of questions around your relevant experience for the role, as well as a series of behavioural questions.
You can find the behaviours in the person specification for the role and you will be asked to provide examples of situations you have experienced, that demonstrate each of the behaviours.
The majority of our interviews are held on campus with panels of 2-4 interviewers, but if you have any special requirements for the interview, you will be provided with contact details in your invitation to arrange this.
Applicants will be notified of the outcome within 5 working days of the interview, but the hiring manager would normally aim to contact successful applicants within 24-48 hours to make a verbal offer and agree a provisional start date.
A formal contract will follow by email as soon as possible.
We will always ask you to complete a diversity questionnaire so that we can continue to monitor our efforts to improve diversity.
This information will only be used for statistical purposes and is not seen by anyone involved in the selection process.
Your application will not be affected if you choose not to complete this form.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs/rewards-benefits:
Whilst our range of wellbeing, transport, childcare and retail benefits support your day to day life, our generous pension contributions will help you plan for your future.
In this continuously challenging financial climate, we ensure staff are supported through our financial wellbeing hub where they can access financial advice, debt consolidation services, savings scheme and giving through payroll.
We also provide a retail discount site where staff can make significant savings across a range of national, local and online shops.
Jointly agreed by the University and the local Trade Union Representatives (UCU, Unison, EIS), this statement confirms the University’s commitment to ensuring fair working practices are in place in support of the Scottish Government’s ‘Fair Work First’ policy.
We understand that childcare is a significant outlay for working parents.
That’s why we’ve done everything we can to support our working families.
Our on site nursery, the Treehouse Nursery .
is an outstanding purpose built facility run by Bright Horizons, an internationally recognised childcare provider.
Your child will benefit from the highest quality care from 3 months to 5 years of age, and you can enjoy the convenience of a single journey to work and nursery.
Our salary sacrifice scheme also means you can reduce your entire childcare costs by 35-42%.
RGU SPORT is currently host to Kings Camps , one of the largest providers of holiday childcare in the UK.
Staff receive discount on holiday childcare which runs daily during Easter, Summer and October holidays.
We are committed to encouraging the use of sustainable transport and operate tax efficient schemes for purchasing new bikes and equipment, discounted bus tickets and loans for annual train tickets.
RGU is accredited by the Living Wage Foundation and therefore commits to be a real Living Wage employer.
The real Living Wage is the only UK wage rate based on the cost of living and ensures employees are paid a wage that meets the cost of living, and not just the Government minimum.
Browse our staff interviews on the RGU Jobs Blog to learn what it’s like to live and work in this leading university in a unique part of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs/our-diverse-workforce:
Inclusivity starts with attracting and engaging a diverse range of staff, ensuring the University, at every level, reflects the communities in which we live and work.
But it doesn’t stop there.
We aim to foster a culture where everyone feels welcome, comfortable to express their ideas and reach their full potential.
Armed with greater awareness and understanding, our staff are better equipped to keep conversations flowing around equality, diversity and inclusion issues.
In this short video, Emmanuel Akerele (Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Adviser), Leila Mokadem (Race Staff Equality Champion) and Vikki Taylor (HR Business Partner & HR Race Equality Champion) discuss the importance of EDI training for all at RGU.
Whilst education lays the foundations and we are making progress, we know there is still work to be done.
For example, we are examining why some equality strands are not represented at a senior level in the University as well as reviewing our succession planning and promotions processes to encourage all staff to work towards and apply for promoted posts.
This important work is channelled through our EDI Advisor and supported by the action groups, networks, events and partnerships.
We value the breadth of experience and perspectives in our staff community.
You can hear about different job roles from a few of our staff in the RGU Voices series as well the attractions of RGU and the Aberdeen area in our 60 second interviews.
Our Equality Action Groups bring together colleagues from across the university to help shape our targets into actions and our actions into results.
The action groups ensure we are held accountable for the commitments we make for making equality, diversity and inclusion a priority across the business.
However you identify, we have a range of staff networks that offer a safe space to  meet new people, find support and social events on and off campus.
The networks are self managed, independent and impartial.
We appreciate that there are many diverse cultural, celebration and awareness events throughout the year that are great opportunities for us to learn more about the things that matter to our staff and students.
We hold and support many of these events and campaigns throughout the year such as Black History Month, International Women’s Day and Pride Month.
We partner with organisations who are experts in specific areas of diversity to ensure we stay connected, informed and true to our goals.
RGU is an approved, ‘Disability Confident’ Employer which means we are working with the government to remove barriers, increase understanding and ensure that disabled people have the opportunities to fulfil their potential and realise their aspirations.
We aim to remove the barriers for working families by examining every job to see what flexible working arrangements are possible and openly advertising this by using the ‘Happy to Talk Flexible Working’ logo on appropriate roles.
Aurora is a women-only leadership development programme which brings together leadership experts and higher education institutions to take positive action to address the under-representation of women in leadership positions.
The Athena Swan Charter recognises good practice in promoting gender equality in higher education and the University is committed to the principles of the charter.
It offers a valuable framework to identify inclusive organisational and cultural practices, celebrate progress and most importantly, address barriers to gender equality.
Denis Law Legacy Trust is a registered charity that in partnership with Robert Gordon University, delivers free sports and activity sessions for young people, 5 nights a week, 50 weeks a year.
The programme aims to: reduce instances of youth crime and anti-social behaviour; improve health and wellbeing; and encourage inclusivity through sport, physical activity and creative endeavour.
The University expects all employees, staff and visitors to take responsibility for the active promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion.
Our EDI Policy sets out clear roles and responsibilities in this regard.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/jobs/relocating-to-aberdeen:
Our sparkling city of Aberdeen, in the North-east of Scotland, is the happiest city in the UK to live and work in (Shawbrook Bank 2021).
Wherever you are relocating from, we’ve pulled together the best of the information available to help you make this transition.
Set between the rivers Don and Dee in the North-East of Scotland, Aberdeen, with a population of c.
228,000, is the best Scottish city in which to live and work, according to The Good Growth for Cities Index 2021 run by Demos-PwC.
Celebrated for its proximity to the sea and its famous, silvery, sparkling architecture, Scotland’s third most populous city is prosperous and cosmopolitan, outperforming other major cities in the UK in terms of jobs, skills, income and environment.
This is reflected in an eclectic mix of eateries, a lively nightlife scene, opportunities for outdoor adventure, year-round festivals and events, inspiring art galleries and interesting museums.
It is far milder here than you might expect from our northern location.
The east coast is actually the sunniest area in Scotland, with around 1,500 of sunshine every year - ideal for the region's outstanding outdoor and active activities, which attract huge numbers of people throughout the year.
Our coastline is amazing – with rugged cliffs and beautiful sandy beaches which stretch for miles both north and south of Aberdeen.
Charming fishing villages and world-class golf courses intermingle with magnificent castles overlooking the North Sea, while nature lovers will be delighted with the range of bird and mammal life inhabiting the landscape.
With the Grampian Mountains and Cairngorms National Park within an hour of the city, there are plentiful opportunities for mountain biking, climbing, skiing, snowboarding and white-water rafting.
Aberdeen also has its very own snow-sports centre where you can ski and snowboard all year round while The Deeside Way offers the chance to run, walk or cycle from the centre of Aberdeen to Ballater in the Cairngorms National Park.
The city is also the perfect place from which to expand your horizons across Scotland, the UK and Europe.
Edinburgh is easily accessible by road or rail; London is just over an hour away by air; while flights to European hubs such as Amsterdam and Paris takes less than two hours.
Find out more About Aberdeen
Whether you are coming from within Scotland, the UK or from overseas, we appreciate that it’s a complex process with a multitude of things to consider.
Our recruitment team will be pleased to help and answer any questions, but you can also find the best of the information available online to help you make this transition: Living and Working in Scotland Lifestyle, Locations and Living Government Guide to Living in the UK We look forward to welcoming you to Aberdeen.
Relocation assistance will available subject to conditions.
Relocation Assistance Policy PDF : 163.83 KB Download
Our recruitment team will be pleased to help and answer any questions, but you can also find the best of the information available online to help you make this transition:
We look forward to welcoming you to Aberdeen.
Relocation Assistance Policy

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/employability/career-benefits:
By studying at Robert Gordon University, students participate in an educational journey which not only provides them with detailed subject knowledge, but through engaging with employability services, produces experienced, skilled, capable graduates who are prepared to succeed in their career.
RGU has achieved global recognition for the employability of its graduates, and we are now 1st in Scotland and 2nd in the UK in the Graduate Employment Rate measure (QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022).
Our approach to this is to define a process which our students undertake in order to achieve our ‘Graduate Outcomes’ (also known as graduate attributes at other institutions).
In order to get a job, employers want a graduate to have the right qualifications and knowledge, appropriate work experience, transferable skills, and personal attitude which is a fit for their organisation.
We believe each student has a unique mix of abilities, and therefore should graduate university having explored and defined their individual identity.
As a student of RGU, this is achieved through their degree qualification, extracurricular opportunities and evidenced through the Employability Enhancement Award
As a student at RGU, your employability journey shall allow you to demonstrate that you have these personal outcomes:
Students are only able to achieve these outcomes through engaging with the employability journey and developing their skills through learning and experience.
The result is that producing their degree qualification and employability profile requires demonstrable evidence, reflection and achievement.
We seek to offer these opportunities and facilitate students to reflect and grow through providing:
One of the key features which employers look for when hiring is relevant work experience.
While learning academic knowledge is valuable, students need to be able to apply this knowledge in the workplace.
Throughout our courses, there are a wide range of compulsory and optional placement or work experience opportunities.
There are a range of benefits to work experience such as:
During your studies, it is important to make the most of all of the opportunities you have to learn and set yourself up for your future career.
We encourage you to view the placement and job opportunities on our course pages or contact our team for more information.
Read more about the Employability team and the support, advice and services available:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/employability/links-with-industry:
Across our courses we have work-related experience and placement opportunities embedded as well as professional body accreditations for various courses.
These connections help our students be ready-for-work once they leave university.
Our courses are chosen and designed to help our students be employable.
Students experience assessments designed to mirror the workplace, live client projects, professional environments, and industry engagement.
This collective approach makes our courses distinctive and ensure students learn the necessary skills that are in demand now and in the future.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development:
Our short courses will equip you with the skills to successfully understand and solve key challenges that are faced within this industry.
Engage is a new creative development programme designed at Gray’s School of Art and delivered in our purpose-built studios and workshops.
Study at the Business School of the Year 2020 (THE Awards 2020) and build on new or existing knowledge across a variety of business subjects.
Develop and enhance your skills and knowledge with our diverse portfolio of highly creative and interdisciplinary short courses.
Our technical, commercial and creative courses will give you the opportunity to build on your existing knowledge and further your professional development.
Situated in the energy capital of Europe, our Energy short courses are relevant and industry led to support career development in this sector.
Whether you're looking to upskill in your current specialism or a new one, our variety of courses will provide transferrable knowledge and skills across the industry.
Designed to build upon your creative development and improve your creative and innovative skills, study a short course to advance your career in this sector.
Enhance your career opportunities by expanding your knowledge through one of our industry-focussed  and relevant courses.
Take the next step in your career and build on new or existing skills with one of our specialist law courses.
With a selection of short courses in a variety of fields, you can build upon your specialist skills and knowledge to enhance your career.
Study an industry centred and relevant short course, providing the opportunity for career development within an important and person-centred profession.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/architecture-construction-and-surveying-short-courses:
Short Courses & Professional Development
We are passionate about equipping people with not only expert knowledge but also the skills to apply it appropriately and creatively.
These industry-driven courses will give you the opportunity to learn in a practical environment, ensuring you are capable of taking these skills into the workplace.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/business-and-management-short-courses:
The University prides itself on its business-connected learning and teaching, and has a strong commitment to work-based and work-related learning.
These short courses will enhance your understanding and equip you with relevant and transferable skills across a variety of business functions.
Study this unique cross-industry data management course for new and current practitioners.
Resilience is now considered an important factor in the contemporary workplace.
In the increasingly and endlessly turbulent context of the modern world of work, the resilience of both individuals and organisations becomes vital in order to survive and thrive.
In order to maximise efficiency as well as achieve organisational goals, it is accepted that leadership is a vital function within any business.
Leadership skills can be learned and this course is the start of this learning for those who want to develop or hone their leadership skills.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/communication-marketing-and-media-short-courses:
Incorporating a blend of theory based and practical learning, these courses will provide the opportunity to be creative, innovative and develop your creative thinking.
Working on collaborative and multi-disciplinary projects will give you valuable opportunities to acquire and build upon on a variety of transferrable skills alongside your course specialism.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/computing-short-courses:
Whether you are looking to build on your existing knowledge and or interested in a change of career, our short courses are industry led and will equip you with the practical and creative problem-solving skills and knowledge to face challenges and succeed in industry.
This workshop is an introduction to BBC micro:bit; a small computer that supports creativity using digital technology.
The micro:bit was initially created as part of the BBC’s Make it Digital initiative that launched in 2014, aimed to stimulate creativity using programming and digital technology as a medium.
The project supported STEM related learning.
Explore the techniques available and issues surrounding the use of Python in data processing.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level 7
Gain an understanding of fundamental Python programming principles, concepts, and the software lifecycle.
Appraise and develop decision-support systems for digital health using real-world cases.
Security Operations provides a comprehensive understanding of security principles, threat detection, incident response, and mitigation strategies.
Students learn to analyse security risks, implement defensive measures, and manage security incidents effectively.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/energy-short-courses:
We continually engage and build upon our industry links to ensure our courses are demand driven, of the highest quality and tailored to meet the current and future needs of employers.
Studying a short course will support your career and skills development in the sector.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/engineering-short-courses:
Combining theory, best practice and strong commercial links, our engineering courses cover a variety of specialisms where you will gain the skills and confidence to take your career to the next level.
We are the first university to achieve prestigious IMechE approval for a suite of Master's level modules for inclusion in Further Learning Plans.
These Plans are a fundamental element in achieving recognition as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/fashion-short-courses:
Encouraging and supporting your creative skills and specialist knowledge, we will equip you with the ability to build upon or pursue a career in the dynamic fashion industry or a similar creative sector due to the transferable skills you will gain.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/health-and-sport-science-short-courses:
Build upon your existing professional skills and knowledge and positively impact the health and wellbeing of individuals through one of our short courses.
Our vocational and industry-centred courses will ensure you are prepared to apply your enhanced skills within your chosen field.
Image interpretation is a skill that is required by a range of healthcare professionals to enhance the service they provide, and the aim of this course is to enable practitioners to develop and/or improve their skills in interpretation of radiographic images of the appendicular skeleton.
Image interpretation is a skill that is required by a range of healthcare professionals to enhance the service they provide, and the aim of this course is to enable practitioners to develop and/or improve their skills in interpretation of radiographic images of the chest.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/law-short-courses:
We have a selection of specialist law courses that can provide you with the opportunity to further your existing professional knowledge and skill in a variety of careers within the legal industry.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/nursing-midwifery-paramedic-practice-short-courses:
Through theory and practical based application, our short courses will provide you with the opportunity integrate your previous knowledge with new skills and experiences, so that you can deliver a higher level of person-centred care within the fields of nursing, midwifery and paramedic practice.
Short Course - 15 credits at SCQF level  11 | ECTS points 7.5
This course will provide a stimulating learning environment for you if you are a suitably qualified healthcare professional seeking to advance your knowledge and skills.
Within your own context, you will be challenged to demonstrate innovation in establishing and managing a minor illness clinic.
Within your own relevant context, you will be challenged to demonstrate innovation in establishing and managing a minor injuries clinic.
You will be supported by experienced lecturers, and expert external practitioners for an optimal blend of theory and practice.
On successful completion, credits can be used within RGUflex to gain academic award.
Short Course - 30 credits at SCQF level 9 or 30 credits at SCQF level 11 | ECTS points 15
This course will prepare non-medical health professionals to prescribe within the legislation relevant to their profession.
This course is aimed at experienced practitioners who wish to enhance their advanced practice by prescribing according to relevant professional standards.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/types-of-study/short-courses-professional-development/social-studies-short-courses:
Continue to enhance and further your positive contribution to society through one of our short courses.
Learn and build upon new and existing skills and expertise which can be applied in practice, as well as transferrable across other environments within the industry.
The Practice Learning Qualification in Social Services is designed for experienced and qualified social work practitioners who wish to mentor, supervise, assess, and support students on placement in a practice setting.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/the-scott-sutherland-school-of-architecture-and-built-environment:
The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment is one of the three oldest of its kind in the UK, with a heritage that extends back to the 19 th Century.
Whilst we are proud of our history we have continually evolved our offering to the needs of our professional areas today, combining innovative thinking with new technologies and contemporary practice across all aspects of the design and construction of building, public space and cities.
We have a strong social ethos and research underpins everything we do.
We see it as our social responsibility to facilitate the design and build of sustainable and well-considered structures and spaces that reflect society's aspirations.
Our unique undergraduate and postgraduate course portfolio is forward thinking and held in high regard by professionals.
We work closely with industry to ensure our courses are relevant and up to date, particularly on big topics like the environment and sustainability where the discipline can have a great impact.
You will work on projects that focus on today’s challenges whilst looking forward to anticipate the needs of tomorrow.
All of our courses combine theory with practical application to ensure you have the skills to apply your knowledge appropriately and creatively within industry.
All undergraduate courses carry professional accreditation from a range of bodies and placements and professional experience in an industry setting is a core part of the course structure.
This gives you a competitive edge and sets you apart when it comes to future employment.
There is a real sense of community in our school and the relationship between staff and students is paramount.
You are treated as individuals and we take the time to get to know you and have ongoing dialogue.
We give you the freedom to express yourself in an academically challenging environment, complemented by a collaborative approach where you can absorb from other students with all kinds of backgrounds at different levels of study.
These factors allows you to realise your full potential and broaden your understanding of the roles, responsibilities and skills of other key professionals.
Our students are regularly recognised for the quality of their work:
The Scott Sutherland End of Year Show is an annual highlight in the calendar, celebrating the talents and achievements of our students.
Our award-winning student society, 57˚ 10, organises events including a weekly lecture series featuring talks by high-profile and inspiring designers, which offers additional insight into the link between education and practice.
The School is based in a purpose-built state-of-the-art £16m facility.
The relationship between our subjects and the space we work within is fundamental, and we are one of the few schools of our kind where all subjects enjoy dedicated space that has been specifically designed for their use.
The building also incorporates a number of energy efficiency features, including solar panels on the roof to help heat water, full LED lighting installation and automatic lighting level controls, which adjust internal lighting depending on external light levels.
The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment provides dedicated studio space for every student according to your course and year of study.
This dedicated flexible learning space is the base room for surveying and construction management students.
In The Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment you will have access to high spec IT suites for online work including computer modelling and analysis
In support of model-making, Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment has a dedicated professional standard workshop with facilities that provide analogue and digital tools including CNC and Laser cutting machines.
A well-equipped printing suite is available for your use throughout your time at RGU.
The aim of the industrial placement is to give you the opportunity to consolidate and broaden the knowledge you have gained in your studies and apply it in a real world situation.
Many of our students build strong relationships with the companies they work with during their placement and often return to work with them following graduation.
All of our undergraduate courses offer a placement period, with Architecture students undertaking their Year 4 out in industry before returning to complete their final two years of study.
We are proud to be associated with leading organisations, institutions and professional bodies.
The School is a member of the UK Green Building Council (UKGBC).
This recognises the School’s record in improving the sustainability of the built environment by transforming the way it is planned, designed, constructed, maintained and operated.
Our close links with industry are vital on a number of levels including the evolvement of courses and course content; delivering expert contribution through guest lectures, sponsorship of students and prizes, employment of students on industrial placements, providing case study material and carrying out student reviews.
We have an active and vibrant research community.
Our research considers the practice and teaching of present and future built environments in terms of their suitability to those they're designed for and their sustainability.
It is underpinned and demonstrated by a practical grounding in the design, production and assessment of innovative, interdisciplinary research and practice-based research projects, and through our published work and other multimedia outputs.
Major research activities carried out by our staff include the design and construction of low energy, affordable, and environmentally friendly housing, exploration of visualisation technology and modelling techniques, design theory and practice, the study of value throughout the life cycle of buildings, innovative methods relating to the management of design and construction, pedagogical research and participatory strategies for community engagement and urban co-design.
There is a high degree of collaboration between disciplines, industry, and professional or public bodies.
Our research has international outreach through collaborations with international HE institutions and organisations, as well as our membership in global networks.
This research group explores the synergies between technology and architecture and the built environment within the context of immersive cities.
This group builds its research upon the Digital Innovation Lab, developed in collaboration with the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology, and the international network Border Urbanism.
Research into the social, economic and environmental impact of sustainable construction.
This group explores circular economy models within construction, sustainable materials and energy consumption.
This research group investigates innovation within architecture and built environment pedagogies, bringing interdisciplinary opportunities to teaching and learning and exploring civic engagement.
The group leads the engagement of the school in the international EURAU network (European Research in Architecture and Urbanism).
The practice-based research group explores the definition of what practice-based research means in the architecture and construction sector.
It focuses on bridging the gap between practice and research establishing links with professionals, communities and policymakers.
Meet the academic, professional and support staff of the Scott Sutherland School.
Peter Exley Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
Arwa Al Jumaily Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Arwa Al Jumaily's staff profile Nancy Anderson Lib Assistant (Collections & Discovery) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Silvia Bassanese Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Silvia Bassanese's staff profile Daria Belkouri Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daria Belkouri's staff profile Whitney Bevan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Whitney Bevan's staff profile Gokay Deveci Emeritus Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gokay Deveci's staff profile Michael Dignan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Naeimeh Jafarifar Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Naeimeh Jafarifar's staff profile Alice Kinnaird Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daniel Boadum Kudom Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Neil Lamb Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrew Marshall Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Douglas Pritchard Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Douglas Pritchard's staff profile Huda Salman Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Huda Salman's staff profile Maria Martinez Sanchez Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots.
Maria Martinez Sanchez's staff profile Jonathan Scott Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jonathan Scott's staff profile Mohammed Seddiki Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mohammed Seddiki's staff profile Michele Victoria Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michele Victoria's staff profile David Vila Domini Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Craig Wilson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Wilson Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jamie Yorkston Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jamie Yorkston's staff profile Quazi Zaman Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Quazi Zaman's staff profile
Lib Assistant (Collections & Discovery)
Helen Aggasild PA/Secretary This email address is being protected from spambots.
Helen Aggasild's staff profile Fergus Denoon Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ronnie Fyfe Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alex Grogan Administration Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lesley Robertson Online Learning Developer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynn Shand School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Caroline Tierney Administration Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
PA/Secretary
Technical Services Officer
Administration Assistant
Online Learning Developer
Published: Thursday 07 August 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/school-of-pharmacy-applied-sciences-and-public-health:
At the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health our students are taught within an innovative learning environment by expert academics, providing you with a forward-looking, supportive and professionally recognised education.
Our diverse range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses are innovative in their approach with a strong emphasis on practice-based learning allowing you to apply your new knowledge to your own area of practice, interest or career ambition.
Learning with us will provide you the opportunity to expand your talent and you will graduate ready to make a positive difference to peoples’ lives, to society and within your chosen profession.
We are proud that our graduates go on to lead fulfilling and rewarding careers across a range of health and social care professions.
Our courses have a strong emphasis on practice-based learning meaning you will graduate ready to tackle the challenges of your chosen profession.
You will have access to a range of state-of-the-art laboratories and learning environments to facilitate the development of skills required for new professional roles and you'll emerge with valuable practical skills in lab techniques, analysis and problem-solving, and the interpersonal skills that are vital for a successful career.
Our academic team are here to support you throughout your learning journey, helping you to achieve your true potential.
Our highly experienced staff are committed to their professions, with many continuing to work in practice, keeping our curriculums relevant and cutting-edge.
Our courses follow a student-centred approach and you will learn through keynote lectures, interactive workshops, tutorials and practical activities including simulated learning experiences.
You will develop and apply your theoretical knowledge as you undertake problem-solving activities and experiential learning.
This will help your development of analytical skills so that you become increasingly self-sufficient and have the reflective and self-evaluative skills to progress into the workplace equipped to meet new challenges and create tomorrow’s opportunities.
Our School is multidisciplinary meaning you will benefit from shared learning experiences across a broad range of subject areas including biomedical sciences, analytical and medicinal chemistry, dietetics, public health, sports and exercise science, forensic science, human health and pharmacy practice.
There is a joint interprofessional learning programme between RGU and the University of Aberdeen which engages 11 undergraduate healthcare professions including biomedical science, diagnostic radiography, medicine, midwifery, nursing, nutrition and dietetics, occupational therapy, pharmacy, physiotherapy and social work.
Through this programme you will be given the opportunity to work in interdisciplinary teams drawn from across the breadth of health and social care disciplines.
This provides fantastic experiential learning opportunities and enables realistic interprofessional learning opportunities where you can learn about the roles of the other professions and benefit from the experience of partnership working.
We have a proven track record for excellence, all our courses are accredited and approved by professional bodies including:
At the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health we have a range of facilities which will not only enhance your learning experience, but ignite your passion and interests.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include a range of chemistry, formulation, molecular biology, cell culture, microbiological, forensic science, human performance and functional capacity, food handling and aseptic laboratories.
In addition to our labs, we also have pharmacy and clinical simulation centres, a real crime scene house and access to a moot courtroom to present forensic evidence.
You may be interested to learn that our research students use our expert kit to work on projects including analysis of DNA, oilfield chemicals, illegal drugs and even counterfeit whisky.
These facilities allow students to learn in inspiring surroundings, with access to the very best equipment and cutting-edge technology.
Our investment in these facilities means that you develop high-quality analytical, clinical and professional skills which are valued greatly by future employers.
Our Analytical Science Laboratory is a purpose-built learning environment that fully supports and develops your learning experience at RGU.
Our Forensic Imaging Laboratory provides you with all the instrumentation to undertake a wide selection of forensic analysis and ensures you gain hands-on experience.
We have a dedicated Crime Scene House on campus that is used to arrange mock crime scenes that you will have the opportunity to work on when studying Forensic and Analytical Science.
Students are provided with volunteer patients on most of our Health and Social Care courses.
The volunteer patients contribute to your practical education and training whilst studying here.
The Clinical Skills Centre is situated in the Ishbel Gordon Building.
It has a number of different rooms and laboratories purposefully designed to practise clinical skills.
Our Human Performance Laboratory in the Ishbel Gordon Building offers world class expertise and gold standard equipment in the analysis of human function and movement.
The Physiotherapy Suite and Gym include two rooms that resemble physiotherapy clinics and a gym for all your practical work you will undertake in related courses.
Our courses are designed in response to the needs of industry, and we have developed close links with local and international companies, as well as public sector organisations, to give students real world work experience.
This is also a chance for employers to see what our students have to offer.
Our students undertake a variety of placements in locations throughout Scotland and, in some cases, abroad.
These placements allow students to put theory into practice and develop essential skills for their future career.
For our undergraduate students in particular, work placements will play an integral part of your learning experience, where you will discover a lot about yourself and your chosen career path as you gain valuable industry exposure.
We are proud to be associated with many different leading organisations, institutions and professional bodies.
NESCOL is Scotland's largest provider of further/higher education.
Upon completing an HNC or HND, many students go on to complete a degree at Robert Gordon University.
HCPC is a regulator which was set up to protect the public by keeping a register of health professionals who meet the Council’s standards for their training, professional skills, behaviour and health.
The General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) is the regulator for pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and pharmacy premises in Great Britain.
The role of the GPhC is to protect, promote and maintain the health, safety and wellbeing of patients and the public who use pharmaceutical services in England, Scotland and Wales.
Originally founded as the Forensic Science Society in 1959, some 60 years later it now boasts a worldwide membership and is the main Professional Body for individuals working as forensic practitioners, academics, researchers and in related professions in the UK and is considered to be the ‘international voice of forensic science’.
The RSC is the largest organisation in Europe for advancing the chemical sciences.
Supported by a worldwide network of members and an international publishing business, its activities span education, conferences, science policy and the promotion of chemistry to the public.
The Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) is the professional body for biomedical scientists in the United Kingdom.
It aims to promote and develop biomedical science and its practitioners.
The Society of Biology is the professional body for UK biologists.
The Society has some 10,000 individual members and through its corporate specialist member societies represents over 80,000 professional and non-professional bioscientists.
The British Dietetic Association is the professional association for dieticians.
Its aims are to advance the science and practice of dietetics, promote training and education in the field and regulate the relations between dieticians and their employers through the BDA Trade Union.
The Association for Nutrition (AfN) defines and advances standards of evidence-based practice across the field of nutrition and at all levels within the workforce.
The Nutrition Society was established to advance the scientific study of nutrition and its application to the maintenance of human and animal health.
Highly regarded by the scientific community, the Society is the largest learned society for nutrition in Europe.
Sport Scotland is the national agency for sport in Scotland.
They see a Scotland where sport is a way of life, where sport is at the heart of society, making a positive impact on people and community.
BASES stands for the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences.
BASES is the professional body for sport and exercise sciences in the UK.
There is an increasing requirement for evidence-based practice in order to meet the demand for clinical effectiveness and good practice.
Research at RGU is built on strong foundations of education and practice-based research.
Over the years we have built up a vibrant research community in partnership with the NHS in Scotland and other Universities and institutions.
We host multi-disciplinary research that focuses its activities on addressing major issues around the diagnosis, prevention, treatment, care and welfare of patients, as well as environmental and bioscience areas of special interest.
Our School also draws on the research skills of academic staff in three other our schools as well as NHS and Scottish Government colleagues, and JBI Centre of Excellence .
We welcome applications from students to undertake research in the following broad areas:
Our documentation that ensures researchers maintain the highest ethical standards that preserve the safety, rights, dignity and well-being of both participants and researchers.
If you undertake research as part of the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health, you will have access to state-of-the-art research facilities and receive support from experienced and dedicated staff.
The University has a wide range of equipment suitable for conducting both solution and solid phase synthetic procedures, complimented by analytical equipment including a 400 MHz nmr, GCMS, LCMS, multiple HPLC's (analytical and preparative), GC, FT-IR, UV and Fluorescence spectrometers, scanning EM, Molecular modelling can be done on a Silicon Graphics Octane 1200 workstation.
Meet the academic, professional and support staff of the School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health.
Nouf Abutheraa Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Brian Addison Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Brian Addison's staff profile Fatma Al Raisi Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Karen Allan Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michael Anderson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Breda Anthony Visiting Researcher This email address is being protected from spambots.
Amy Arnold Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Amy Arnold's staff profile Rodrigo Aspe Lecturer in Sports & Exercise Science This email address is being protected from spambots.
Amina Bahmed Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Itza Baqueiro Pena Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Itza Baqueiro Pena's staff profile Gemma Barron Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gemma Barron's staff profile Ranjit Barry Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Beyza Baskiran Beltran School Admin Team Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stephen Bowhay Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Aly Brown West Regional Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ellen Bruce E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Katherine Burgess Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Katherine Burgess's staff profile Louisa Burns Pharmacist Independent Prescribing Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Donald Cairns Emeritus Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Graeme Carcary Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tanvir Chowdhury Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janine Coombes Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janine Coombes's staff profile Alison Coutts Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Eoin Cowie Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicole Cromar E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ewan Cruickshank Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ewan Cruickshank's staff profile Stuart Cruickshank Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Scott Cunningham Honorary Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Scott Cunningham's staff profile Shauna Cunningham Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Donna Dalgetty Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lorna Dawson Visiting Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Wendy Deegan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kateryna Dehtiar Laboratory Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Clare Depasquale Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Clare Depasquale's staff profile Alberto Di Salvo Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alec Dimitrov E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Maria Dow Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Betty Dube Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Betty Dube's staff profile Harriet Durack Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Christine Edwards Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Christine Edwards's staff profile Qurat Ein Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nkechi Emenike Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Neil Emmison Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jenna Ewing Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Carlos Fernandez Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Carlos Fernandez's staff profile Ellie Ferries Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Matthew Fraser Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Matthew Fraser's staff profile Paul William Gallagher E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ela Gawlik-Nazaruk Laboratory Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrew Gibb Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Evelyn Gillies Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lesley Gorvett School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Marie Goua Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Marie Goua's staff profile Emma Graham Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gwen Gray Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jennifer Gray E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jasmin Gregory Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andy Hall Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andy Hall's staff profile Emma Hector Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
John Hesketh Visiting Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Phillippa Hulme Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emily Hunter Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ollie James Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Zuzanna Kadej Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Karim Visiting Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Graeme Kay Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Graeme Kay's staff profile Catriona Kennedy Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots.
Catriona Kennedy's staff profile Paul Kong Thoo Lin Emeritus Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Paul Kong Thoo Lin's staff profile Linda Lawton Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Linda Lawton's staff profile Caroline Litts Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Caroline Litts's staff profile Dawn MacBrayne E-Tutor in Pharmacy This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jenny Macaskill Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jenny Macaskill's staff profile Myra Mackenzie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michael Malone Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michael Malone's staff profile Moira Marson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pamela Mason E-Tutor in Pharmacy This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kerr Matthews Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kerr Matthews's staff profile Patrick Maughan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Silvia Mazzotta Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Silvia Mazzotta's staff profile Conor McAndrew E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynsay McAulay E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura McClelland E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Craig McDonald Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma McElhinney Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Morag McFadyen Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tina McGilton Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tina McGilton's staff profile Trudi McIntosh Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Babs McKenzie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sherly Meilianti Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sherly Meilianti's staff profile Derry Mercer Visiting Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colin Moffat Visiting Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Len Montgomery Technical Services Officer (Research) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jane Moore Visiting Researcher This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jane Moore's staff profile Gael Morrow Senior Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gael Morrow's staff profile Puja Nathwani E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Evie Nikokavoura Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Evie Nikokavoura's staff profile Simon Officer Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dilara Okut Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Holly Paisley Course Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bruce Petrie Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bruce Petrie's staff profile Sharon Pfleger E-Tutor in Pharmacy This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jenni Pirrie E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Renee Raper E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gillian Robertson East Regional Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iain Robertson Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jo Robertson Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gemma Ross Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gordon Rushworth Visiting Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Slawek Rybczynski Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Geraldine Sale E-Tutor in Pharmacy This email address is being protected from spambots.
Reem Santos E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gosia Singh Applications Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laurie Smith Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laurie Smith's staff profile Diana Souza Moura Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Diana Souza Moura's staff profile Nicky Spalding Placement Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Liam Spence Technical Resource Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bharath Srinivasan Associate Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lyndsay Steel Scottish Pharm Clin Academic Fellowship This email address is being protected from spambots.
Claire Stenhouse Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Derek Stewart Visiting Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynda Storey Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrew Sturrock Honorary Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ewan Sutherland-Maurillon Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jewel Tan E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lindsey Taylor Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colin Thompson Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rhona Thomson Visiting Teacher Practitioner This email address is being protected from spambots.
Antonella Tonna Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Antonella Tonna's staff profile Stuart Waddell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andy Walker Pharmacist Independent Prescribing Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kayleigh-Anne Walker Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kayleigh-Anne Walker's staff profile Sarah Walsh Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Walsh's staff profile Susie Walsh Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
Susie Walsh's staff profile Allana Watson School Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pamela Weir School Administration & Finance Co-ord This email address is being protected from spambots.
Aakash Welgamage Don Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Aakash Welgamage Don's staff profile Hector Williams E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Williams Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tracey Willox Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Isla Witherspoon Associate Student This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rebecca Wright Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sonja Wright Honorary Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kyari Yates Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kyari Yates's staff profile Elaine Youngson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daniela Zanni E-Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Indira de Menezes Castro Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Honorary Lecturer
Lecturer in Sports & Exercise Science
School Admin Team Lead
West Regional Tutor
E-Tutor
Pharmacist Independent Prescribing Tutor
Visiting Professor
Laboratory Assistant
E-Tutor in Pharmacy
Technical Services Officer (Research)
Course Co-ordinator
East Regional Tutor
Visiting Senior Lecturer
Placement Administrator
Technical Resource Manager
Associate Senior Lecturer
Scottish Pharm Clin Academic Fellowship
Visiting Teacher Practitioner
School Administration & Finance Co-ord
Associate Student
Published: Tuesday 15 July 2025
Starts: Tuesday 14 October 2025
Starts: Thursday 18 September 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/school-of-law-and-social-sciences:
At the School of Law and Social Sciences we provide a range of professionally recognised degrees across a wide range of subject areas.
Our teaching is delivered by a dynamic team bringing together a blend of practical expertise and academic excellence to provide students with a stimulating and enjoyable education.
By consulting a wide range of relevant industry stakeholders we ensure our courses are topical, relevant and applicable to the needs of the organisations who may employ you.
Our courses will prepare you for a wide range of employment options in the private and public sectors including the legal profession, social work, health and social care, child care, child protection, librarian roles, criminal justice and community care, human resources, public relations, police and criminal justice, and community development.
Our courses can also lead you to higher or further qualification, research or a teaching qualification.
Our students graduate confident and ready to take on the challenges of their future roles, whilst being proudly equipped with the skills required to add value to our society.
The School is based within the modern Riverside Building, and the nearby Ishbel Gordon Building which offers excellent facilities including independent study stations, group pods as well as excellent IT services and specialist studios.
Our students will also have access to specialist facilities to support the practical elements of their learning including a moot court, law clinic and psychology laboratory and test library.
The Moot Court at the School of Law and Social Sciences provides a realistic setting in which law students can experience and practise mooting as part of their learning.
Our Psychology Laboratory and Test Library give you access to contemporary IT facilities and laboratory space for experiments and studying.
Placements are an excellent opportunity for you to gain real world experience, apply the knowledge and skills you have developed throughout your studies.
It is a great opportunity to meet future employers, boost your CV and increase your employability for when you graduate.
We provide placements at the forefront of practice and in a range of settings for our BA (Hons) Law and Management , BA (Hons) Journalism and BA (Hons) Social Work students.
Furthermore, both the BA (Hons) Applied Social Sciences and BA (Hons) Social Work courses offer a study abroad option as part of our exchange programme with our partner institutions in Poland, Cyprus, Malta, Germany, Vienna and Belgium.
There is also the opportunity to study at the University of Tennessee for one term.
This allows you to enhance your personal development and confidence and benefit from studying your subject in a different culture.
Together they will help you to enter the workplace better equipped to manage the opportunities you are presented with:
At the School of Law and Social Sciences we promote a vibrant and diverse research community where our sustainable, inclusive and interdisciplinary research environment supports researchers address local and global challenges.
Our esteemed staff and research students are from all corners of the globe, bringing unparalleled expertise and global perspectives.
We excel in policy-based, theoretically informed and applied research across law, the social sciences, journalism and information management.
We encourage research collaboration with public, private and third sector organisations for the purpose of creating societal benefit.
We offer a wealth of doctoral research opportunities including discipline-specific and interdisciplinary fields, as well as professional doctorates, all fostering innovation and excellence in academia.
Visit our blog to keep up to date with the latest research at the School of Law and Social Sciences:
Our areas of expertise span several disciplines and are built around four key interdisciplinary research themes:
Research on each of these broad themes could be discipline-specific (e.g.
information science, law, psychology, social work or sociology) or interdisciplinary.
We employ diverse research methods ranging from quantitative to qualitative options to conduct theoretically informed empirical and policy-focused research.
Information Science research within the School covers a wide spectrum of activities.
Areas of expertise include the value and impact of public libraries, cultural heritage (often but not exclusively in the digital sphere), community interactions with local history and heritage, storytelling, information-seeking behaviours, digital literacy, online safety, as well as political engagement with social media technologies.
Information staff also have an interest in a range of methodological approaches primarily in the qualitative domain including conversational research and photo elicitation amongst others.
The Information staff are actively involved in supervising a wide range of inter and multidisciplinary PhDs across a wide range of subjects and participate in research networks across the university and externally.
Our researchers in law are adept at the use of traditional legal research approaches such as doctrinal, comparative and socio-legal research.
Current research covers a wide spectrum of law disciplines in both public and private law.
Among these are healthcare law, extradition, criminology, European Union Law and European Human Rights.
Our research staff also have expertise in construction law, contract law, energy law and policy, and environmental law.
The law team are renowned for their expertise in dispute avoidance and resolution, maritime law and the law of the sea and employment law and will welcome research proposals from prospective students in these areas.
Our research in psychology covers a broad range of areas including cognitive psychology, health psychology and social psychology.
Our staff employ varying research methodologies to examine issues such as multiculturalism, online communities and movements and mental health and wellbeing.
Social work research is interdisciplinary and seeks to engage and address a wide range of national and international topics including those that are referred to as societies wicked problems.
We are actively engaged in researching topics related to international social work, structural inequality, public health, mental health, children and families, early years, leadership and management in health and social care, service evaluation and redesign, and eco-social work.
We are committed to making an impact in society, ensuring that social work thrives as an academic discipline and its voice contributes to critically addressing issues of social justice, equality, social reproduction, and socio-economic concern.
Researchers in sociology examine issues around collective violence, peacebuilding, post-conflict societies, development, environmental change, energy and corporate social responsibility.
There is also significant expertise within cultural sociology, theoretical sociology and the sociology of health.
Our staff have a breadth of experience in teaching and professional practice.
Academics also have research expertise in their subject area.
Find out more about the staff at the School of Law and Social Sciences.
John Clifford Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
John Clifford's staff profile
David Christie Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Christie's staff profile Natascha Mueller-Hirth Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Natascha Mueller-Hirth's staff profile Sarah Sivers Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Sivers's staff profile Laura Stephen School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Stephen's staff profile
Lee Boag Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Buckler Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Katrina Forbes-McKay Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Katrina Forbes-McKay's staff profile Roisin Harrison Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Roisin Harrison's staff profile Sarah Henderson Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Henderson's staff profile Francis Quinn Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Francis Quinn's staff profile Lucia Ruggerone Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lucia Ruggerone's staff profile David Smith Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Smith's staff profile Ruth Woods Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ruth Woods's staff profile Chris Yuill Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Victoria Buchan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colleen Elliott Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sheila Erskine Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Ferguson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lauren Henderson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alyson Hill Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dave Humphrey Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Clare Hyslop Placement Development Officer - Soc Work This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alastair Logan Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Susanne Machin-Autenrieth Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sach Magill Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kirstin Parkes Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gary Spolander Professor of Social Work This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gary Spolander's staff profile Irene Ukanwa Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tomasz Waszkiewicz Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tomasz Waszkiewicz's staff profile Claire Young Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Youngson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Placement Development Officer - Soc Work
Professor of Social Work
Maggie Anderson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Maggie Anderson's staff profile Paul Arnell Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Paul Arnell's staff profile Sarah Arnell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Arnell's staff profile Vasil Atanasov Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vasil Atanasov's staff profile Saorfhlaith Burton Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hayley Christie's staff profile Rebecca Cox Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rebecca Cox's staff profile Joy Debski Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joy Debski's staff profile Lisa Gibbons-Wood Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lisa Gibbons-Wood's staff profile Kim Harkness Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kim Harkness's staff profile David Hill Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Hill's staff profile Femi Ilesanmi Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Femi Ilesanmi's staff profile Uche Iloka Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Uche Iloka's staff profile Andrey Kotelnikov Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrey Kotelnikov's staff profile Thorsten Lauterbach Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Thorsten Lauterbach's staff profile Carole Lyons Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Carole Lyons's staff profile Andrew MacQueen Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrew MacQueen's staff profile Tinashe Madebwe Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tinashe Madebwe's staff profile Joseph Mante Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joseph Mante's staff profile Nicolas Maulet Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gerry McGee Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gerry McGee's staff profile Leon Moller Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Leon Moller's staff profile Caroline Nixon Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Caroline Nixon's staff profile Rachel O'Neill Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rachel O'Neill's staff profile Temi Odusanya Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Temi Odusanya's staff profile Judith Oloo Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Judith Oloo's staff profile Hamish Ross Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hamish Ross's staff profile Silvina Sanchez Mera Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Silvina Sanchez Mera's staff profile Rainbow Tsang Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rainbow Tsang's staff profile Hazel Watt Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hazel Watt's staff profile
Simon Burnett Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Simon Burnett's staff profile Konstantina Martzoukou Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Konstantina Martzoukou's staff profile Peter Reid Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter Reid's staff profile
Stephanie Campbell Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lyndsay Mesjar Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lyndsay Mesjar's staff profile Beulah Lowry Researcher This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joanna Santos-Petiot Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joanna Santos-Petiot's staff profile Palika Vithana Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Researcher
Angie Aberdein Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emily Baird School Administration Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Debbie Banner School Administration Team Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Claire Booth Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Craig Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laraine d'Antin Online Learning Developer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mollie Findlay Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alyson Forrest School Course Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Tricia Horton Course Administration Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chloe MacLeod Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Abby Othman Wilson Online Learning Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Martha Richardson Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Phyllis Robertson School Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Wilson Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mark Youngson Finance Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
School Administration Co-ordinator
School Course Co-ordinator
Course Administration Co-ordinator
Online Learning Officer
School Course Administrator
Finance Administrator
Shams Abu-Tayeh Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alison Brown Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter Cairns Course Lead (Human Development Scotland) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ross Chalmers Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynne Conway Course Lead (Human Development Scotland) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gillian Donachy Course Lead (Human Development Scotland) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Oonagh gaff Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter Longmire Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jess McCormack Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anne Thompson Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Katherine Waumsley Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Grant Wilkie Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pamela Wilson Human Development Scotland Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Human Development Scotland Tutor
Course Lead (Human Development Scotland)
Blessing Abeji Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alita Beaser Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stephen Bland Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Abigail Boakye Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ross Carvel Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hollie Cavanagh Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jenny Court Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Robert Craigmyle Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Karen Doyle Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jamie Dunbar Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Elimma Ezeani Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Judith Forbes Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Henderson Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alison Heron Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Arran Dowling-Hussey Arbitration Practice Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hollie Hutchison Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ib Idaminabo Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andy Jones Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Faruq Khan Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nelly Kiragu Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rachael Mackay Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gillian Mair Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Angela Maitland Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rita Marcella Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rita Marcella's staff profile Shona McFarlane Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stephen McLaren Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
William McLaughlin Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lesley Mennie Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Adamma Okeagu Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gavin Pearson Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lisa Reilly Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jamie Robertson Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Rogers Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kamo Sende Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Simi Shoda Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ashley Simpson Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Stephen Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alan Townsend Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
James Walker Fixed Term P/T Tutor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fixed Term P/T Tutor
Arbitration Practice Tutor
Tutor
Adam Abdulla Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iris Altenberger Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lindsay Conchar Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Margaret Downie Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Margaret Downie's staff profile Leia Miller Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter O'Malley Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rita Phillips Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rita Phillips's staff profile Matthew Warke Associate Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Associate Lecturer
Adam Ogilvie-Smith Honorary Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Starts: Thursday 02 October 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/school-of-health:
The School of Health incorporates the main healthcare professions where we provide dynamic and transformational learning, teaching and research that improves the health and wellbeing of patients, families and communities.
Our courses include Diagnostic Radiography, Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedicine, Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy, and we pride ourselves on producing graduates who positively impact the lives of individuals and make a valuable contribution to the health of our society.
We’re currently experiencing some radical changes in the delivery of healthcare and, as a result, the level of knowledge and skills required by healthcare professionals has never been greater.
Our courses are innovative in their approach with a strong emphasis on practice-based learning, allowing you to apply your new knowledge to your own area of practice, interest or area of career ambition.
Our continued collaboration with the NHS and independent sector partners, service users and carers ensures that we deliver a contemporary and evidence-based learning experience that meets the needs of health and social care services.
Our strong established industry links and partnerships allow us to offer a diverse range of high quality placements throughout our undergraduate portfolio.
A key part of learning and development has evolved through simulated practice learning and we use this method in a number of courses allowing students to experience real life situations in a realistic and safe environment.
By using volunteer patients and a range of facilities, students can practice their responses and actions when facing an emergency situation, preparing them for the future.
Our courses are innovative in their approach and are delivered by an academic team who are qualified practitioners which means you will benefit from their vast and varied clinical expertise and research knowledge.
Our aim is to help you to become knowledgeable, influential, skilled, compassionate and ready to work within a rapidly changing health and social care environment.
You will be equipped for a career without boundaries, a career where you can change lives.
We’re a leading provider of professional education and research programmes for nursing, midwifery and allied health professions in Scotland.
One of the ways in which we differ from others, is that the principles of public health and health promotion are integrated across all stages of our programmes which are also practice focused.
Our graduates enter the workplace well equipped to embark upon a career in a healthcare profession, ready to meet current and future challenges of the workplace.
We believe that immersing you in real life situations throughout your studies will equip you with the knowledge, skills, experience and confidence to positively impact our society at a local, national and global scale.
We are proud of the employment record of our graduates and feedback from their employers confirms that our graduates are work-ready and equipped for the ongoing learning required to be successful in today’s workplace.
Our staff are all experienced and committed to their profession with many still working in practice, ensuring the curriculum is up-to-date with modern practice and cutting-edge developments.
They form the perfect team to support your learning and help you to achieve your potential.
Early placements will develop you as an active partner in the learning process, where you can put into action your theoretical and practical learning.
You will learn through keynote lectures, interactive workshops, tutorials and practical activities including simulated learning experiences.
You will develop and apply your theoretical knowledge as you undertake problem solving activities and experiential learning.
We’re the first university in Scotland to receive the UNICEF Baby Friendly Initiative gold award .
The accreditation is recognised as a mark of quality in student midwifery and health visiting programmes.
At the School of Health you will have access to purpose-built training facilities which will provide you with a realistic and safe environment to practice your skills.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include a human performance lab, functional capacity lab, X-ray suite, physiotherapy practical rooms, ward setting, intensive care room and occupational therapy home setting.
You will experience a unique learning opportunity to undertake real life situations and to work with other students across our health courses.
You will also benefit from our volunteer patient programme which will provide you with the opportunity to put your skills into practice with individuals from the community.
Our cutting-edge facilities will provide you with an inspiring surrounding where you will gain professional level training, enhancing your skillset, preparing you for your future career.
Within the Clinical Skills Centre is our Occupational Therapy Home Setting, which has been designed for you to practise your clinical skills within a safe environment.
The Radiography Suite sits within the Ishbel Gordon Building and contains industry standard equipment for clinical skills practice.
Placement experience is essential to ensure you are ready for rapidly changing health and social care environments.
We place a strong emphasis on linking theory to practice and our students will experience a breadth of health and social care settings and in a wide range of locations throughout Scotland.
Placement experience will enable you to be prepared for the world of work as you transfer your learning into real world situations, gaining exposure to a wide range of learning opportunities in an extensive variety of settings.
Our students also have the opportunity to work with a variety of voluntary and third sector community groups including Brain Injury Grampian, MS Society, Alzheimer’s Scotland, ACVO, Sands, Children 1st, Clan, Aberdeen Carers and schools across Aberdeen which provides excellent experiential learning opportunities.
This work is often alongside other professions which enables realistic interprofessional learning opportunities where you can learn about the roles of the other professions and benefit from the experience of collaborative working.
Placement experience is essential for producing graduates who are fit-for-purpose in rapidly changing health and social care environments.
These placements allow theory to be put into practice and essential skills are developed.
All of our undergraduate courses offer placements in practice, for up to 50% of the programme.
Course specific information on placements is provided on the course page.
We are proud to be associated with the many different leading professional bodies, organisation and institutions.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council exists to safeguard the health and wellbeing of the UK public.
It is responsible for registering all nurses and midwives, and setting the standards of education, training and conduct that nurses and midwives need to deliver high quality healthcare.
The RCN represents nurses and nursing, promotes excellence in practice and shapes health policies.
The College of Radiographers represents more than 90 per cent of the diagnostic and therapeutic radiographers in the UK.
It is responsible for their professional, educational, public and workplace interests and is one of the oldest and most experienced radiography organisations in the world.
The British Association of Occupational Therapists (BAOT) and Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) are committed to promoting the unique value and benefits of occupational therapy to the public, service commissioners and political representatives.
BAOT is the professional body representing the diverse and thriving community of occupational therapy staff across the UK.
RCOT is a registered charity and wholly owned subsidiary of BAOT, which acts on behalf of all members of BAOT.
RCOT set the professional and educational standards for the occupational therapy profession and represent the profession at national and international levels.
CSP is the professional, educational and trade union body for the UK's 65,000 chartered physiotherapists, physiotherapy students and support workers.
The CSP accredited pre-registration physiotherapy programmes which met the CSP quality assurance processes.
The CSP is a member-led organisation governed by an elected council, providing a wide range of member services.
It campaigns on behalf of physiotherapists and the physiotherapy profession.
CAPTE is the agency recognised by the United States Department of Education for granting accreditation status to entry-level education programs for physical therapists and physical therapist assistants
There is an increasing requirement within healthcare professions and disciplines to engage in evidence-based practice in order to meet the demand for clinical effectiveness and good practice.
The aim of our research is to engage with key partners to develop, deliver and disseminate high quality research that is of value to society, those using health and social care services, and the healthcare professionals.
Our vision is to be recognised for research that addresses the health and wellbeing of the population by undertaking impactful, innovative and interdisciplinary research to inform policy and practice.
Over the years we have built up a vibrant research community in partnership with NHS Scotland and other universities.
We host multidisciplinary research that focuses its activities on addressing major issues around the diagnosis, prevention, treatment, care and welfare of patients.
Our researchers and research supervisors undertake their studies within a wide range of theoretical frameworks and models relating to the development of policy and practice that addresses the school’s research themes.
We have research expertise in a range of methodologies including mixed methods, systematic literature reviews, scoping and mapping studies, quantitative and qualitative research, feasibility and pilot studies moving towards larger scale RCTs where appropriate.
We also host the JBI Scottish Centre for Evidence-Based Multiprofessional Practice, a centre of excellence, undertaking systematic reviews, training in a variety of systematic review methods and working with clinicians and service users to identify topics for systematic reviews and to promote implementation of findings into practice.
We’re proud to offer a unique opportunity to qualify as a Chartered Physiotherapist combined with a PhD leading to a Doctorate in Physiotherapy.
It is the first course of its kind in the UK, and the only physical therapy programme outside North America to be accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education.
We also offer health professions research degrees in the following areas:
Specialised Research Facilities:
Our research is encompassed within three overarching themes:
Find out more about the staff at the School of Health.
Janyne Afseth Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janyne Afseth's staff profile Laura Binnie Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Binnie's staff profile James Brogan Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
James Brogan's staff profile Kay Cooper Associate Dean (Research) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kay Cooper's staff profile Isla Fairley Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Isla Fairley's staff profile Gareth Haining Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bruce Harper-Ovstebo Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bruce Harper-Ovstebo's staff profile Helen Henderson Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Humphrey Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Humphrey's staff profile Julie Jones Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Julie Jones's staff profile Christine Lauterbach School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Christine Lauterbach's staff profile Jackie Leith Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Julie Mathers Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Julie Mathers's staff profile Paul Moran Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Paul Moran's staff profile Elaine Stewart Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Donna Wynne Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Donna Wynne's staff profile
Associate Dean (Research)
Katie Anderson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fiona Baguley Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Bell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Brown Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stuart Burnett Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stuart Burnett's staff profile Jennifer Cowie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Muriel Dempsie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pauline Donaldson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michelle Duncan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rosa Eisenberg Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rosa Eisenberg's staff profile Jennifer Elliott Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jennifer Elliott's staff profile Gill Fenwick Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lindsey Gillespie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Hay-Higgins Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Billy Jackson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Billy Jackson's staff profile Siew Lee Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Siew Lee's staff profile Richard Leece Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Graham Macaulay Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Scott Macpherson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Scott Macpherson's staff profile Sarah Maver Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Natalie McDonald Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alison McIntosh Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kira Milne Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ciara Moloney Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ciara Moloney's staff profile Claire Morphy Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Claire Morphy's staff profile Zoi Papadatou Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Zoi Papadatou's staff profile Iain Parkin Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kelly Reid Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kelly Reid's staff profile Sarah Riddell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jacqui Robertson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jill Robertson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Cameron Smith Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Cal Stuart Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Matthew Sunter Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Matthew Sunter's staff profile Lauren Whitton Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Debbie Wilson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Barrows Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Vicki Falls Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rebekah Farquharson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jo Lironi Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sally Macdonald Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jaimie Middleton Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stacey Paterson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stacey Paterson's staff profile Mo Tabib Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mo Tabib's staff profile Maria Velo Higueras Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Maria Velo Higueras's staff profile Claire Vigot Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Keiran Bellis Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colin Fisher Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Charlie Loweth Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alice MacDonald Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Calum Forsyth Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kerri Fullerton Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rory Jack Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rory Jack's staff profile Stewart Macdonald Lecturer in Physiotherapy This email address is being protected from spambots.
Stewart Macdonald's staff profile Laura MacPherson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma McBoyle Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma McBoyle's staff profile Jamie McGovern Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chris Meiklejohn Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Victoria Park Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Helen Taylor Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Craig Walker Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Kirstyn Anderson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kirstyn Anderson's staff profile Victor Cabal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Susan Doogan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alison Gillespie Practice Based Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Alison Gillespie's staff profile Brooke Grant Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Brooke Grant's staff profile Mairead Orrell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Mairead Orrell's staff profile Eimear Whelan Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Practice Based Lecturer
Lesley Leishman Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Louise Mifsud Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Neumann Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Denise Arkley School Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Denise Arkley's staff profile Tammy Bain Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicole Bryce School Administration Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Janette Buchanan School Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Beinn Burroughs Physiotherapist This email address is being protected from spambots.
Andrew Cairns School Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Danielle Campbell Finance Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Danielle Campbell's staff profile Maureen Cooper Finance Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emilie Crighton Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ela Danilowska Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ela Danilowska's staff profile Renate Dorfi Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Steven Dunbar Receptionist This email address is being protected from spambots.
Steven Dunbar's staff profile Lorna Gordon Finance Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Zoe Henderson School/Research Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Zoe Henderson's staff profile Jill Howatt Administrative Team Lead (Practice Lrng) This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jill Howatt's staff profile Arlene Jopp Admin Team Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Arlene Jopp's staff profile Fiona Logie Clinicial Skills Centre Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jonathan Lucas Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jonathan Lucas's staff profile Errol Luders Online Learning Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Errol Luders's staff profile Jonathan Macdonald Technician This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynn McKenzie School Administration Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynn McKenzie's staff profile Carol-Ann McKerron Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Carol-Ann McKerron's staff profile Matt Nicol Online Learning Developer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Rahul Oza VLE Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gen Racette-Gamauf Course Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pam Rebecca Course Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pam Rebecca's staff profile Kevin Robertson Clinical Skills Centre Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Stott School Admin Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lynne Strachan Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Audrey Stephen Course Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Marina Veitch Admin Team Lead This email address is being protected from spambots.
Dale Youngs Simulation & Clinical Skill Facilitator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Physiotherapist
Receptionist
School/Research Administrator
Administrative Team Lead (Practice Lrng)
Admin Team Lead
Technician
VLE Co-ordinator
Clinical Skills Centre Assistant
School Admin Co-ordinator
Simulation & Clinical Skill Facilitator
Nick Adams Research Fellow B This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nick Adams's staff profile Lyndsay Alexander Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lyndsay Alexander's staff profile William Ball Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
William Ball's staff profile Karen Crozier Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Erin Hart-Winks Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Erin Hart-Winks's staff profile Tom Herbert Physiotherapist This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Hunter Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Hunter's staff profile Emma MacIver Research Fellow A This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma MacIver's staff profile Joanna Shim Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joanna Shim's staff profile Emma Stage Research Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emma Stage's staff profile Anastasia Pavlova Research Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anastasia Pavlova's staff profile Paul Swinton Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Paul Swinton's staff profile
Research Fellow B
Research Fellow A
Details of visiting researchers are to follow.
In this 2-hour forum we will discuss RGU course updates, RGU specific PrBL updates and come together to explore the future of practice-based learning.
Published: Thursday 14 August 2025

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/academic-schools/gray-s-school-of-art:
Set within a stunning natural landscape on RGU's riverside campus, our school comprises of a vibrant mix of students studying undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral and short courses across both fine art and design.
We offer an environment that enables your imagination to flourish and a platform for establishing your own future professional career.
We are developing and empowering the next generation of creative graduates who are critically and socially engaged, enterprising and capable of thriving in a variety of professional contexts.
In our inclusive and supportive spaces, creative-thinkers who want to express their uniqueness and make positive change can thrive.
Our undergraduate, postgraduate, and short course portfolio explores a wide range of both general and specialist subjects within the creative disciplines.
You will apply your newfound knowledge and skills within your chosen course and explore the principles and boundaries of your field through our wide range of learning opportunities and exciting experiences.
The curriculum and teaching methodologies are student centred, meaning that you will learn by discovering, defining, developing and delivering, and through thinking, doing, making, designing, collaborating and challenging perceptions.
You will be encouraged to collaborate with practitioners from other disciplines and external agencies to develop new ways of working within the creative economy.
You will participate in a wide range of exhibitions both internally within the school and externally at a number of partner venues.
In Year 3 semester 2, you will have the opportunity to experience international field study trips and our international study exchanges with our partner colleges in France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Finland, Denmark, Canada and the Czech Republic.
We place an emphasis on developing your graduate attributes and professional skills.
Our graduates often apply their entrepreneurial skills to seek out funding opportunities for setting up their own new businesses, while others have pursued further study through PhD's.
We expect our students to be pro-active and ambitious, we develop confident communicators who are responsible and ethically aware citizens, capable of developing critically creative responses and solutions that are environmentally friendly and often benefit our local communities and wider society.
Our learning environment reflects our emphasis on experiential learning and critical reflection.
We value and understand the importance of the traditional, hand making skills that underpin our creative disciplines, combining these with the latest digital and emerging technologies to prepare you for employment and a creative future.
Our hand to high-tech approach ensures students have access to dedicated studio spaces as well as our unique range of analogue workshops.
These include photography darkrooms, printmaking studios, ceramics and jewellery workshops and fashion manufacturing facilities.
Our facilities will also afford you access to the latest digital technologies, including photography studios and a video editing suite, alongside digital manufacturing tools such as 3D modellers and scanners, laser cutters, fabric printers and direct to media printers.
Create ceramic and glass pieces in our state of the art facility.
Take advantage of the modern digital fabrication facilities in our FabLab.
Our Jewellery and Metal Workshop will empower you to create and hone in on your jewellery and metalsmithing skills.
Our spacious north facing drawing workshop provides a bright and conducive working environment, where you will explore many aspects of the drawing practice.
Our spacious painting studios will allow you to explore scale in your work while using a wide range of mediums.
Gray’s School of Art offer the best darkroom facilities in the North East.
Enjoy the convenience of dyeing your fabrics and screen printing your textiles all within the same area.
Use our East and West Workshops to take on woodwork and metalwork projects of all scales.
Take the opportunity to make your designs a reality in our Fashion Manufacture Workshop.
If you are in need of professional style photos, The Gray’s School of Art can be of assistance.
Gray’s Art Shop supplies an extensive range of art, architecture and stationary products.
Discover which method of printmaking you prefer at Gray’s School of Art.
Large IT Lab in Garthdee House Annexe building for digital editing and Photoshop work.
The school has an established network of professional connections within a wide variety of companies, creative agencies, public bodies, charities and partner organisations.
This regularly affords our students the opportunity to meet with and speak to professional artists, practitioners, and designers both nationally and internationally.
Through these experiences you will develop your communication skills and learn how to present and promote your work internally to your peers and externally within the creative economy.
You will also develop your professional and commercial understanding through live project briefs with clients and external partners, and participate in national and international competitions.
Our undergraduate courses offer a 10-week work-based placement or, alternatively, a 4-week work experience opportunity in Year 3 semester 2.
A wide variety of options exist with local, national, and international companies and partner organisations from across the cultural sector and creative industries.
Our students have recently completed placements with FortyTwo Studio, Imajica Brand Evolution, Timorous Beasties, Bespoke Atelier, TellyJuice, J.W Anderson, Jonathan Saunders, House of Holland, Iona Crawford Atelier, Dezion Studio and Vakvrouwen, amongst others.
Placements provide you with the opportunity to apply your skills within a real-world context and learn from professionals working in a range of roles across a variety of employment settings.
A wide range of partners support the delivery of our curriculum, including:
Look Again, part of Gray’s School of Art, is a creative team of producers, facilitators, and curators.
Their primary objective is to deliver a year-round programme of public engagement projects.
This involves art in public space, exhibitions, learning programs, and social events.
Their mission is to unite, showcase, and empower the creative community in Northeast Scotland.
G@G’s is our annual visitor programme that invites a series of national and international artists and designers, writers, and curators to present lectures and seminars.
DLLT is a registered charity that operates and delivers a number of free to access programmes and positive destination activities for young people in Aberdeen.
INTL highlights outstanding creative work and celebrates the people behind it.
They promote the Scottish creative industries and aim to build a supportive community through inspiring events, international projects, and a global awards programme.
D&AD represents global creative, design and advertising communities and celebrates brilliance in commercial creativity.
The RSA embodies a wealth of professional experience in fine art and architecture with members taking a leading role in higher education and in many of Scotland's cultural institutions.
RGU’s EIG helps drive innovation and support new enterprises to create impact and contribute to Scotland’s economic prosperity.
SDS supports our students to start up and develop their own new businesses.
ACCESS RGU works in partnership with various schools across Scotland to provide a range of art and design engagement programmes throughout the year.
These programmes aim to support the transition from school to university.
Engage is our creative development programme delivered at Gray’s School of Art in our purpose-built studios and workshops.
Our research and scholarly activities and associated projects explore a range of themes including Inclusive & creative societies, health and wellbeing, living in a digital word, environment energy and sustainability and pedagogy.
Staff are active across a range of contemporary research initiatives and projects, locally, nationally and internationally.
The school maintains active research links with key organisations in the city and region, including Aberdeen Art Gallery, Peacock Visual Arts, Denis Law Legacy Trust, Grampian Hospital Arts Trust, Deveron Arts Scottish Sculpture Workshop, and Hospitalfield.
Staff and students regularly explore contemporary art and design practice through the lens of societal impact, philosophical and political value, and through our knowledge of historical contexts and emerging futures.
The school is a member of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities, that provides doctoral training, including support for practice-led PhDs and we offer research degrees part time and full time at MPhil, MRes and PhD level in art and design.
We are particularly interested in applications in selected topic areas:
Current PhD's in Gray’s School of Art include:
Our research programme is an innovative and challenging base for practice-led research, in which the application of art, design and craft practice forms a significant part of the inquiry.
Our academic, technical and support staff have a breadth of experience in education, teaching, and professional practice.
With our support, you will develop your creative confidence and identity enabling you to pursue a creative career within a variety of professional contexts.
Dan Allen Dean This email address is being protected from spambots.
Michael Agnew Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Colin Bell Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jon Blackwood Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jon Blackwood's staff profile Fiona Blunsdon Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fiona Blunsdon's staff profile David Blyth Postgraduate Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
David Blyth's staff profile Pauline Bremner Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Pauline Bremner's staff profile Jim Buckley Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anne Campbell Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anne Campbell's staff profile Cameron Campbell Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter Chalmers Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Peter Chalmers's staff profile Jen Clarke Associate Professor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jen Clarke's staff profile Cameron Craddock Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Cameron Craddock's staff profile Karen Cross Associate Dean for ADSE This email address is being protected from spambots.
Karen Cross's staff profile Daniel Crozier Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ben Durack Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ben Durack's staff profile Craig Ellis Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Craig Ellis's staff profile Simon Farmer Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ann-Marie Foster Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ann-Marie Foster's staff profile Chris Fremantle Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chris Fremantle's staff profile Dorothy Giles Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iain Gill Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iain Gill's staff profile Lyndsey Gilmour Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Lyndsey Gilmour's staff profile Elaine Gowans Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Elaine Gowans's staff profile Derrick Guild Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Derrick Guild's staff profile Charles Hackett Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Charles Hackett's staff profile Jim Hamlyn Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jim Hamlyn's staff profile MARIE-CHANTAL HAMROCK DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - GRAYS SCHOOL OF ART (RPHFTGRAY) This email address is being protected from spambots.
MARIE-CHANTAL HAMROCK's staff profile Callum Kellie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Callum Kellie's staff profile Regan Kyle Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Regan Kyle's staff profile Audrey Laing Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Audrey Laing's staff profile Laura Leuzzi Chancellor's Fellow This email address is being protected from spambots.
Laura Leuzzi's staff profile FI LOVEDAY DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - GRAYS SCHOOL OF ART (RPHFTGRAY) This email address is being protected from spambots.
FI LOVEDAY's staff profile Caitlyn Main Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Caitlyn Main's staff profile Madeleine Marcella-Hood Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Madeleine Marcella-Hood's staff profile Lynne Mennie Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jennie Milne Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jennie Milne's staff profile Iain Morrison Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Iain Morrison's staff profile Annette Murray Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Annette Murray's staff profile Hilary Nicoll Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Hilary Nicoll's staff profile ALISON SCOTT DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - GRAYS SCHOOL OF ART (RPHFTGRAY) This email address is being protected from spambots.
ALISON SCOTT's staff profile Davy Shanks Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chris Silver Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Chris Silver's staff profile Marie Simpson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Marie Simpson's staff profile Fiona Smith Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fiona Smith's staff profile Josie Steed Associate Dean for Research This email address is being protected from spambots.
Josie Steed's staff profile Fiona Stephen Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Fiona Stephen's staff profile Aubin Stewart Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nichola Strachan Principal Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nichola Strachan's staff profile Daniel Sutherland Associate Dean for ESCD This email address is being protected from spambots.
Daniel Sutherland's staff profile Nicci Thompson Senior Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Watson Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicola Watson's staff profile Matthew Wilcock Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Matthew Wilcock's staff profile Judith Winter Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Judith Winter's staff profile Maja Zeco Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Maja Zeco's staff profile
Postgraduate Co-ordinator
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY - GRAYS SCHOOL OF ART (RPHFTGRAY)
Angie Aitchison Administrative Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Claire Bruce Look Again Festival Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Anne Campbell's staff profile Eleisha Connon School Operations Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Ray Downie Mobile Art School Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Roy Glennie Technical Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bart Grabski Digital Media Engagement Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Struan Hamilton Technical Supervisor This email address is being protected from spambots.
Bethan Kane School Project Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Emmajane Kingaby Creative Development Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sarah Leonard Academic Administrator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Gosia Lewandowska Administrative Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Helen Love Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Catherine Mackay Finance Co-ordinator This email address is being protected from spambots.
Elaine Macpherson School Secretary This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joshua Macpherson Art Materials Shop Manager This email address is being protected from spambots.
Malcolm Mckie Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Jennie Milne's staff profile Kevin Morris Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joanna O'Brien Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Nicole Paterson Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Sally Reaper Look Again Festival Director This email address is being protected from spambots.
Amanda Shearer Art Materials Shop Assistant This email address is being protected from spambots.
Kari Stenhouse Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Joost van Loon Technical Services Officer This email address is being protected from spambots.
Administrative Assistant
Look Again Festival Co-ordinator
Mobile Art School Co-ordinator
Technical Supervisor
Digital Media Engagement Co-ordinator
School Project Administrator
Creative Development Co-ordinator
Academic Administrator
Finance Co-ordinator
School Secretary
Art Materials Shop Manager
Look Again Festival Director
Art Materials Shop Assistant
Kinga Elliott Fixed Term P/T Lecturer This email address is being protected from spambots.
MIRIAM FOY ART AND DESIGN (PMAFTAAAR) This email address is being protected from spambots.
RACHAEL GEMMELL RGU Alumni This email address is being protected from spambots.
ART AND DESIGN (PMAFTAAAR)
At Gray’s School of Art, our students gain valuable professional skills through project work and interaction with industry.
Learn about the wide range of projects and activities that our staff are currently delivering across the city and beyond.
Gray’s School of Art graduates are renowned for their professionalism, knowledge, technical skills and adaptability.
Read their stories to learn more about their journeys after they have graduated.
Mobile Art School is an outreach project, aimed at engaging and connecting schools across Aberdeen and beyond, to improve the awareness and understanding of the creative industries.
Look Again Aberdeen is based at Gray's School of Art and delivers exhibitions, talks, design markets and the Look Again festival, as well as programmes and events to support and grow the art and design community in the North East of Scotland, developing employability and encouraging retention of creative talent in the region.
Guest at Gray’s is a series that invites inspiring professional practitioners working across the spectrum of contemporary art and design disciplines to deliver a talk to Gray’s School of Art students every Friday lunchtime.
The Graduate in Residence scheme enables Gray’s graduate fine artists and designers with recognised expertise and experience to participate in the delivery of the fine art/design curriculum.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students:
Study Abroad
There are a number of benefits of undertaking a period of study or work abroad.
While it is always a good idea to learn the language of any country you might study in - all RGU students who undertake a study abroad period will be taught in English!
What’s more students may be entitled to receive a Turing Scheme grant!
All the credits you earn abroad will even count toward your RGU degree!
Not only that but a 2009 study found that 29% of students who had studied abroad were earning over £20,000, compared to 17% of students who had not studied abroad.
The figure was even higher (37%) for students who had participated in an overseas work placement.
Not all courses offer the opportunity to study or work abroad, but there are over 100 partner institutions to choose from around the world.
Mobility is a fact of life - we live in a mobile world where people travel in increasing numbers - it affects our work, our pleasure, our food, our law, our environment and our society.
Exchange prepares you for this mobile world.
The Exchange Programme offers you the chance to study your subject in different contexts, with different teachers and different class mates.
You’ll be surprised by the different approach and the insights that students from other countries can bring.
It’s both challenging and highly rewarding.
The exchange experience will enhance your personal development, your job opportunities, your confidence, and your enjoyment of life.
Exchange students are not tourists - you'll live and participate in the day to day life of the country you choose.
Living and studying in a new country is a challenge – you will find yourself facing new and unexpected situations.
Overcoming these obstacles and learning to manage your life within another culture brings maturity, confidence and self-reliance – great life skills.
Not only will you acquire a broader range of skills to offer a future employer, but you’ll have fun doing it.
Exchange students say it is the best part of their time at university, after all nearly one in ten find their life partner while doing their Exchange programme.
So, discover a different culture, make new friends from lots of other countries, learn a foreign language and do something that will look great on your CV.
Current students can login to CampusMoodle to find out what you need to do to prepare for study abroad as part of your RGU course.
Find out which institutions our academic schools have partnerships with enabling you to take a Study Abroad exchange.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/destinations-by-country:
Outgoing Students
Find out where you can go on a Study Abroad exchange and the institutions we have partnerships with for your course.
We have agreements with institutions in across the globe including 15 EU Member States, Canada, South Korea and the US.
These are all the institutions with which we have an agreement for student exchange.
Not all institutions offer exchanges with all of our academic schools and courses, so please make sure a relevant course or school is listed.
We cannot guarantee that places for study abroad at any of these institutions will be available every semester.
Curtin University When you choose Curtin, you choose an innovative, global university.
University of Tasmania Tasmania is Australia’s only island state and acts as the country’s gateway to Antarctica.
When you choose Curtin, you choose an innovative, global university.
Tasmania is Australia’s only island state and acts as the country’s gateway to Antarctica.
Salzburg University of Applied Sciences Salzburg is hard to beat as a student city on one point: student quality of life.
Salzburg is hard to beat as a student city on one point: student quality of life.
Erasmushogeschool Brussel At EhB students benefit from the city's exciting cultural, social and artistic scene while also being at the heart of Europe.
PXL University of Applied Sciences PXL University College is a young, dynamic and vibrant organisation, a centre of expertise for innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
VIVES University of Applied Sciences VIVES is the largest university of applied sciences in West Flanders, Belgium.
At EhB students benefit from the city's exciting cultural, social and artistic scene while also being at the heart of Europe.
PXL University College is a young, dynamic and vibrant organisation, a centre of expertise for innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
VIVES is the largest university of applied sciences in West Flanders, Belgium.
Capilano University Capilano University's main campus is located just a 30-minute drive from downtown Vancouver.
Humber Polytechnic Humber has a reputation for being one of Canada’s most diverse, comprehensive, and exciting colleges - a leader in postsecondary education that offers something for everyone.
Mount Royal University (MRU) Not only does Calgary rank in the top five most liveable cities in the world, students consistently rank Mount Royal University among Canada’s best universities for quality of teaching and overall educational experience.
Selkirk College Located in British Columbia, Selkirk College is nestled within the welcoming West Kootenay and Boundary regions; a spectacular region of rivers, lakes, waterfalls, mineral hot springs, alpine meadows and snow-capped mountains.
Seneca Polytechnic Seneca Polytechnic offers more than an education.
With campuses throughout the Greater Toronto Area, Seneca’s size and diversity gives students the advantage of partnerships with industry leaders, the latest in hands-on computer technology and a variety of class sizes.
University of Victoria At the University of Victoria (UVic), you’re just minutes away from ocean, mountains, forests and city – a stunning west coast backdrop.
Capilano University's main campus is located just a 30-minute drive from downtown Vancouver.
Humber has a reputation for being one of Canada’s most diverse, comprehensive, and exciting colleges - a leader in postsecondary education that offers something for everyone.
Not only does Calgary rank in the top five most liveable cities in the world, students consistently rank Mount Royal University among Canada’s best universities for quality of teaching and overall educational experience.
Located in British Columbia, Selkirk College is nestled within the welcoming West Kootenay and Boundary regions; a spectacular region of rivers, lakes, waterfalls, mineral hot springs, alpine meadows and snow-capped mountains.
Seneca Polytechnic offers more than an education.
At the University of Victoria (UVic), you’re just minutes away from ocean, mountains, forests and city – a stunning west coast backdrop.
Academy of Fine Arts, Prague The Academy of Fine Arts is well placed to offer intensive, focused support for the development of talent.
University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) Prague The University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) is a private business school in Prague.
Prague, also known as the city of a thousand spires, is the financial, political and cultural capital of the Czech Republic.
The Academy of Fine Arts is well placed to offer intensive, focused support for the development of talent.
The University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) is a private business school in Prague.
Business Academy Aarhus Business Academy Aarhus is one of the largest business academies in Denmark.
It is situated in Aarhus, the second biggest city in Denmark, which has a large student population of around 20%.
Danish School of Media and Journalism (DMJX) Aarhus is a dynamic and vibrant city with a large student population.
KEA Copenhagen School of Design and Technology (KEA) is situated in Nørrebro, which is very close to the city centre.
Nørrebro is one of Copenhagen's most vibrant and creative neighbourhoods.
VIA University College VIA University College is located in Central Denmark, with eight campuses across the region.
Business Academy Aarhus is one of the largest business academies in Denmark.
Aarhus is a dynamic and vibrant city with a large student population.
Copenhagen School of Design and Technology (KEA) is situated in Nørrebro, which is very close to the city centre.
VIA University College is located in Central Denmark, with eight campuses across the region.
Häme University of Applied Sciences (HAMK) HAMK is a multidisciplinary, workplace-orientated higher education institution that has strong links with industry.
Kajaani University of Applied Sciences (KAMK) KAMK is a proactive, international university with a strong regional and national profile.
Laurea University of Applied Sciences Laurea is one of the biggest universities of applied sciences in Finland.
Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) is an innovative and multidisciplinary higher education institution in Southwest Finland.
HAMK is a multidisciplinary, workplace-orientated higher education institution that has strong links with industry.
KAMK is a proactive, international university with a strong regional and national profile.
Laurea is one of the biggest universities of applied sciences in Finland.
Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) is an innovative and multidisciplinary higher education institution in Southwest Finland.
Brest Business School Founded in 1962, Brest Business School is a fully accredited institution that provides management education to some 800 students.
Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture de Grenoble With the experience of practitioners and skilled teacher-researchers, ENSAG offers students both a professional and an academic education that combines theory, practice and experimentation.
Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture et de paysage de Lille The National School of Architecture and Landscape of Lille is a public administrative institution of higher education and is the only school in North France to offer degree programmes in both architecture and landscape architecture.
Ecole Supérieure d'Art et Design de Saint-Etienne (ESADSE) Over the past twenty years, the Higher School of Art and Design of Saint-Etienne (ESADSE), has developed a broad and dynamic network offering unprecedented opportunities nourishing its pedagogical model.
ESC Clermont Business School Clermont School of Business is a well-established French business school and is counted amongst the world’s top 5% of business schools that is AACSB-accredited.
ESCE de Paris Since 1968, ESCE de Paris has been recognized for the quality of its teaching and research on both a national and an international level.
Kedge Business School In 2013, Kedge Business School was founded from the merger of two renowned business schools, well-established in their respective regions and already benefiting from international outreach.
Toulouse Business School Toulouse Business School is amongst the prestigious 1% of business schools with the “triple crown” of international accreditations: AACSB, AMBA and EQUIS.
Université Catholique de Lyon The Université Catholique de Lyon was founded in 1875.
With its close ties to business and strong international links, it seeks to promote academic excellence, creativity and integrity.
University of Angers The University of Angers is an educational institution located in Angers and has the highest number of vocational bachelor’s degrees in Western France.
Founded in 1962, Brest Business School is a fully accredited institution that provides management education to some 800 students.
With the experience of practitioners and skilled teacher-researchers, ENSAG offers students both a professional and an academic education that combines theory, practice and experimentation.
The National School of Architecture and Landscape of Lille is a public administrative institution of higher education and is the only school in North France to offer degree programmes in both architecture and landscape architecture.
Over the past twenty years, the Higher School of Art and Design of Saint-Etienne (ESADSE), has developed a broad and dynamic network offering unprecedented opportunities nourishing its pedagogical model.
Clermont School of Business is a well-established French business school and is counted amongst the world’s top 5% of business schools that is AACSB-accredited.
Since 1968, ESCE de Paris has been recognized for the quality of its teaching and research on both a national and an international level.
In 2013, Kedge Business School was founded from the merger of two renowned business schools, well-established in their respective regions and already benefiting from international outreach.
Toulouse Business School is amongst the prestigious 1% of business schools with the “triple crown” of international accreditations: AACSB, AMBA and EQUIS.
The Université Catholique de Lyon was founded in 1875.
The University of Angers is an educational institution located in Angers and has the highest number of vocational bachelor’s degrees in Western France.
Bauhaus-Universität Weimar The State Bauhaus, the most influential design school of the 20th century, was founded in 1919.
CBS International Business School CBS International Business School is full of opportunities for you: besides improving your German language proficiency and developing your personal skills, you will find that their programme’s ideal mix of academic and practice-oriented teaching prepares you for a career in today’s international business world.
Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences (HSD) was founded in 1971 by combining several renowned regional educational institutions.
Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts With around 10,000 students, Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts is the second largest university in Hannover, the capital of the federal state of Lower Saxony.
HWR Berlin HWR Berlin is a public university of applied sciences.
The university offers a highly practical and hands-on approach to teaching and all academic staff have real-world experience of the subjects they teach.
Koblenz University of Applied Sciences Koblenz University of Applied Sciences has developed into the largest university for applied sciences in Rhineland-Palatinate in recent years.
Mainz University of Applied Sciences Practical and theoretically sound, international and future-oriented - studying at Mainz University of Applied Sciences prepares students for their careers and their future in the best sense of the word.
Pforzheim University Pforzheim University with its three schools - the School of Design, the School of Engineering and the Business School - enjoys a first-class reputation.
Rheinmain University of Applied Sciences Two locations in the Rhine-Main area offering over 70 bachelor's and master's degree programmes – this is what defines the Rheinmain University of Applied Sciences.
University of Kassel The University of Kassel is a young, modern and vibrant university, characterized by its openness to new ideas in every single area of its work.
University of Stuttgart Visionary since 1829: The University of Stuttgart stands for exceptional, world-acclaimed research and first-class teaching in one of Europe’s most vibrant industrial areas.
The State Bauhaus, the most influential design school of the 20th century, was founded in 1919.
CBS International Business School is full of opportunities for you: besides improving your German language proficiency and developing your personal skills, you will find that their programme’s ideal mix of academic and practice-oriented teaching prepares you for a career in today’s international business world.
Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences (HSD) was founded in 1971 by combining several renowned regional educational institutions.
With around 10,000 students, Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts is the second largest university in Hannover, the capital of the federal state of Lower Saxony.
HWR Berlin is a public university of applied sciences.
Koblenz University of Applied Sciences has developed into the largest university for applied sciences in Rhineland-Palatinate in recent years.
Practical and theoretically sound, international and future-oriented - studying at Mainz University of Applied Sciences prepares students for their careers and their future in the best sense of the word.
Pforzheim University with its three schools - the School of Design, the School of Engineering and the Business School - enjoys a first-class reputation.
Two locations in the Rhine-Main area offering over 70 bachelor's and master's degree programmes – this is what defines the Rheinmain University of Applied Sciences.
The University of Kassel is a young, modern and vibrant university, characterized by its openness to new ideas in every single area of its work.
Visionary since 1829: The University of Stuttgart stands for exceptional, world-acclaimed research and first-class teaching in one of Europe’s most vibrant industrial areas.
LIUC Business University LIUC offers a high-quality teaching environment for economics, technology, science and management studies with the goal of preparing the next generation of international business leaders.
Politecnico di Milano Politecnico di Milano is a scientific-technological university which has been ranked as one of the top universities in Italy.
LIUC offers a high-quality teaching environment for economics, technology, science and management studies with the goal of preparing the next generation of international business leaders.
Politecnico di Milano is a scientific-technological university which has been ranked as one of the top universities in Italy.
ISM University of Management and Economics ISM University of Management and Economics is one of the top-ranked business universities in the Baltics and has always been closely associated with quality, international experience, prestige, leadership and constant progress.
ISM University of Management and Economics is one of the top-ranked business universities in the Baltics and has always been closely associated with quality, international experience, prestige, leadership and constant progress.
Taylor's University Since its inception in 1969, Taylor's University has gained significant recognition as a leading private education institution.
Since its inception in 1969, Taylor's University has gained significant recognition as a leading private education institution.
Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences The Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences (AUAS) is an institution offering a broad range of professional education programmes to a diverse mix of students, enabling them to fully develop their talent and independently practise their chosen professions at a high level.
Hanze University of Applied Sciences Hanze University of Applied Sciences is a large, comprehensive university of applied sciences that has been educating skilled and committed professionals for over two centuries.
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht At HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht, everything comes together.
You will study at a university with excellent facilities; a place that offers you customized learning in a centrally located metropolis.
InHolland University of Applied Sciences INHolland University of Applied Sciences offers international education and broad, accredited bachelor's programmes at various locations throughout the Randstad region in a wide range of fields: from innovation to business and from technology to media.
Saxion University of Applied Sciences Saxion University of Applied Sciences is one of the largest institutions of higher education in the Netherlands and offers a broad range of courses at various levels, including many international programmes.
Tio Business School Tio Business School ranks among the Netherlands' leading universities of applied sciences and offers the best study courses according to the prestigious Higher Education Guide.
The Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences (AUAS) is an institution offering a broad range of professional education programmes to a diverse mix of students, enabling them to fully develop their talent and independently practise their chosen professions at a high level.
Hanze University of Applied Sciences is a large, comprehensive university of applied sciences that has been educating skilled and committed professionals for over two centuries.
At HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht, everything comes together.
INHolland University of Applied Sciences offers international education and broad, accredited bachelor's programmes at various locations throughout the Randstad region in a wide range of fields: from innovation to business and from technology to media.
Saxion University of Applied Sciences is one of the largest institutions of higher education in the Netherlands and offers a broad range of courses at various levels, including many international programmes.
Tio Business School ranks among the Netherlands' leading universities of applied sciences and offers the best study courses according to the prestigious Higher Education Guide.
University of Wroclaw The University of Wrocław has a rich history of more than three centuries and a long list of Nobel Prize winners among its alumni.
The University of Wrocław has a rich history of more than three centuries and a long list of Nobel Prize winners among its alumni.
Keimyung University Keimyung University is a private university in Daegu, South Korea and is home to approximately 24,000 students.
University of Seoul The University of Seoul (UOS) is a comprehensive public university located in Seoul, South Korea.
Keimyung University is a private university in Daegu, South Korea and is home to approximately 24,000 students.
The University of Seoul (UOS) is a comprehensive public university located in Seoul, South Korea.
Universidad CEU San Pablo CEU San Pablo University endeavours to offer comprehensive education to its students and has become a benchmark for higher education.
Universidad de Alicante The Universidad de Alicante, located in San Vicente del Raspeig, has more than 25,000 students and is a popular destination for international students.
Universidad de Granada The Universidad de Granada is an innovative and comprehensive research university, founded in 1531.
University of the Basque Country In a prosperous region stretching along the Atlantic coast of northern Spain, the people of the Basque Country are the custodians of one of Europe's most ancient languages and cultures.
CEU San Pablo University endeavours to offer comprehensive education to its students and has become a benchmark for higher education.
The Universidad de Alicante, located in San Vicente del Raspeig, has more than 25,000 students and is a popular destination for international students.
The Universidad de Granada is an innovative and comprehensive research university, founded in 1531.
In a prosperous region stretching along the Atlantic coast of northern Spain, the people of the Basque Country are the custodians of one of Europe's most ancient languages and cultures.
Linköping University In close collaboration with the business world, Linköping University (LiU) conducts boundary-crossing research.
Uppsala Universitet Uppsala University is the Nordic region’s oldest university and is ranked among the top 100 universities in the world.
In close collaboration with the business world, Linköping University (LiU) conducts boundary-crossing research.
Uppsala University is the Nordic region’s oldest university and is ranked among the top 100 universities in the world.
Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW) The ZHAW Zurich University of Applied Sciences is one of the leading universities of applied sciences in Switzerland.
The ZHAW Zurich University of Applied Sciences is one of the leading universities of applied sciences in Switzerland.
Columbia College Founded in 1851, Columbia College has been helping students advance their lives through higher education for more than 160 years.
Montana State University Billings Montana State University Billings (MSUB) is a medium-sized institution located in the north western part of the United States, in Montana’s largest city – Billings.
Oklahoma State University (OSU) Oklahoma State University (OSU) is located in the middle of the United States in Stillwater, Oklahoma - just 60 miles from both Oklahoma City and Tulsa.
Southern Utah University Nestled among the red rock mountains of Cedar City, Southern Utah University (SUU) is positioned in one of the world’s most beautiful natural settings.
University of Tulsa Located in the heart of the United States, The University of Tulsa (TU) is a world class research university in Tulsa, Oklahoma, city of 400,000 people.
Founded in 1851, Columbia College has been helping students advance their lives through higher education for more than 160 years.
Montana State University Billings (MSUB) is a medium-sized institution located in the north western part of the United States, in Montana’s largest city – Billings.
Oklahoma State University (OSU) is located in the middle of the United States in Stillwater, Oklahoma - just 60 miles from both Oklahoma City and Tulsa.
Nestled among the red rock mountains of Cedar City, Southern Utah University (SUU) is positioned in one of the world’s most beautiful natural settings.
Located in the heart of the United States, The University of Tulsa (TU) is a world class research university in Tulsa, Oklahoma, city of 400,000 people.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/destinations-by-school:
These are all the institutions with which we have an agreement for student exchange.
Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts HWR Berlin
Brest Business School Business Academy Aarhus Capilano University CBS International Business School Columbia College Curtin University ESC Clermont Business School ESCE de Paris Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Hanze University of Applied Sciences Humber Polytechnic HWR Berlin InHolland University of Applied Sciences ISM University of Management and Economics Kajaani University of Applied Sciences (KAMK) Kedge Business School Keimyung University Koblenz University of Applied Sciences Linköping University LIUC Business University Mainz University of Applied Sciences Mount Royal University (MRU) Oklahoma State University (OSU) Pforzheim University Saxion University of Applied Sciences Southern Utah University Taylor's University Tio Business School Toulouse Business School Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) Universidad CEU San Pablo Université Catholique de Lyon University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) Prague University of Seoul University of Tulsa Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW)
Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts
Business Academy Aarhus CBS International Business School Columbia College Curtin University ESC Clermont Business School Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Hanze University of Applied Sciences HWR Berlin InHolland University of Applied Sciences Kedge Business School Linköping University Mainz University of Applied Sciences Mount Royal University (MRU) Oklahoma State University (OSU) Pforzheim University Saxion University of Applied Sciences Tio Business School Toulouse Business School Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) Prague University of Seoul University of Tulsa Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW)
Business Academy Aarhus CBS International Business School Columbia College Curtin University ESC Clermont Business School Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Hanze University of Applied Sciences HWR Berlin InHolland University of Applied Sciences ISM University of Management and Economics Kedge Business School Keimyung University Koblenz University of Applied Sciences Linköping University LIUC Business University Mainz University of Applied Sciences Mount Royal University (MRU) Oklahoma State University (OSU) Pforzheim University Saxion University of Applied Sciences Southern Utah University Taylor's University Tio Business School Toulouse Business School Turku University of Applied Sciences (TUAS) University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) Prague University of Seoul University of Tulsa Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW)
Capilano University Columbia College Curtin University HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Humber Polytechnic InHolland University of Applied Sciences KEA Linköping University Mount Royal University (MRU) Seneca Polytechnic Taylor's University Universidad CEU San Pablo
Curtin University Salzburg University of Applied Sciences Saxion University of Applied Sciences Selkirk College Seneca Polytechnic Taylor's University
Curtin University Erasmushogeschool Brussel Keimyung University Oklahoma State University (OSU) Saxion University of Applied Sciences Selkirk College Southern Utah University Taylor's University Tio Business School University of Angers
Capilano University Curtin University Erasmushogeschool Brussel Kajaani University of Applied Sciences (KAMK) Keimyung University Oklahoma State University (OSU) Salzburg University of Applied Sciences Saxion University of Applied Sciences Selkirk College Taylor's University Tio Business School University of Angers
Erasmushogeschool Brussel Laurea University of Applied Sciences Rheinmain University of Applied Sciences Saxion University of Applied Sciences University of the Basque Country Uppsala Universitet
Academy of Fine Arts, Prague Capilano University Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences Ecole Supérieure d'Art et Design de Saint-Etienne (ESADSE) Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Politecnico di Milano PXL University of Applied Sciences
Curtin University Humber Polytechnic KEA Keimyung University Saxion University of Applied Sciences Seneca Polytechnic VIA University College
Häme University of Applied Sciences (HAMK) Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Politecnico di Milano VIA University College
Academy of Fine Arts, Prague Ecole Supérieure d'Art et Design de Saint-Etienne (ESADSE) PXL University of Applied Sciences University of Kassel University of Victoria
Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences Ecole Supérieure d'Art et Design de Saint-Etienne (ESADSE) Häme University of Applied Sciences (HAMK) Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Politecnico di Milano PXL University of Applied Sciences
Capilano University Curtin University Danish School of Media and Journalism (DMJX) HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Humber Polytechnic InHolland University of Applied Sciences KEA Linköping University Southern Utah University Universidad CEU San Pablo
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Montana State University Billings University of Wroclaw VIVES University of Applied Sciences
Curtin University Hanze University of Applied Sciences HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Keimyung University Taylor's University Université Catholique de Lyon University of Tulsa Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW)
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Taylor's University Université Catholique de Lyon University of Tulsa Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW)
Danish School of Media and Journalism (DMJX) Erasmushogeschool Brussel HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Humber Polytechnic Mount Royal University (MRU) Southern Utah University
Kajaani University of Applied Sciences (KAMK)
Universidad de Granada
Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences Bauhaus-Universität Weimar Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture de Grenoble Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture et de paysage de Lille Politecnico di Milano Universidad de Alicante University of Stuttgart University of Tasmania
Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences KEA

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions:
A full a-z list of all universities and institutions we have partnership agreements with for Exchange.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/academy-of-fine-arts-prague:
A-Z Partner Institutions
It has its own spacious north-facing historical ateliers with overhead lighting, as well as various technological workshops.
It offers an individual approach and a clear system of teaching, within the framework of which it is possible to transfer between ateliers and disciplines.
The school is actively involved in inter­national exchange programmes and has several long-term partners around the world.
Institutions departments, with those that we have links with are starred*.
Gray's School of Art Tel: 00 44 1224 263615 Email: c.campbell@rgu.ac.uk
International relations/Incoming students officer Tel:  00 420 778 761 298 Email: avuinternational@avu.cz
Academy of Fine Arts in Prague U Akademie 4 17022 Praha 7 Czech Republic
Current RGU Students can access further information on CampusMoodle:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/amsterdam-university-of-applied-sciences:
The Faculty of Technology is one of the leading schools of its kind in the Netherlands.
Amsterdam is one of the safest capital cities in the world and new students feel at home here very quickly.
Amsterdam is very diverse - it's home to people from 181 nations and English is widely spoken.
Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment Email: d.wilson1@rgu.ac.uk
International Office – Faculty of Technology Tel: 00 31 06 151 36 930 Email: internationalofficeft@hva.nl
Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences P.O.Box 931 1000 AX Amsterdam The Netherlands
Current RGU Students can access further information on Moodle:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/bauhaus-universitaet-weimar:
The special professional profile of the Bauhaus-Universität Weimar and its international and interdisciplinary orientation have been attracting an above average number of students from abroad for many years.
Weimar is located in Central Germany and is well known for its cultural heritage and importance in German history.
Just a few minutes' walk from the city centre, you'll find Bauhaus-Universität Weimar and its historical main Building, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Erasmus+ and Exchange Programs Tel: 00 49 3643 58 23 62 Email: evelyn.beyer@uni-weimar.de
Faculty of Architecture and Urbanism Tel: 00 49 3643 58 31 15 Email: gabriela.oroz@uni-weimar.de
Bauhaus-Universität Weimar International Office Geschwister-Scholl-Str.15 99423 Weimar Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/brest-business-school:
Brest is a port city located on the west coast of France.
With a population of approximately 142,000 people, Brest has all the resources of a big city but with a small-town feel.
Brittany’s spectacular natural beauty and quality of life make it an exceptional place to study.
Aberdeen Business School Email: ABSStudyAbroad@rgu.ac.uk
Aberdeen Business School Email: n.connon@rgu.ac.uk
Tel: 00 33 2 98 34 44 47 Email: dri@brest-bs.com
Brest Business School International Office 2 Avenue de Provence 29200 Brest France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/business-academy-aarhus:
They develop and offer practice-orientated programmes primarily for the private business sector, and their main goal is to enable students to get a job.
Exchange students join a class of full-degree students, which gives them the benefit of becoming a fully integrated student.
International Project Manager Tel: 00 45 7228 6000 Email: eaa-exchange@eaaa.dk
Business Academy Aarhus Sønderhøj 30 8260 Aarhus Denmark

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/capilano-university:
Surrounded by a lush forest and fresh mountain air, the campus is an inspiring setting in which to learn and grow.
Capilano University attracts students from around the world; enrolling approximately 11,600 students each year.
Gray's School of Art Tel: 00 44 1224 263615 Email: c.campbell@rgu.ac.uk
Tel: 00 1 604 983 7533 Email: studyabroad@capilanou.ca
Capilano University 2055 Purcell Way North Vancouver BC V7J 3H5 Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/cbs-international-business-school:
Currently, students from more than 69 different countries study and share housing on their campuses in Cologne and Mainz.
Cologne is the fourth-largest city in Germany and counts over one million inhabitants.
With almost 100,000 students, it is one of the largest college towns in Germany and guarantees a unique study abroad experience.
Head of International Office Tel: 00 49 221 931 809 39 Email: s.bochow@cbs.de
CBS International Business School Hardefuststrasse 1 D-50677 Cologne Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/columbia-college:
A private, non-profit liberal arts and sciences college, Columbia College takes pride in small classes, experienced faculty and quality educational programmes.
Columbia, Missouri offers small-city charm in a culturally diverse community.
With a population of 120,000, including over 30,000 college students at three institutions, Columbia has earned the nickname "College Town, USA".
This atmosphere of culture and higher education creates a stimulating environment for all students.
Availability of this destination is subject to an agreement being signed and is currently unavailable for study abroad
Assistant Provost, International Programs Tel: 00 1 573 875 7558 Email: mwilkerson@ccis.edu
Columbia College International Admissions Office 1001 Rogers St, 65201, Columbia, MO USA

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/curtin-university:
Their largest campus, Curtin Perth, is located in the suburb of Bentley, about six kilometres south-east of central Perth.
In close proximity to everything Per­­th has to offer, it boasts 116 hectares of bold architecture nestled amongst beautifully landscaped gardens.
Please note that Curtin University is a fee-paying institution.
Law Subjects The School of Law and Social Sciences Email: g.mcgee1@rgu.ac.uk
Social Science Subjects The School of Law and Social Sciences Email: l.ruggerone@rgu.ac.uk
Gray's School of Art Email: c.campbell@rgu.ac.uk
Student Mobility Coordinator Email: GoGlobal@curtin.edu.au
Curtin University Kent St, Bentley WA 6102, Australia

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/danish-school-of-media-and-journalism-dmjx:
The Danish School of Media and Journalism (DMJX) is a training and knowledge centre for the media and communications sector with a focus on talent, innovation, lifelong learning and cooperation with industry.
School of Law and Social Sciences – Social Sciences Email: l.ruggerone@rgu.ac.uk
International Coordinator - Aarhus Campus Tel: 00 45 231 186 30 Email: anna@dmjx.dk
International Coordinator - Copenhagen Campus Email: xal@dmjx.dk
Danish School of Media and Journalism Helsingforsgade 6A-D DK- Aarhus N Denmark

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/duesseldorf-university-of-applied-sciences:
Today, the institution is one of the largest universities of applied sciences in the German Federal State of North Rhine-Westphalia and offers a comprehensive and interdisciplinary range of subjects.
Düsseldorf is well-loved by many and offers a high quality of life due to being one of Germany’s strongest economic regions.
Düsseldorf also has strong international ties, with numerous international corporations having set up their headquarters there, and it is also known as Germany’s capital of Fashion.
International Office Tel: 00 49 2114 351 8125 Email: incoming@hs-duesseldorf.de
Department of Design Tel: 00 49 2114 351 3248 Email: florian.boddin@hs-duesseldorf.de
Duesseldorf University of Applied Sciences B.
2, 1st floor, Münsterstr.
156, 40476 Düsseldorf, Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/ecole-nationale-superieure-d-architecture-de-grenoble:
The school is concerned with training both critical and constructive architects while preparing for the evolution of the profession.
Grenoble is a student city nestled at the foot of the mountains but open to the outside because it is located in the heart of Europe, very close to Switzerland, Italy and the Mediterranean Sea.
Known for its outdoor activities, its technological dynamism, its ecological concerns and its infrastructures conducive to sport and culture, the city is surrounded by 3 mountain ranges and offers to all those who set foot there a breath-taking landscape.
Tel: 00 33 4 76 69 83 13 Email: ensag.mobility@grenoble.archi.fr
Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture de Grenoble 60 Avenue de Constantine 38036 Grenoble Cedex F - 2 France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/ecole-nationale-superieure-d-architecture-et-de-paysage-de-lille:
These two courses allow the school to assert an original identity and to develop a true interdisciplinary approach in the fields of architecture, town planning and landscape.
Famous for its vibrancy, Lille is a dynamic city with an extremely rich and varied cultural life.
With more than 140,000 students, the Nord Pas-de-Calais region has the youngest population in France, making Lille a lively and student friendly town.
Tel: 00 33 3 20 61 95 18 Email: international@lille.archi.fr
Assistant Professor Tel: 00 33 3 20 61 95 18 Email: g-maury@lille.archi.fr
Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture et de Paysage de Lille Quartier de l'Hôtel de Ville 2 Rue Verte 59650 Villeneuve d'Ascq France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/ecole-superieure-d-art-et-design-de-saint-etienne-esadse:
Its international reach, built upon its policy of networking and exchanges of students, artists, designers, exhibitions and workshops, contributes to the School's dynamism.
Saint-Etienne is a city of 185,000 inhabitants, around 25,000 of which are students.
In 2010, Saint-Etienne became the first French City (and the second in Europe) to join the UNESCO Creative Cities network as a City of Design.
International Affairs Officer Tel: 00 33 4 77 47 88 56 Email: mobility@esadse.fr
Ecole Supérieure d'Art et Design de Saint-Etienne 3 rue Javelin Pagnon 42048 Saint-Etienne Cedex 1 France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/erasmushogeschool-brussel:
Brussels is a true melting pot where different nationalities, ideas and ways of life connect.
EhB offers a range of academic programmes and carries out applied and artistic research, which are embedded in the Brussels multicultural context.
Computing Subjects School of Computing, Engineering and Technology Email: m.zarb@rgu.ac.uk
Engineering Subjects School of Computing, Engineering and Technology Email: m.zarb@rgu.ac.uk
International Office Tel: 00 32 2 559 15 30 Email: international.office@ehb.be
Journalism Email: peter.mast@ehb.be
Hotel Management Email: diane.vermeulen@ehb.be
Applied Informatics Email: johan.van.den.broek@ehb.be
Multimedia and Communication Technologies Email: kobe.vermeire@ehb.be
Erasmushogeschool Brussel Nijverheidskaai 170 B-1070 Brussels Belgium

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/esc-clermont-business-school:
Clermont-Ferrand is a dynamic city and a great place to study with a low cost of living and a high quality of life.
It also has a large and active student population.
The city is located in the Auvergne region in the heart of France; this is an outstandingly unspoilt mountainous area, where leisure activities include skiing, hiking, mountain-biking, windsurfing and hang-gliding.
Clermont-Ferrand is famous for its chain of dormant volcanoes, the 'Chaîne des Puys' which surround it.
Aberdeen Business School Tel: 00 44 1224 263911 Email: ABSStudyAbroad@rgu.ac.uk
Aberdeen Business School Tel: 00 44 1224 263430 Email: ABSStudyAbroad@rgu.ac.uk
International Exchange Coordinator Tel: 00 33 473 982 449 Email: lisa.fiacre@esc-clermont.fr
Professor of Management Tel: 00 33 473 982 424 Email: mary.vigier@esc-clermont.fr
Clermont School of Business Erasmus Institutional Coordinator 4 boulevard Trudaine 63000 Clermont-Ferrand France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/esce-de-paris:
ESCE positions itself as one of the leading French Business schools and has always displayed its difference by placing the international factor at the heart of its teaching.
Two steps away from the Eiffel Tower, in the heart of Paris, the Eiffel Campus is a meeting point of multicultural exchanges between students and teachers from many different countries.
Easily accessible in terms of transport, it is an ideal place for students to study in and have a fulfilling student life.
International Office Tel: 00 33 1 81 51 15 81 Email: international@esce.fr
ESCE de Paris Pôle Universitaire Léonard de Vinci F-92916 Paris-La-Defense Cedex France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/hame-university-of-applied-science-hamk:
HAMK is situated centrally in the most populated area of the country, southern Finland, where about half of all Finns live.
Finland has regularly been named as one of the safest countries in the world.
However, safe doesn’t mean boring.
Finland is full of new experiences to be had, from bathing in a lakeside sauna to watching the Northern Lights.
Erasmus Institutional Coordinador Tel: 00 358 40 7514051 Email: riikka.kekalainen-alkio@hamk.fi
International Coordinator for Design Tel: 00 358 50 5745 280 Email: anna.huoviala@hamk.fi
International Coordinator for Nursing and Social Services Tel: 00 358 50 46 554 24 Email: jaana.malmisuo@hamk.fi
Häme University of Applied Sciences P.O.Box 230 FIN-13101 Hämeenlinna Finland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/hannover-university-of-applied-sciences-and-arts:
Internationally oriented and regionally anchored, the university offers an extraordinarily broad range of subjects with a high quality of education.
Located in north west Germany, Hannover has a population of around 530,000 people and is Germany’s 13th largest city.
The city’s vibrant and multicultural atmosphere is one of its renowned qualities, in addition to its cultural events and activities.
International Office Tel: 00 49 511 9296 3794 Email: hsh-incoming@hs-hannover.de
Faculty IV – Business and Computer Science Tel: 00 49 511 9296 1579 Email: F4-TIP@hs-hannover.de
Faculty III – Design Tel: 00 00 49 511 9296 2662 Email: Esther-Marie.Kroeger@hs-hannover.de
Hannover University of Applied Sciences and Arts Internationales Büro Postfach 92 02 51 30441 Hannover Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/hanze-university-of-applied-sciences:
Situated in the north of the Netherlands, Groningen is a young and vibrant student city, with half of its citizens under the age of 35.
Groningen has a population of 203,000 and boasts a picturesque and safe city centre, surrounded by relaxing countryside.
Tel: 00 31 50 595 7800 Email: exchange@org.hanze.nl
International Business School Tel: 00 31 50 595 4948 Email: e.carwithen@pl.hanze.nl
School of Law Tel: 00 31 50 595 2491 Email: a.grimme@pl.hanze.nl
Hanzehogeschool Groningen PO Box 30030 9700 RM Groningen The Netherlands

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/hu-university-of-applied-sciences-utrecht:
Studying at HU University of Applied Sciences means studying in a beautiful medieval city – one of the oldest in the Netherlands.
Hosting 70,000 students from 125 countries – almost a quarter of the city’s population – Utrecht is a real academic melting pot.
International Relations Officer Tel: 00 31 88 481 81 81 Email: exchange@hu.nl
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht PO Box 13102 3507 LC Utrecht The Netherlands

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/humber-polytechnic:
Toronto is one of the world’s most multicultural cities and is a welcoming place for everyone who visits, lives and studies there.
(Interim) International Mobility Coordinator Email: studyabroad@humber.ca
Humber Polytechnic 205 Humber Polytechnic Blvd Toronto ON M9W 5L7 Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/hwr-berlin:
The third-largest specialist business administration and economics institution in Germany, the HWR Berlin also ranks highly for its international focus thanks to its wide network of global partnerships.
Students at the HWR Berlin study in the centre of a city renowned for its flourishing cultural scene, fascinating history and a way of life that is both fast-paced and relaxed.
It is a city of contrasts: between East and West, between historical buildings and modern architecture, between the traditional and the modern, all of which makes Berlin a fascinating place to discover.
Incoming Coordinator Tel: 00 49 30 30877 1354 Email: incoming@hwr-berlin.de
Double Degree Coordinator Tel: 00 49 30 30877 1137 Email: doubledegree@hwr-berlin.de
HWR Berlin Badensche Strasse 52 10825 Berlin Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/inholland-university-of-applied-sciences:
More than 60% of the population live in the West of Holland known as the Randstad, which includes the four major cities of Amsterdam, The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht.
Rotterdam is the second largest city in the Netherlands and is known for its vibrant student life and lively culture.
International Officer Tel: 00 31 10 439 2220 Email: Intoffice@inholland.nl
International Coordinator – Business and Law Email: Irina.Rasseino@inholland.nl
Inholland University of Applied Sciences Posthumalaan 90 3072 AG Rotterdam The Netherlands

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/ism-school-of-management-and-economics:
ISM is conveniently located in the heart of Vilnius, capital of Lithuania, which is becoming increasingly popular due to its warming sense of history, enchanting medieval architecture and bustling cafe culture.
Incoming Student Coordinator Tel: 00 370 687 080 80 Email: international@ism.lt
ISM University of Management and Economics International Office Arkliu g.
18, Vilnius 01305, Lithuania

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/kajaani-university-of-applied-sciences:
Their campus facilities include a state-of-the-art data centre, game design labs, 3D printers, a robotics and virtual reality lab as well as a Smart Gym with a digitalised environment.
Kajaani itself is a small town with a population of 38,000.
The town has all the necessary services, yet is small enough to feel safe.
Student life in Kajaani is easy: distances are short and services are of a high standard.
Also, based on the national survey for graduating students in 2019, KAMK had the happiest students in Finland.
School of Health Tel: 00 44 1224 263276 Email: p.kirkpatrick@rgu.ac.uk
Head of International Affairs Tel: 00 358 44 7101 617 Email: meira.kaikkonen@kamk.fi
School of Business, School of Tourism, School of Sports Tel: 00 358 44 715 7021 Email: marjukka.turunen@kamk.fi
School of Nursing Tel: 00 358 44 7101 024 Email: jaana.harkonen@kamk.fi
Kajaani University of Applied Sciences International Office P.O.Box 52 87101 Kajaani Finland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/kea:
KEA offers practice-oriented, higher education developed in close cooperation with the business community and educational institutions in Denmark and abroad.
International Coordinator for KEA Digital Tel: 00 45 4088 3665 Email: annd@kea.dk
International Coordinator for Tech + Build Tel: 00 45 2148 0134 Email: andb@kea.dk
KEA Prinsesse Charlottes Gade 38 DK-2200 Kobenhavn N Denmark

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/kedge-business-school:
Kedge has 3 campuses located throughout France and has around 15,000 students enrolled; 25% of which are international students.
Marseille is the perfect blend of big city atmosphere and fishing-village sociability.
With more sun and less bustle than most French cities, it is one of the most attractive destinations.
The city is divided into arrondissements, called quartiers.
Each of them has a unique soul, just like tiny villages.
Vibrant, calm, classy, young, edgy: get your walking shoes ready and start wandering if you want to discover all aspects of Marseille.
International Student Office Tel: 00 33 491 827 978 Email: Incoming@kedgebs.com
Tel: 00 33 491 827 829 Email: veronique.spanu@kedgebs.com
Kedge Business School 7 Boulevard Dunkerque, 13002 Marseille, France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/keimyung-university:
It is committed to delivering a world-class education, providing a full and dynamic university experience, and pursuing strong international links to advance knowledge.
Located in the South-central region of South Korea, Daegu is a big metropolitan city with a small and friendly feel to it.
Daegu is famous for its rich and ancient culture, as well as being the self-proclaimed fashion capital of Korea due to its notable textile industry.
Law Subjects School of Law and Social Sciences Email: g.mcgee1@rgu.ac.uk
Inbound Coordinator Tel: 00 82 53 580 6023 Email: pjkim@kmu.ac.kr
Keimyung University 1095, Dalgubeol-daero, Dalseo-gu, Daegu, South Korea

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/koblenz-university-of-applied-sciences:
Almost 10,000 students are now studying at three locations in Koblenz, Remagen and Höhr-Grenzhausen.
Excellent equipment, modern laboratories and great practical relevance make studying at the university particularly attractive.
Whether you are a big-city person or someone who enjoys the calm friendliness of a small town with a close community, Remagen is ideal for you.
The town is situated on the river Rhine, near Bonn, and has all the services and comforts you might want, for instance, shops, restaurants, weekly markets where you can buy fresh food, and a Christmas market in winter.
International Coordinator Tel: 00 49 261 9528 751 Email: incoming@hs-koblenz.de
Koblenz University of Applied Sciences International Office Konrad-Zuse-Str.
1 D-56075 Koblenz Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/laurea-university-of-applied-sciences:
The campuses of Laurea are located in and around Finland’s capital region.
Its location close to the capital city – Helsinki, gives exchange students great opportunities for entertainment and exploration.
Over the past few years Laurea has been ranked high in the evaluations of Finnish Universities of Applied Sciences, and it has been recognized many times in categories such as quality of education.
Laurea can proudly say that it belongs to the top when it comes to success in Finland’s education field.
Planning Officer, International Affairs Tel: 00 358 41 529 8770 Email: paivi.haapanen@laurea.fi
Laurea University of Applied Sciences International Office Keskikatu 3a 04200 Kerava Finland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/linkoeping-university:
In the same spirit, the university offers innovative educational programmes, many of them with a clear vocational focus.
Over the past 50 years, Linköping has grown to become Sweden’s fifth-largest municipality, with 160,000 inhabitants.
Despite its rapid growth, Linköping still has the charm of a small town.
The city centre is easy to reach from Campus Valla, about a ten-minute bike ride.
The inner city offers plenty of entertainment opportunities: theatre plays, museums, concerts and student skits locally called “spex”.
Cafés, bars, restaurants and nightclubs located downtown will cater to all tastes.
International Coordinator Tel: 00 46 13 28 1719 Email: international@ffk.liu.se
Linköping University SE-581 83 Linköping Sweden

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/mainz-university-of-applied-sciences:
Just a short trip away: from Mainz as a university location to the banking metropolis of Frankfurt, from Hessen’s capital of Wiesbaden to the beautiful hills of Rhine-Hesse, from Frankfurt Airport to the rest of the world.
It is the combination of economic power, scenic diversity and a rich culture that makes the Rhine-Main region particularly attractive for many people.
Surrounded by wine hills, its beautiful historic old-town, and two rivers gives the city of Mainz a young and vivid atmosphere.
International Office Tel: 00 49 6131 628 7363 Email: sabine.klebig@hs-mainz.de
Mainz University of Applied Sciences International Office Lucy-Hillebrand-Str.
2 55128 Mainz Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/montana-state-university-billings:
At MSUB, exchange students have access to an array of amenities and engaging activities for an active, happy, and healthy lifestyle.
Students have the flexibility to take a wide range of classes and interact with a diverse international student population, as well as local Montanan students.
Class sizes are typically small, with an average of 18 students, so there are ample opportunities to engage in the classroom and to meet peers.
The campus is also located within walking distance to the Billings downtown district, which offers a plethora of dining and entertainment options.
Additionally, Billings is a close drive to two of the most popular national parks in the U.S., Glacier and Yellowstone.
Study Abroad Coordinator Tel: 00 1 406 657 1761 Email: abby.cook1@msubillings.edu
MSU Billings 1500 University Drive Billings Montana, 59101-0298 USA

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/mount-royal-university:
MRU welcomes students from around the world to study at their state-of-the-art Lincoln Park Campus, with breath-taking views of the Rocky Mountains.
School of Law and Social Sciences – Social Sciences Tel: 00 44 1224 263206 Email: l.ruggerone@rgu.ac.uk
Inbound Exchange Coordinator Email: vjarmuske@mtroyal.ca Phone: 00 1 403 440 7029
Mount Royal University 4825 Mt Royal Gate SW Calgary AB T3E 6K6 Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/oklahoma-state-university-osu:
Nicknamed ‘America’s Friendliest College Town’, Stillwater’s welcoming spirit is rooted in Oklahoma history and the diversity forged by OSU.
Students from across the U.S.
and more than 100 countries converge on this campus creating a vibrant and inclusive culture.
With a student-to-faculty ratio of 20:1, OSU will help you prepare for the future by providing the academic support you need.
Student Exchange Co-ordinator Tel: 00 1 405 744 2810 Email: judy.parrott@okstate.edu
Oklahoma State University Stillwater OK 74078 USA

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/politecnico-di-milano:
The University has always focused on the quality and innovation of its teaching and research, and is home to over 46,000 students – 6,700 of which are international students.
Politecnico di Milano is located in Milan, capital of Lombardy, and the second-most populous city in Italy, and is recognised as the global capital of fashion and design.
International Mobility Unit Tel: 00 39 02 23 99 97 34 Email: exchange-bovisa@polimi.it
Department of Design Email: alba.cappellieri@polimi.it
Department of Architecture and Urban Studies Email: fabrizio.leoni@polimi.it
Politecnico di Milano Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32 I-201 33 Milano Italy

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/pxl-university-of-applied-sciences:
PXL aim to play a pioneering role in the application of new information and communication technologies in education.
This means that developing your skills, as they are needed in professional life, is central to their mission.
School of Health Email: p.kirkpatrick@rgu.ac.uk
Institutional Coordinator Tel:  00 32 11 77 56 21 Email: Incoming@PXL.BE
PXL MAD School of Arts Tel: 00 32 11 23 88 30 Email: dirk.kenis@pxl.be
PXL Healthcare Tel: 00 32 11 77 52 10 Email: mimi.market@pxl.be
PXL University College Elfde Liniestraat 24 - Building A B-3500 HASSELT Belgium

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/salzburg-university-of-applied-sciences:
Due to its idyllic location in one of the most beautiful areas of Austria, all locations of the Salzburg University of Applied Sciences offer a wonderful study environment.
With its international outlook and focus on innovative research and teaching, the university is a pioneer of future-oriented degree programmes and practice-oriented solutions for business and society.
Tel: 00 43 50 2211 1034 Email: international@fh-salzburg.ac.at
Departmental Contact - Tourism International Departmental Coordinator Tel: 00 43 50 2211 1031 Email: amelie.arrer@fh-salzburg.ac.at
Departmental Contact - Nursing International Departmental Coordinator Tel: 00 43 57 2552 0659 Email: christoph.meinhart@fh-salzburg.ac.at
Salzburg University of Applied Sciences Urstein Sued 1 5412 Puch/Salzburg Austria

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/saxion-university-of-applied-sciences:
The international student population at Saxion has doubled in the past two years, and in view of Saxion’s focus on internationalisation there is little doubt that this figure will continue to grow.
The total currently stands at 3,500 students from outside of the Netherlands, which is an impressive 14% of the total number of students.
Saxion University of Applied Sciences has three campuses in the East of the Netherlands - one campus in each of the three Dutch cities of Deventer, Enschede and Apeldoorn.
Tel: 00 31 88 019 37 89 Email: internationaloffice@saxion.nl
International Business Email: m.l.perik@saxion.nl
Human Resource Management Email: r.estevez@saxion.nl
Computer Science Email: j.w.bollen@saxion.nl
Hospitality Business School Email: a.eros@saxion.nl
Fashion and Textile Technologies Email: e.f.w.eijkelenkamp@saxion.nl
Saxion University of Applied Sciences Postbus 501 7400 AM Deventer The Netherlands

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/selkirk-college:
Selkirk College is large enough to provide quality student services and facilities, yet small enough to offer individual support, small class sizes and an extra dose of attention not found in most post-secondary institutions.
School Chair, Selkirk International Tel: 00 1 888 953 1133 Ext.
21376 Email: pspence@selkirk.ca
Selkirk College 301 Frank Beinder Way Castlegar BC V1N 4L3 Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/seneca-polytechnic:
Seneca is at the forefront of providing student-focused teaching and learning that is redefining how people think about post-secondary education.
Global Mobility Coordinator Tel: 00 1 416 764 9229 Email: global.learning@senecapolytechnic.ca
Seneca Polytechnic 1750 Finch Ave E Toronto ON M2J 2X5 Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/southern-utah-university:
Touting the world’s best backyard, SUU lies in proximity to the largest concentration of national parks and monuments in the United States.
In addition to SUU's outdoor adventure activities, SUU is at the forefront of academic research with a commitment to a personalized student experience leading to personal growth, civic responsibility, and professional excellence.
Learning Abroad Coordinator Tel: 00 1 435 586 1992 Email: zoeprettyman@suu.edu
Southern Utah University 351 W Center St, Cedar City, UT 84720, United States

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/taylor-s-university:
Their exhaustive list of accolades ranges from national to international, a testimony to their unwavering commitment towards excellence in teaching and learning, and high impact research.
Taylor’s University is located in Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia, which is a bustling cosmopolitan hub for students who seek a vibrant lifestyle.
Assistant Manager, Global Mobility Tel: 00 60 356 296 613 Email: Shamila.Ganapaty@taylors.edu.my
Taylor's University No.
1 Jalan Taylor's 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/tio-business-school:
At Tio you can study in international teams and meet students from all over the world.
Tio has international campuses in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht.
Tio offers small-scale and high-quality education with challenging curricula and appealing projects, making it a great place for Dutch and international students to study.
Head of International Office Tel: 00 31 30 799 90 00 Email: internationaloffice@tio.nl
Tio Business School St Jacobsstraat 400 3511 BT Utrecht The Netherlands

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/toulouse-business-school:
Offering cutting-edge business education to over 5,000 students, TBS is dedicated to providing students with the analytical skills, professional network and agility needed to adapt, innovate, and anticipate change in their future working environments.
Toulouse is awash with culture, art, industry and architecture.
Its excellent weather, relaxed atmosphere, and café and bar culture enable students to move easily between academic and social worlds.
Whether your passion is for the mountains, the beach, art and culture, or French cuisine, Toulouse has something to offer everyone.
International Mobility Coordinator Tel: 00 33 5 61 29 46 13 Email: incoming.bachelor@tbs-education.fr
Toulouse Business School 20 Boulevard Lascrosses 31068, Toulouse France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/turku-university-of-applied-sciences-tuas:
Studies at TUAS are working life oriented, combining theoretical studies with professional skills.
Turku, a city of 180,000 inhabitants and home to nearly 40,000 students, is a lively town with an international atmosphere.
Although one of the biggest cities in Finland, Turku is still small enough that you can go almost everywhere by foot or bike.
Whether you are interested in culture or sports, strolling in the city or wandering in nature, you can find it all in Turku.
Head of International Affairs Email: anu.harkonen@turkuamk.fi
Faculty of Engineering and Business Email: TELI.international@turkuamk.fi
Turku University of Applied Sciences Joukahaisenkatu 3 20520 Turku Finland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/universidad-ceu-san-pablo:
It is one of the oldest private schools in Spain and is a prestigious and solid educational institution with more than 80 years of experience in high-level teaching.
CEU is located in Madrid, capital of Spain, which is a popular study abroad choice for students from all over the world due to its dynamic culture and lively atmosphere.
Head of International Office Tel: 00 34 91 514 01 05 Email: international.office@ceu.es
School of Economics and Business Studies Tel: 00 34 91 456 63 00/ Ext.
5492 Email: marlaso@ceu.es
School of Humanities and Communication Sciences Tel: 00 34 91 456 42 00/ Ext.
4222 Email: delgado.fhm@ceu.es
Universidad CEU San Pablo Julian Romea 23 28003 Madrid Spain

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/liuc-business-university:
LIUC is located in the North-West part of Italy, between Milan (the city of fashion and design) and Varese (the Garden City).
Castellanza is within short driving distance to the lakes district including Como and Maggiore, the Alps, and the Genoa coast.
Castellanza has 14,000 inhabitants and a large student population, making it a small and safe town but also the perfect launchpad to explore Italy and Europe.
International Office Tel: 00 39 0331 57 22 95 Email: ccolombo@liuc.it
LIUC Business University C.
so Matteotti 22 21053 Castellanza (VA) Italy

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/universite-catholique-de-lyon:
Lyon is a cultural capital in the heart of Europe, located in the centre of France, near the ski slopes of the Alps.
There are over 144,500 students living in Lyon, which is more than 10% of Lyon’s total population!
School of Law and Social Sciences Email: g.mcgee1@rgu.ac.uk
Head of International Relations Office Tel: 00 33 4 72 32 50 79 Email: ri@univ-catholyon.fr
ESDES Business School of UCLy Tel: 00 33 4 72 32 67 37 Email: esdes.rel.int@univ-catholyon.fr
International Relations - Faculty of Law Tel: 00 33 4 26 84 18 69 Email: fac.droit.international@univ-catholyon.fr
Université Catholique de Lyon 10, place des Archives 69002 Lyon France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/rheinmain-university-of-applied-sciences:
As a university of applied sciences, the university places particular emphasis on offering practice-driven education.
This goal is achieved by providing campus laboratories, adjunct instructors from the industry, practical projects and internship semesters in Germany and abroad.
As a partner university for elite sport, the Rheinmain University of Applied Sciences aids elite sportsmen and sportswomen in reconciling studying with their sports career.
Supporting Exchange Students, Buddy Program Tel: 00 49 611 9495 1625 Email: incoming@hs-rm.de
RheinMain University of Applied Sciences Büro für Internationales – International Office Postfach 3251 65022 Wiesbaden Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/universidad-de-alicante:
Due to its historical influences, excellent location and magnificent connections, the University is a diverse-oriented and welcoming university with one of the best campuses in Spain, not only in terms of infrastructure, but also in terms of landscaping, sustainability and gender equality.
Alicante is a port city located on the Mediterranean Coast.
It is the second biggest municipality in the region of Valencia and has a dry, Mediterranean climate with mild winters and hot summers.
Erasmus/Exchange Coordinator Tel: 00 34 96 590 3400 Email: student.mobility@ua.es
Faculty of Health Sciences - Academic Co-ordinator Email: estela.gonzalez@ua.es
Polytechnic School - Academic Co-ordinator Email: jose.parra@ua.es
Universidad de Alicante Campus San Vicente del Raspieg Apartado de correos 99 E-03080 Alicante Spain

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-angers:
With over 300 international partners across the globe and an ever-growing list of dual degrees, the University of Angers has a distinct international dimension.
Angers is a young and lively university city which is home to nearly 40,000 students.
Located at the edge of the Loire Valley, Angers is noted for its culture, green spaces, diverse activities and quality of life.
Incoming Exchange Student Office Tel: 00 33 2 44 68 86 43 Email: echange.international@univ-angers.fr
Faculty of Tourism and Culture Email: francoise.ingremeau@univ-angers.fr
University of Angers 40 rue de Rennes 49035 Angers Cedex 01 France

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-finance-and-administration-vsfs-prague:
Located in the very heart of Europe, Prague gives advantageous opportunity for students who wish to travel in Europe.
Currently, VSFS has around 3600 students in total; more than 1000 of which are international students from over 40 countries around the world.
Tel: 00 420 210 088 819 Email: erasmus@vsfs.cz
University of Finance and Administration (VSFS) Prague Estonská 500/3 101 00 Praha 10-Vršovice Czech Republic

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/universidad-de-granada:
The University is the highest-ranked in the South of Spain, and receives more than 2,000 Erasmus students every year, making it the most popular Erasmus destination in Europe.
Granada is, first and foremost, a university city.
It has a population of 240,000 people, 75,000 of which are students, lecturers, researchers and administrative and service staff directly linked to the UGR, meaning that a staggering 1 in every 3 inhabitants is directly linked to the University.
As a result, a lively student atmosphere has flourished here, giving rise to the development of a modern, multicultural and vibrant study destination that welcomes people from all backgrounds.
Sport Science Subjects School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health Email: k.burgess@rgu.ac.uk
Pharmacy and Applied Science Subject School of Pharmacy, Applied Sciences and Public Health Email: a.welgamage-don@rgu.ac.uk
Faculty of Science Tel: 00 34 958 242 389 Email: manuelmartinezgomez@ugr.es
Faculty of Science Tel: 00 34 958 246 298 Email: ricienc@ugr.es
Universidad de Granada Complejo Advmo.
Triunfo.
Cuesto del Hospicio s/n E-18071 Granada Spain

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-kassel:
Receptivity, initiative, transdisciplinary thinking and unconventionality are all traits cherished and welcomed by the university.
Kassel is a city of cultural wealth and diversity with more than 1000 years of history.
“Documenta", an exhibition of contemporary art, takes place every five years in the city.
Kassel is also the "Capital of the German Fairy Tale Route".
The Grimm Brothers spent the most significant period of their lives here devoted to gathering and consolidating fairy tales and researching German linguistics.
Even today there are many sights to visit in Kassel.
Magnificent parks, world famous art works, historical monuments and cultural institutions attract millions of visitors every year.
Erasmus Institutional Coordinator Tel: 00 49 561 804 2539 Email: erasmus@uni-kassel.de
University of Kassel Mönchebergstraße 19, 34125 Kassel, Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-seoul:
UOS was reported to be the best value public university in South Korea, due to high financial investment, and has ranked high in student satisfaction over recent years.
Seoul is a dynamic city where places to spend leisure time are easily accessible, making student life in Seoul fun and active.
Inbound Exchange, UOS IICE Tel: 00 82 2 6490 6657 Email: exchangein@uos.ac.kr
University of Seoul 163 Seoulsiripdae-ro, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, South Korea

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/pforzheim-university:
The schools combine creativity with business education and technical precision.
This combination also makes the university an attractive science and research partner for the regional and national economy.
With around 6,200 students, Pforzheim University - founded in 1877 - is one of the largest universities of applied sciences in the state of Baden-Württemberg.
International Office Tel: 00 49 7231 28 6147 Email: aaa@hs-pforzheim.de
Hochschule Pforzheim Tiefenbronner Str.
65 75175 Pforzheim Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-stuttgart:
It is one of the leading technically oriented universities in Germany with global significance.
Stuttgart is located in the South of Germany in the state of Baden-Württemberg, with a population of around 632,743 people.
It is one of the most preferred student cities in Europe, offering numerous study programmes and opportunities to advance career-wise.
International Office Tel: 00 49 711 685 685 71 Email: incoming@ia.uni-stuttgart.de
Erasmus Coordinator for the Faculty of Architecture and Urban Planning Tel: 00 49 711 685 82762 Email: international@f01.uni-stuttgart.de
University of Stuttgart Postfach 10 60 37 70049 Stuttgart Germany

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-tasmania:
Affectionately known as ‘Tassie’ by the locals, the island is famous for its pure air, clear skies and stunning natural beauty.
45% of the island is made up of National Parks and World Heritage sites, and is the perfect mix of land meets sea.
The University of Tasmania is the only university on the island meaning they offer a wide array of study areas.
It boasts exceptional teaching staff at three locations across the state; their nationally-distinctive architecture course will give you access to real-life learning experiences.
An exchange to Australia’s deep south will provide you with a diverse study experience, one that will enrich you academically, socially and culturally.
Study Abroad & Exchange Coordinator Tel: 00 61 3 6226 1805 Email: Student.Mobility@utas.edu.au
University of Tasmania Churchill Ave Hobart TAS 7005 Australia

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-the-basque-country:
Yet, they not only have a high esteem for tradition, but are also remarkably forward-looking and have established a highly regarded industrial sector.
The University is an open and inclusive institution; which receives hundred of international visitors every year.
People in Basque Country are friendly, optimistic and good tempered; the vibrant cultural life of the regions cities turns, at dusk, into a varied, pepped nightlife.
Tel: 00 34 94 301 8136 Email: agreements.international@ehu.eus
Faculty of Computer Science Tel: 00 34 94 301 5563 Email: informatica.internacional@ehu.eus
University of the Basque Country Barrio Sarriena, s/n, 48940 Leioa, Vizcaya, Spain

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-tulsa:
Tulsa used to be the ‘oil capital of the world’ and now is a place for arts, innovation and developed industries such as oil and gas, aerospace, media and logistics.
The University of Tulsa has around 4,500 students and prides itself on its close-knit community and low faculty to student ratio.
Education Abroad Email: rachael-brown@utulsa.edu
University of Tulsa 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 USA

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-victoria:
UVic’s extraordinary academic environment inspires exploration and innovation, which will enrich your university experience like no other.
As a mid-sized university, UVic is big enough to make an impact globally, but small enough to have a great community feel.
You’re also in good company: over 70% of students come to UVic from outside Victoria, and more than 3,400 international students represent 100 different nationalities.
Tel: 00 1 250 472 5263 Email: goglobal@uvic.ca
International and Exchange Student Services Office University of Victoria 3800 Finnerty Rd.
Victoria BC V8P 5C2, Canada

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/university-of-wroclaw:
It is the largest university in the region, teaching over 26,000 students, and is known for providing high quality education.
Wroclaw, located in Western Poland, is a dynamic city of culture with a large student population that often ranks among the most liveable cities in Europe.
School of Law and Social Sciences - Social Sciences Email: l.ruggerone@rgu.ac.uk
Erasmus Institutional Co-ordinator Tel: 00 48 71 3752 703 Email: barbara.skalacka-harrold@uwr.edu.pl
Institute of Pedagogy Tel: 00 48 71 3672 001 Email: justyna.pilarska@uwr.edu.pl
University of Wroclaw Pl.
Uniwersytecki 1 50-137 Wroclaw Poland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/uppsala-universitet:
In Uppsala, more than 40,000 students are seen, heard and make their mark everywhere.
It is no wonder, since they have been part of the city since 1477.
They have created traditions and continue to create these, something that made Uppsala the student city it is today.
Experience a unique student life in Uppsala involving six student unions, 13 student nations and a wide variety of student organisations.
International Coordinator Tel: 00 46 18 471 29 69 Email: ulrika.jaresund@it.uu.se
Uppsala Universitet Box 256 SE-751 05 Uppsala Sweden

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/via-university-college:
As an international student, you will never be alone – VIA welcomes around 3,000 international students each year.
Independence in learning, personal responsibility and freedom characterize the student experience at VIA.
Design and Business Tel: 00 45 8755 4007 Email: international@via.dk
International Coordinator, VIA Multiplatform Storytelling and Production Tel: 00 45 8755 1511 Email: kreb@via.dk
VIA University College Birk Centerpark 5 DK-7400 HERNING Denmark

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/vives-university-of-applied-sciences:
VIVES is open to the world; working closely with export-oriented local and regional organisations.
This includes businesses in the agro-industry, hospitals, training centres for primary and secondary schools and centres for social guidance and counselling.
International Relations Officer
Tel:  00 32 56 26 41 64 Email: melanie.carbonelle@vives.be
Coordinator International Relations - Applied Social Studies
Email: eveline.leroy@vives.be
VIVES University College Doorniksesteenweg 145 B-8500 Kortrijk Belgium

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/a-z-partner-institutions/zurich-university-of-applied-sciences-zhaw:
Situated right in the heart of Europe, and with the commercial, financial, and cultural centre of Zurich on its doorstep, it has everything you need for an unforgettable exchange experience.
Excellent travel connections in all directions make ZHAW an ideal starting point from which to combine academic study with a voyage of discovery.
In addition, Switzerland, famous for its beautiful landscapes and unspoiled nature, offers a wealth of outdoor activities, leisure facilities, cultural sites, and events to ensure that you will never be short of something interesting to do.
Incoming Exchange Coordinator – School of Management and Law Tel: 00 41 58 934 73 05 Email: sandra.aerne@zhaw.ch
School of Engineering Tel: 00 41 58 934 47 44 Email: exchange.engineering@zhaw.ch
Zurich University of Applied Sciences St Georgenplatz 2 8400 Winterthur Switzerland

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/information-for-parents:
Answers to the questions you'll be asking if your child is undertaking Study Abroad as part of their RGU course.
There are many benefits to studying abroad and these include:
The majority of study periods abroad offered by RGU are for one semester only – this can range from 3 months up to 6 months.
Exceptionally, some students may study abroad for a whole Academic Session.
No.
RGU has developed partnerships with universities which teach in English.
While students will find it useful to have some knowledge of the host language to help them in everyday life, it is not essential for their learning.
No, with the exception some students in the School of Computing, Engineering and Technology who have to switch to a 5 year route.
Providing students successfully pass their study period abroad, no additional time will be added to their degree.
However, if they fail to achieve the learning outcomes, they may have to repeat that semester.
Providing students follow an approved course of study at a partner university and successfully pass, their study period abroad will count towards their RGU degree.
We have 2 main deadlines per year, usually in January and April*.
These are advertised around the University.
Students will have the opportunity to choose up to 3 destinations.
However, we cannot guarantee that students will be allocated a place at one of their selected destinations as places are limited.
*Note that deadlines may differ from School to School.
For more information about school specific deadlines, visit our how to apply webpage .
As academic work undertaken on study abroad counts towards a student's RGU degree, staff check that the curriculum on offer is an appropriate match to the relevant RGU degree course.
Consequently, we can only exchange students with universities where we already have an exchange partnership in place.
There is no guarantee that students going on a study period abroad will receive Turing funding.
Funding is awarded on an annual basis and the University applies for this every year.
Providing the University is awarded funding, we will endeavour to award a grant to as many eligible students as possible.
It has not yet been confirmed if the Turing Scheme will run in 2025/26.
If the University is successful in its application for Turing Scheme funding, grants may be available for study abroad in any country.
If the mobility is a mandatory part of their course, students may be able to apply to SAAS for travel costs.
You would need to contact SAAS directly for guidance.
Students apply for a Turing grant when they apply to go on study abroad.
The application contains basic information such as name, address, date of birth etc.
If a student is selected to go on study abroad, the International Exchanges Manager will send all the mandatory paperwork directly to the student.
Turing grants are intended to be complementary to any funding that the student already receives.
They are not intended to cover all additional costs
It is expected that any funding/loans will carry on while the student is abroad as if they were still here at RGU.
Turing grants are calculated on rates provided to RGU by the Department for Education (DfE), who run the Turing Scheme on behalf of the UK Government.
They advise institutions on the maximum grants that can be paid to students.
Grants are initially calculated on the official semester dates of the host university but the final amount is calculated on the actual physical dates that a students studies/attends in exams in their host country.
Students have an attendance certificate signed on arrival overseas to confirm their start date and also have it signed again when they leave to confirm their end date.
They must return this certificate, along with copies of their boarding passes, to the Study Abroad within 2 weeks of their arrival in country and then again within 2 weeks of their departure.
The dates on this certificate are used to calculate the final amount of grant due.
If there are anomalies between the dates on the Attendance Certificate and Boarding Passes, these will be followed up with the student.
Turing grants are paid in 2 instalments.
The first instalment represents 80% of the total anticipated grant.
The second instalment is released once a student’s study period has ended and the student has returned their Attendance Certificate and submitted an online report.
The amount of the second instalment will depend on the actual dates on the student's Attendance Certificate.
Grants are paid directly into students’ bank accounts.
The majority of our partners do not charge RGU students tuition fees, but there are some exceptions such as Curtin University, Boston University and Southern Utah University.
Students going to these institutions will have to pay tuition fees.
There is no financial assistance towards these fees.
Tuition fees will still have to be paid to RGU in the normal manner.
Travel expenses are not paid separately – the Turing grant can be used towards these.
If mobility is mandatory, SAAS may pay travel expenses.
Please contact SAAS directly for more information.
It depends on when the student returns.
The minimum duration for a Turing study period is 1 month.
If the student meets the relevant minimum requirement, they will be allowed to retain a pro-rata amount of grant, providing they submit a completed attendance certificate and boarding passes to confirm their start and end date.
If the student returns without meeting the minimum duration, it may be possible for them to retain a pro-rata amount, however, DfE will make the decision.
The student will have to provide evidence for their early return as well as a completed Attendance Certificate.
These are then submitted to DfE who will decide whether a pro-rata amount can be retained or not.
In the event of an early return, the student may have to repay some, or all, of their Turing grant.
If this is the case, arrangements can be made for this repayment to be made in instalments.
There are many pre-paid credit cards available specifically designed with travellers in mind.
Many of these do not charge withdrawal/transaction fees when used abroad and it is easy to add money to these.
Students will also have to apply to their host institution to become a student there.
Deadlines vary depending on the host institution – some of them are very early.
This information is sent to the students by the Study Abroad Team but is also available to them on CampusMoodle.
If a student is going on study abroad abroad the International Exchanges Manager will send them the following documentation prior to their departure:
This will depend on where they go to on their study period abroad.
Some institutions will provide halls of residence, others will provide private accommodation, and in some instances, students may have to find their own private accommodation.
However, the host institution is bound to assist the students in finding accommodation – although this can range from allocating them a room in a hall of residence through to simply providing a list of private providers, and everything in between.
This depends on where the student goes as not all institutions have halls of residence.
You should be aware that the term “student accommodation” can vary from country to country – e.g.
in some Dutch institutions, private flats that are rented out to students via an external agency other than the institution itself may be classed as student accommodation.
It should not be assumed that exchange students will be housed with other students, exchange or full-time.
This will vary from institution to institution.
Some may only provide accommodation in student residences.
Others may work with external agencies and will pass these details on to students.
Some may simply provide a list of internet links to private providers.
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that they apply for accommodation, in whatever guise it is offered.
Standards of student accommodation vary from country to country.
In some countries, it is common for students to share bedrooms.
Kitchen facilities may be limited in some student housing as students usually eat on campus where food is sold at a subsidised price.
RGU's Travel Cover will provide some cover, but not if the student travels before or after their mobility period; travels frequently while they are overseas or takes a longer trip.
If they are planning on undertaking a lot of travel, they should take out their own study abroad insurance policy.
Natives returning to their home country (e.g.
a French person returning to France) are unlikely to be covered by RGU's insurance policy.
Contact insurance@rgu.ac.uk for further information about the policy.
If you require any further information on RGU's travel cover, please contact insurance@rgu.ac.uk
In the event of a medical emergency, wherever possible, students should contact their own insurance company in the first instance.
However, if they are relying solely on RGU’s Travel Cover then they should contact IMG (International Medical Group), especially before incurring any substantial costs for hospital admissions, surgery etc.
Their number is on the Student Travel Information Card.
If it is a routine medical problem, they should go to a local doctor.
The host institution should be able to provide information on providers that they recommend.
This depends on the country the student is in.
It may be that they will have to pay medical fees, fees for prescriptions etc.
up front and then make a claim on their insurance policy/RGU Travel Cover.
In this event, they must obtain receipts for all costs incurred as these will be required by the insurance company.
As with all insurance policies, there is no guarantee that all claims will be paid.
Students are strongly advised to take out a Study Abroad insurance policy as RGU's Travel Cover policy will not provide cover if students undertake frequent travel or undertake a trip of longer than 4 nights away from their host city.
Students who are UK nationals, or EU nationals who are no longer eligible for an EHIC from their home country, going on a study period to Europe which is longer than 6 weeks need to apply for a special study abroad GHIC.
They must apply for this online, along with an official letter from RGU confirming the details of their study period abroad.
This letter will be sent to the student along with their study abroad paperwork.
Further information is available on the NHS website:
The GHIC entitles the bearer to the same treatment as a national of the country where treatment is being sought.
It should not be presumed that medical treatment and/or medications will be given for free.
It is very common for students to become homesick when they first start their exchange - there is so much to negotiate including a different culture, language, lifestyle, food etc.
Although homesickness can be tough, it can be worked through and it does go away after a few weeks.
We would always encourage students to try and work through their homesickness - and, if they need to, seek professional help from their host institution.
Usually after 2 weeks, these feelings settle as students become more used to their surroundings.
Students can also access the wellbeing services and online support platforms offered by RGU.
In the event that a student does return home and they have received a Turing grant, there is a chance that they may have to repay the full sum awarded.
Although the student is not physically on the RGU campus, they are still an RGU student and staff here are still available to support them and provide advice.
Students will also be classed as full-time students at the host institution and all facilities available to their full-time students will be available to the RGU student - this includes counselling and other services.
We understand that emergencies happen and sometimes students have to return home.
If the student returns for a short period (e.g.
from a couple of days to a couple of weeks), this should not be an issue, but it is always wise to ensure that both RGU and the host institution are kept informed.
If the student has to cut short his/her study period for an emergency, you should let RGU staff know as soon as possible as there may be repercussions:
Yes, SAAS should be told when a student is undertaking an exchange.
You can send this to the International Exchanges Manager:
Study Abroad Team Centre for Employability and Community Engagement Ishbel Gordon Building Robert Gordon University Garthdee Road Aberdeen AB10 7QG
or by email to studyabroad@rgu.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/outgoing-students/outgoing-students-how-to-apply:
Get the application forms, deadlines and information you need to apply to Study Abroad as part of your RGU course.
Information about application methods and procedures can be found on CampusMoodle:
If you are a direct entry student, or do not have access to CampusMoodle for another reason, you can check out the destinations that may be available for your course.
Not all destinations are available for each course.
You should then think about what you want to do and discuss it with your family and friends.
We can also put you in touch with students who have recently been abroad and perhaps someone who is currently undertaking their study abroad period.
To apply, you will need to complete an online application form.
At this stage, the application is an indication of interest only, you will not be committed to anything at this point.
Before you can access the application form, you will have to register on the right hand side of the portal - your RGU login details will not work!
You will have the opportunity to select up to 3 destinations – ensure that you list them in order of preference.
We cannot guarantee that we will be able to give you one of your preferred destinations as places are limited at each institution.
In this instance, the written section of your application will be taken into account, so don't write "I will go anywhere" if you don't actually mean it!
This application form will also be your application for a Turing grant, however, funding is not guaranteed.
You will be asked to upload a budget breakdown with your application to show that you have considered the costs of studying abroad and that you can afford them.
This can be in any format, but should includes costs such as flights, accommodation, living expenses, books, bills etc.
This is to assist you in assessing the costs associated with study abroad.
Once you have clicked “submit”, your application will automatically be sent to the Study Abroad Team – you will also be able to download a PDF copy of the form so that you have a record of what you have submitted.
You should receive an automated email to confirm receipt - this will come from the software we use, MoveON, so check your junk mail.
You can log back into the portal at any time to look over your application again.
After the deadline, your application will be forwarded to your School’s International Exchange Coordinator.
This will be sent to you via your RGU email address.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/incoming-students:
Find out about the courses on offer for incoming exchange students, application deadlines, English requirements, fee-paying options and why RGU is the perfect destination for you.
Get the application forms and information you need to apply to be an Exchange student at RGU.
From visas and funding to travel arrangements, find out more about all the little important bits you'll need to know to study at RGU through Exchange.
Members of staff from our partner universities can nominate their students who will be attending RGU in the next academic year.
Find out about our learning & support facilities and why RGU is the perfect location to study as part of an Exchange.
Accommodation options for incoming exchange students, including University managed and private accommodation.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/incoming-students/what-can-you-study:
Incoming Students
Selected modules are available to incoming exchange students.
If you are applying to undertake a study period at RGU, you can only study modules from one of the courses listed.
If your Learning Agreement is not completed accurately in accordance with the following courses, this may delay a decision being taken on your application.
Please note that you cannot select from different Schools, courses or years.
We have provided pre-populated Learning Agreements to assist with this.
For detailed course content, you can find each module through our Course Information Database.
Find your course and click on the module name from the course pages to give you access to full information on the module contents including ECTS points, learning outcomes, module content and indicative workload information.
If you are coming to study for a whole year, you will be expected to undertake modules to the value of
If you are coming to study for one semester, you will be expected to undertake modules to the value of
All Exchange students are expected to have a level of competence in English to allow them to attend lectures, undertake course-work and examinations, both oral and written.
Students who require a Student Visa to study at RGU must also fulfil certain language requirements.
If your university does not have an agreement with RGU, you may apply to attend as a fee-paying exchange student, which means you would have to pay tuition fees on enrolment.
These will vary depending on your nationality and the course you wish to follow.
Details on tuition fees are available on the relevant course page.
Please note that there is no guarantee that your application will be accepted.
Find out how to apply:
Find important dates such as the start of term, exams week and graduation ceremonies:
All the details of the programmes offered by RGU, including administrative processes, courses offered, facilities and applications.
​ RGU Study Abroad - Course Catalogue PDF : 284.94 KB Download
RGU Study Abroad - Course Catalogue

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/incoming-students/apply-to-study-at-rgu-as-an-exchange-student:
Please use Firefox and Chrome browsers only.
You will have to complete the Registration before you can apply, this can be found on the right hand side of the Online Application form page.
After your application has been submitted online, it will be automatically submitted to RGU and you should receive an email within 5 working days to confirm receipt.
If you have not received an email within this timescale please check your junk email folder.
If there is not an email there, please contact us on studyabroad@rgu.ac.uk
Applications will not be considered without the required documents.
Incoming Students must complete and submit an application form and a Learning Agreement to apply for an exchange study period at RGU.
Applications can only be submitted online.
Students need to upload a letter of motivation and a transcript of records before the application can be submitted.
Other documentation may be required, depending on which academic School you are applying to.
Further information is provided in the online portal.
Once a student’s application has been accepted and processed, you will receive an email from us.
This email will include the your student reference number which will allow you to apply for accommodation online .
Please note that you cannot apply for accommodation until you have received your student reference number.
All Exchange students are expected to have a level of competence in English to allow you to attend lectures, undertake course-work and examinations, both oral and written.

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/incoming-students/before-you-arrive-incoming-exchange-students:
RGU Incoming Students - What Where When
Incoming students may require a visa to study in the UK.
It is the student's responsibility to apply and pay for the relevant visa.
It is important you leave sufficient time to complete this process as applying for a visa for the UK can take several weeks.
If you have any questions about your visa requirements for the UK please contact our immigration team at immigration@rgu.ac.uk
How to apply and which visas are required to enter the UK:
Find out more about RGU's Visa guidance:
The purpose of providing this information is to assist students in finding information about what steps need to be taken to apply for a visa to allow them to study or work in the UK and is for general information purposes only.
The information is provided by third parties not connected with Robert Gordon University and while we endeavour to keep the information up to date and correct, we make no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability or suitability of the webpage or the information, products or services on the webpage for any purpose.
Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.
In no event will Robert Gordon University be liable for any loss or damage including without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this webpage.
Through this webpage you are able to link to other websites which are not under the control of Robert Gordon University.
We have no control over the nature, content and availability of those sites.
The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorse the views expressed within them.
It is estimated that for stay in Aberdeen of 4 months, you may need approximately £3,000 and £3,500 to cover living costs depending on your individual lifestyle and the duration of your stay.
These costs would include accommodation, food, books and travel expenses.
The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020, new rules may apply.
You should check the UK Government website for information:
When making travel arrangements, students are advised to arrive Monday to Friday between the hours of 9am - 5pm.
This is preferable as staff are on site during these times and can allow you access to your accommodation.
If you think that you may arrive outside these times, you should contact the Accommodation Services who will arrange for someone to be on site at your arrival time to give you access to your accommodation.
You will be sent information on how to apply for RGU accommodation once your application has been accepted.
The taxi fare from the airport to your accommodation will cost approximately £15.00 to £30.00.
Taxis are available from outside the terminal.
The Jet Service 727 runs regularly from the airport to Union Square bus station, which is in the city centre.
Fare information and timetables are available from:
The taxi fare to Woolmanhill, Meal Market or Garthdee will cost approximately £5.00 - £12.00.
Taxis are available from inside the railway station, which is next to the bus station.
It is important for disabled students to know that adjustments can be made to facilitate your studies.
RGU's Inclusion Centre offers confidential advice and support to disabled students and prospective students.
The Inclusion Centre, part of the Student Services' Department, is validated by the Scottish Government to undertake assessment of needs and has many years' of experience of supporting students.
Further information:

New sentences found on https://rgu.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/incoming-students/nomination-form:
This form is for members of staff at our partner universities to nominate the students who will be attending RGU in the next academic year.
It is not an application form.